Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Presentation of Information
Unless the context requires otherwise, references to "Adient plc" or"Adient" refer to Adient plc and its consolidated subsidiaries for periods subsequent to its separation from Johnson Controls International plc ("the former Parent") on October 31, 2016. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the "separation" refer to the legal separation and transfer of the former Parent's automotive seating and interiors business to Adient on October 31, 2016.
Forward-Looking Statements
This section and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K") contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as "future," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "will," "would," "could," "can," "may," or similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and Adient's actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Adient cautions that these statements are subject to numerous important risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, some of which are beyond Adient’s control, that could cause Adient’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, among others, risks related to: effectively launch new business at forecasted and profitable levels, the impact of tax reform legislation through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, uncertainties in U.S. administrative policy regarding trade agreements, tariffs and other international trade relations, the ability of Adient to execute turnaround actions, the ability of Adient to identify, recruit and retain key leadership, the ability of Adient to meet debt service requirements, the ability and terms of financing, general economic and business conditions, the strength of the U.S. or other economies, automotive vehicle production levels, mix and schedules, energy and commodity prices, the availability of raw materials and component products, currency exchange rates, the ability of Adient to fully integrate the Futuris business, cancellation of or changes to commercial arrangements, and the ability of Adient Aerospace to successfully implement its strategic initiatives or realize the expected benefits of the joint venture. Additional information regarding these and other risks related to Adient’s business that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements is included in the section entitled "Risk Factors," contained in Item Part I, Item 1A of the which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of the Form 10-K. All information presented herein is based on the Adient's fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to Adient's fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Adient assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.
Separation from the former Parent
On October 31, 2016, Adient became an independent company as a result of the separation of the automotive seating and interiors business from Johnson Controls. Adient was incorporated under the laws of Ireland in fiscal 2016 for the purpose of holding these businesses. Adient's ordinary shares began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ADNT" on the New York Stock Exchange on October 31, 2016. Upon becoming an independent company, the capital structure of Adient consisted of 500 million authorized ordinary shares and 100 million authorized preferred shares (par value of $0.001 per ordinary and preferred share). The number of Adient ordinary shares issued on October 31, 2016 was 93,671,810.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 31
Adient's fiscal 2016 consolidated financial statements were prepared on a stand-alone basis derived from the former Parent's consolidated financial statements and accounting records. Therefore, the financial statements reflect, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, Adient's financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows as the business would have been historically operated as part of the former Parent prior to the separation. The financial statements may not be indicative of Adient's future performance and do not necessarily reflect what the consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had Adient operated as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented, particularly because many changes occurred in Adient's operations and capitalization as a result of the separation from the former Parent.
Adient's fiscal 2016 consolidated statement of operations includes its direct expenses for cost of goods sold, research and development, sales and marketing, distribution, and administration as well as allocations of expenses arising from shares services and infrastructure provided by the former Parent to Adient, such as information technology, accounting, legal, real estate and facilities, corporate advertising, risk and insurance services, treasury, shareholder services and other corporate and infrastructure services. These operating expenses were allocated to Adient that used estimates that were considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or benefits received by Adient.
Overview
Adient is a global leader in the automotive seating supply industry with relationships with the largest global auto manufacturers. Adient's technologies extend into virtually every area of automotive seating solutions, including complete seating systems, frames, mechanisms, foam, head restraints, armrests, trim covers and fabrics. Adient is an independent seat supplier with global scale and the capability to design, develop, engineer, manufacture and deliver complete seat systems and components in every major automotive producing region in the world. Adient also participates in the automotive interiors market primarily through its 30% equity interest in our global automotive interiors joint venture in China, Yanfeng Global Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd. (YFAI).
Adient designs, manufactures and markets a full range of seating systems and components for passenger cars, commercial vehicles and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles. Adient also supplies high performance seating systems to the international motorsports industry through its award winning RECARO brand of products. Adient operates in 234 wholly- and majority-owned manufacturing or assembly facilities, with operations in 34 countries. Additionally, Adient has partially-owned affiliates in China, Asia, Europe and North America. Through its global footprint, vertical integration and partnerships in China, Adient leverages its capabilities to drive growth in the automotive seating industry.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, Adient changed its reportable segments to Seating, Seat Structures and Mechanisms ("SS&M"), and Interiors. As a result, the prior period presentation of reportable segments has been recast to conform to the current segment reporting structure. Refer to Note 17, "Segment Information " for additional information on Adient's reportable segments.
Seating
The Seating segment produces complete seat systems for automotive and other mobility applications, as well as certain components of complete seat systems, such as foam, trim and fabric.
Seat Structures and Mechanisms
The SS&M segment produces seat structures and mechanisms for inclusion in complete seat systems that are produced by Adient or others.
Interiors
The Interiors segment, derived from Adient's global automotive interiors joint ventures, produces instrument panels, floor consoles, door panels, overhead consoles, cockpit systems, decorative trim and other products.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 32
Global Automotive Industry
Adient conducts its business globally in the automotive industry, which is highly competitive and sensitive to economic, political and social factors in the various regions. During fiscal 2018, automotive production in South America, Europe and China experienced growth at a declining rate as compared to the prior year growth rate change, Asia production was flat in the current year, and production in North America continued to experience overall decline.
Light vehicle production levels by geographic region are provided below:
Financial Results Summary
Significant aspects of Adient's financial results for fiscal 2018 include the following:
•
Adient recorded net sales of $17,439 million for fiscal 2018, representing an increase of $1.2 billion when compared to fiscal 2017. The increase in net sales is primarily due to the full year impact of Futuris operations (acquired in September 2017), the full year impact of the consolidation of a China affiliate (consolidated in July 2017) and the favorable impact of foreign currency.
•
Gross profit was $911 million, or 5% of net sales for fiscal 2018 compared to $1.4 billion, or 9% of net sales for fiscal 2017. Profitability, including gross profit as a percentage of net sales, was lower primarily due to ongoing business performance issues in both Seating and SS&M, including launch inefficiencies and premium freight, along with higher commodity prices, partially offset by the impact of the Futuris acquisition and the consolidation of a China affiliate.
•
Equity loss was $13 million for fiscal 2018, which compares to equity income of $522 million for fiscal 2017. The decrease during fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to overall lower profitability at YFAI during the current year, along with a $366 million pre-tax current year charge related to YFAI ($358 million impairment of the YFAI investment and $8 million related to U.S. tax reform legislation) and a prior year gain of $151 million on a previously held interest in a China affiliate, partially offset by higher income at non-consolidated Seating and SS&M affiliates.
•
Net loss attributable to Adient was $1,685 million for fiscal 2018, compared to $877 million of net income attributable to Adient for fiscal 2017. The net loss for fiscal 2018 is primarily attributable to overall lower profitability within Seating, SS&M and at YFAI along with $881 million of current year net-of-tax impairment charges in the SS&M business ($602 million related to long-lived assets and $279 million related to goodwill), $330 million current year net-of-tax charges related to YFAI ($322 million impairment of our YFAI investment and $8 million related to U.S. tax reform legislation), current year income tax charges of $765 million ($555 million to establish valuation allowances and $210 million for the impact of U.S. tax reform legislation) and a net-of-tax asset impairment charge of $35 million for assets held for sale.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 33
Consolidated Results of Operations
* Measure not meaningful
Net Sales
Net sales increased by $1.2 billion, or 8%, in fiscal 2018 primarily due to the full year impact of the Futuris operations (acquired in September 2017) and the full year impact of the consolidation of a China affiliate (consolidated in July 2017) of $877 million, favorable foreign currency impact of $497 million and higher volumes in Europe, partially offset by lower volumes in North America and Asia. Refer to the segment analysis below for a discussion of segment net sales.
Net sales decreased by $577 million, or 3%, in fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower volumes in North America resulting from overall economic factors, capital restraints prior to 2016 and the wind down of certain plants and related expiring programs, partially offset by higher volumes in Europe and other Asian countries corresponding to overall economic growth in those regions. Also contributing to the overall decrease was unfavorable foreign currency translation of $97 million, partially offset by the impact of the consolidation of one of our China affiliates, which added $64 million in net sales in fiscal 2017. Refer to the segment analysis below for a discussion of segment net sales.
Cost of Sales / Gross Profit
Cost of sales increased by $1.7 billion, or 12%, and gross profit decreased by $497 million, or 35%,in fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of business performance issues related to launch inefficiencies, including freight and operational waste, higher commodity costs, the full year impact of Futuris operations and the full year impact of the consolidation of a China affiliate of $764 million and an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $455 million. Cost of sales was impacted favorably by a year over year reduction
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 34
in Becoming Adient charges ($46 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $55 million in fiscal 2017). Refer to the segment analysis below for a discussion of segment profitability.
Cost of sales decreased by $376 million, or 2%, in fiscal 2017 primarily as a result of lower levels of net sales and a favorable foreign currency impact of $103 million. Gross profit decreased by $201 million, or 12% in fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher commodity costs (e.g. rising steel prices) and the effect of lower levels of net sales. Other items impacting cost of sales include, a favorable impact from pension mark-to-market of $20 million ($4 million benefit in fiscal 2017 compared to $16 million charge in fiscal 2016) resulting from higher discount rates for certain non-US pension plans, and Becoming Adient costs of $55 million. Refer to the segment analysis below for a discussion of segment profitability.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) increased by $3 million in fiscal 2018. SG&A was unfavorably impacted by $93 million of growth investments to support new business wins, the full year impact of Futuris operations and the full year impact of the consolidation of a China affiliate of $19 million and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency of $24 million, an unfavorable impact from pension mark-to-market of $19 million (a $22 million benefit in fiscal 2018 compared to a $41 million benefit in fiscal 2017), the prior year initial funding of the Adient foundation of $12 million and prior year Futuris transaction costs of $3 million, partially offset by $135 million of lower overall administrative expenses and $34 million of lower Becoming Adient and separation costs. Certain of the lower administrative expenses in fiscal 2018 related to reduced discretionary spending and lower incentive compensation levels are not anticipated to recur as part of the annual run rate of SG&A. Refer to the segment analysis below for a discussion of segment profitability.
SG&A decreased by $531 million, or 43%, in fiscal 2017. SG&A was favorably impacted by $359 million of lower separation costs, a favorable impact from pension mark-to-market of $135 million (a $41 million benefit in fiscal 2017 compared to a $94 million charge in fiscal 2016), partially offset by $40 million of Becoming Adient costs, a $24 million prior year pension credit associated with pension plans retained by the former Parent, $22 million of prior year favorable settlements from previous business divestitures, a $20 million prior year favorable legal settlement, a $13 million prior year favorable commercial settlement, the initial funding of the Adient foundation of $12 million and Futuris transaction costs of $3 million. Refer to the segment analysis below for a discussion of segment profitability.
Restructuring and Impairment Costs
* Measure not meaningful
Restructuring and impairment charges during fiscal 2018 are attributable to a $787 million long-lived asset impairment charge and a $299 million goodwill impairment charge within SS&M, a $49 million assets held for sale impairment charge and a $46 million restructuring charge. Refer to Note 2, "Acquisitions and Divestitures," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information related to the assets held for sale. Refer to Note 5, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information related to the goodwill impairment charge during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Refer to Note 14, "Restructuring and Impairment Costs," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information related to Adient's restructuring plans. Refer to Note 15, "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information related to the impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in restructuring charges during fiscal 2017 of $286 million is due to the prior year restructuring charges and impairment of information technology assets within the Seating segment. Refer to Note 14, "Restructuring and Impairment Costs," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information related to Adient's restructuring plans.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 35
Equity Income
* Measure not meaningful
Equity loss was $13 million for fiscal 2018, compared to equity income of $522 million for fiscal 2017. The decrease during fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to overall lower profitability at YFAI during the current year, along with a $366 million pre-tax current year charge related to YFAI ($358 million impairment of the YFAI investment and $8 million related to U.S. tax reform legislation) and a prior year gain of $151 million on a previously held interest in a China affiliate, partially offset by higher income at non-consolidated Seating and SS&M affiliates and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation of $17 million.
Equity income was $522 million for fiscal 2017, compared to equity income of $344 million in fiscal 2016. The increase in equity income is primarily attributable to a $151 million gain on a previously held interest in a China affiliate as mentioned above and due to overall higher income at certain Seating and SS&M affiliates in China resulting from higher automotive production levels and slightly higher income at YFAI. The increase in equity income was offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $13 million.
Net Financing Charge
* Measure not meaningful
Net financing charges increased in fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increased use of Adient's revolving credit facility during fiscal 2018. Net financing charges increased in fiscal 2017 as a result of the debt incurred and maintained in connection with the separation from the former Parent.
Income Tax Provision
* Measure not meaningful
The fiscal 2018 income tax expense of $480 million was higher than the Irish statutory rate of 12.5% primarily due to the charge to recognize the impact of U.S. tax reform legislation, repatriation of foreign earnings, and changes in uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances, partially offset by benefits from global tax planning, losses in jurisdictions subject to state and local taxation, notional interest deductions, foreign tax rate differentials, and impairment deductions.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed and enacted into law, and is effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with the exception of certain provisions. As a fiscal year taxpayer, Adient will not be subject to the majority of the provisions until fiscal year 2019, however the statutory tax rate reduction is effective January 1, 2018. The Act reduces the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Adient’s fiscal 2018 income tax expense reflects the benefit from the reduced rate of 24.5% resulting from the application of Internal Revenue Code, Section 15 which provides for a proration of the newly enacted rate during fiscal 2018. This benefit is offset by a non-cash tax expense of $106 million related to the remeasurement of Adient’s net deferred tax assets at the lower statutory rate, a non-cash estimated tax expense of $100 million related to recording a valuation allowance to reflect the reduced benefit Adient expects to realize as a result of being subject to the Base Erosion and Anti-avoidance Tax ("BEAT"), and tax expense of $4 million related to the transition tax imposed on previously untaxed earnings
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 36
and profits. Adient is projecting that it will be subject to BEAT, a parallel tax system, for the foreseeable future.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, Adient refined its estimate of the impact of the income tax effects of the Act from the previously disclosed $258 million to $210 million as discussed above, based on new information, including the full year fiscal 2018 results. Adient has completed its accounting for the deferred remeasurement and transition tax aspects of the Act. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Adient is disclosing the estimated income tax impact for the BEAT valuation allowance. Although the $100 million tax expense represents what Adient believes is a reasonable estimate of the impact of the income tax effects of the Act on its consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2018, it is a provisional amount and will be impacted by the forthcoming BEAT regulatory guidance and Adient’s on-going analysis of the legislation. Adient will continue to assess the provisions of the Act and the anticipated impact to income tax expense and will disclose the impact on its consolidated financial statements in future financial filings. Any adjustment to the provisional amount will be offset by the U.S. valuation allowance resulting in no net impact to income tax expense (benefit) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Adient reviews the realizability of its deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a review is required. In determining the requirement for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial results of the legal entity or combined group recording the net deferred tax asset are considered, along with any other positive or negative evidence. Since future financial results may differ from previous estimates, periodic adjustments to Adient's valuation allowances may be necessary. If Adient's operating performance continues to be negatively impacted and actual results differ significantly from current or prior estimates, Adient may conclude that it is more likely than not that a material portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. As such, it is possible that a change to valuation allowances in certain jurisdictions may result in a material increase to income tax expense during the next twelve months. In addition, the effective tax rate in subsequent periods would also increase.
As a result of Adient's fiscal 2018 analysis of the realizability of its worldwide deferred tax assets, and after considering tax planning initiatives and other positive and negative evidence (including the SS&M long-lived asset impairment recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018), Adient determined that it was more likely than not that deferred tax assets within the following jurisdictions would not be realized and recorded net valuation allowances as income tax expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018: Belgium ($12 million), Canada ($6 million), Germany ($175 million), Hungary ($14 million), Mexico ($117 million), Poland ($8 million), Romania ($9 million), and the U.S. ($281 million). Germany, Hungary, Mexico, Poland, Romania, and the U.S. cumulative loss positions were all adversely impacted by the SS&M performance issues and resulting long-lived asset impairment.
In addition, as a result of Adient's fiscal 2018 analysis, Adient determined that it was more likely than not that deferred tax assets within Brazil would be realized. Therefore, Adient released $76 million of valuation allowance as an income tax benefit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Adient continues to record valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets in Australia, Czech Republic, Mexico, Poland, Spain and other jurisdictions as it remains more likely than not that they will not be realized.
The fiscal 2017 income tax expense of $99 million is below the Irish statutory rate of 12.5% primarily due to benefits from global tax planning, notional interest deductions, foreign tax rate differentials, and foreign exchange, partially offset by a first quarter fiscal 2017 tax law change in Hungary, repatriation of foreign earnings, and changes in uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances.
The fiscal 2016 income tax expense of $1,839 million is above the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the tax consequences surrounding the separation ($1,891 million) and the jurisdictional mix of restructuring and impairment costs, partially offset by the benefits of continuing global tax planning initiatives and foreign tax rate differentials. The global tax planning initiatives in fiscal 2016 related primarily to Adient's portion of the former Parent's foreign tax credit planning, global financing structures and alignments of its global business functions in a tax efficient manner. Refer to Note 16, "Income Taxes," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further disclosure related to Adient's income tax provision.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 37
Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests
The decrease in income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to the impact of the U.S. tax reform at one of Adient's consolidated affiliates ($4 million) and lower income at certain Seating affiliates, partially offset by the consolidation of a Seating affiliate in China ($10 million) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2017 when compared to the prior year was primarily attributable to the consolidation of a partially-owned Seating affiliate in China.
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Adient
* Measure not meaningful
Net loss attributable to Adient was $1,685 million for fiscal 2018, compared to $877 million of net income attributable to Adient for fiscal 2017. The net loss for fiscal 2018 is primarily attributable to overall lower profitability within Seating, SS&M and at YFAI along with $881 million of current year net-of-tax impairment charges in the SS&M business ($602 million related to long-lived assets and $279 million related to goodwill), $330 million current year net-of-tax charges related to YFAI ($322 million impairment of our YFAI investment and $8 million related to U.S. tax reform legislation), current year income tax charges of $765 million ($555 million to establish valuation allowances and $210 million for the impact of U.S. tax reform legislation) and a net-of-tax asset impairment charge of $35 million for assets held for sale.
Net income attributable to Adient was $877 million fiscal 2017, which is $2,423 million higher than the prior year, despite lower profits due to lower sales volumes and higher financing costs in fiscal 2017. The overall increase was primarily due to prior year one-time income tax charges as a result of the separation, lower separation costs, lower restructuring and impairment costs, the favorable impact of pension mark-to-market adjustment, and a gain on a previously-held interest in a China affiliate, partially offset by Becoming Adient costs, favorable settlements in the prior year and other one-time costs in fiscal 2017.
Comprehensive Income Attributable to Adient
* Measure not meaningful
Comprehensive loss attributable to Adient was $1,819 million for fiscal 2018 compared to comprehensive income attributable to Adient for fiscal 2017 of $756 million. The comprehensive loss attributable to Adient for fiscal 2018 was primarily due to lower net income attributable to Adient ($2,562 million) and the favorable impact of foreign currency ($13 million). The year-over-year favorable foreign currency impact was primarily driven by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies.
The increase in comprehensive income attributable to Adient for fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher net income attributable to Adient ($2,423 million), partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation adjustments ($107 million). These year-over-year unfavorable foreign currency translation adjustments were primarily driven by the strengthening of the British pound, Canadian dollar, and Euro against the U.S. dollar.
Segment Analysis
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 38
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, Adient restructured certain of its management organization in response to the challenges faced in the seat structures and mechanisms business, resulting in a realignment of its reportable segments. Adient also began using an adjusted EBITDA metric to assess the performance of its segments and ceased allocating certain corporate-related costs to its segments. Prior period segment information has been recast to align with this change in organizational structure, the use of a new performance metric and to reflect unallocated corporate-related costs. Pursuant to this change, Adient operates in the following three reportable segments for financial reporting purposes:
•
Seating: This segment produces complete seat systems for automotive and other mobility applications, as well as certain components of complete seat systems, such as foam, trim and fabric.
•
Seat Structures & Mechanisms (SS&M): This segment produces seat structures and mechanisms for inclusion in complete seat systems that are produced by Adient or others.
•
Interiors: This segment, derived from Adient's global automotive interiors joint ventures, produces instrument panels, floor consoles, door panels, overhead consoles, cockpit systems, decorative trim and other products.
Adient evaluates the performance of its reportable segments using an adjusted EBITDA metric defined as income before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, excluding net financing charges, qualified restructuring and impairment costs, restructuring related-costs, incremental "Becoming Adient" costs, separation costs, net mark-to-market adjustments on pension and postretirement plans, transaction gains/losses, purchase accounting amortization, depreciation, stock-based compensation and other non-recurring items ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Also, certain corporate-related costs are not allocated to the segments. The reportable segments are consistent with how management views the markets served by Adient and reflect the financial information that is reviewed by its chief operating decision maker.
Financial information relating to Adient's reportable segments is as follows:
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 39
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 40
Notes:
(1)
Corporate-related costs not allocated to the segments include executive office, communications, corporate development, legal, finance and marketing. The lower levels of corporate-related costs in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily relate to reduced discretionary spending and lower levels of incentive compensation. These lower levels of expenses are not anticipated to recur as part of the annual run rate of SG&A.
(2)
Reflects incremental expenses associated with becoming an independent company.
(3)
Reflects expenses associated with and incurred prior to the separation from the former Parent.
(4)
Reflects qualified restructuring charges for costs that are directly attributable to restructuring activities and meet the definition of restructuring under ASC 420 and non-recurring impairment charges. Fiscal 2018 restructuring and impairment costs includes a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $1,086 in the SS&M business ($787 million related to long-lived assets $299 million related to goodwill), a $49 million non-cash impairment charge related to assets held for sale and a $46 million qualified restructuring charge. Refer to Note 4, "Property, Plant and Equipment," Note 5, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," Note 14, "Restructuring and Impairment Costs," and Note 15, "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Amounts in prior fiscal years relate primarily to qualified restructuring.
(5)
Reflects amortization of intangible assets including those related to partially owned affiliates recorded within equity income.
(6)
Reflects restructuring related charges for costs that are directly attributable to restructuring activities, but do not meet the definition of restructuring under ASC 420.
(7)
Reflects net mark-to-market adjustments on pension and postretirement plans.
(8)
Reflects a non-cash impairment charge related to Adient's YFAI investment balance, which has been recorded within the equity income line in the consolidated statements of income. See Note 18, "Nonconsolidated Partially-Owned Affiliates," for more information.
(9)
An amendment to the rights agreement of a seating affiliate in China was finalized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 giving Adient control of the previously non-consolidated affiliate. Adient began consolidating the entity in July 2017 and was required to apply purchase accounting, including recognizing a gain on our previously held interest, which has been recorded in equity income.
(10)
For the twelve months ended September 30, 2018, depreciation excludes $7 million, which is included in restructuring related charges discussed above. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2017, depreciation excludes $5 million which is included in Becoming Adient costs discussed above.
(11)
For the twelve months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, stock based compensation excludes $10 million and $16 million, respectively. These amounts are included in Becoming Adient costs discussed above.
(12)
The twelve months ended September 30, 2018 primarily includes $22 million integration costs associated with the acquisition of Futuris, $11 million of non-recurring consulting fees related to SS&M, and a $8 million charge related to the impact of the U.S. tax reform on YFAI. The twelve months ended September 30, 2017 primarily includes $3 million of transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Futuris and $12 million of initial funding of the Adient foundation. The twelve months ended September 30, 2016 includes a $24 million multi-employer pension credit associated with the removal of costs for pension plans that remained with the former Parent, $22 million of favorable settlements from prior year business divestitures, a $20 million favorable legal settlement and a $13 million favorable commercial settlement.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 41
Seating
Net sales increased for fiscal 2018 by $962 million due to the full year impact of Futuris operations and the full year impact of the consolidation of a China affiliate ($877 million) and the favorable impact of foreign currency ($423 million), partially offset by overall lower volumes ($256 million) and net pricing reductions ($82 million). The volume decrease was attributable to North America and Asia, partially offset by an increase in Europe.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased for fiscal 2018 by $167 million due to an increase in operating costs including increased freight, operational waste and net pricing reductions ($212 million), growth investments to support new business wins ($95 million), lower volumes in certain regions ($41 million) and unfavorable net material economics ($36 million), partially offset by the full year impact of Futuris operations and the full year impact of the consolidation of a China affiliate ($94 million), lower administrative expenses ($81 million), the favorable impact of foreign currency ($37 million) and higher equity income ($5 million).
Net sales decreased for fiscal 2017 by $583 million due to lower volumes ($577 million) and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ($70 million), partially offset by the consolidation of a China affiliate ($64 million). The decrease in volumes is primarily attributable to North America due to overall economic factors, capital constraints prior to 2016 and the wind down of certain plants and related expiring programs, partially offset by increased volumes in Europe and Asia corresponding to overall economic growth in those regions.
Adjusted EBITDA increased for 2017 by $94 million due to lower administrative expenses ($106 million), higher equity income ($30 million), net operating and commercial margin improvements ($59 million), partially offset by higher commodity costs ($52 million), lower volumes ($41 million) and unfavorable foreign currency ($8 million).
SS&M
* Measure not meaningful
Net sales increased for fiscal 2018 by $193 million due to higher volumes ($103 million), the favorable impact of foreign currency ($74 million) and certain material economic recoveries ($41 million), partially offset by net pricing reductions ($25 million). The volume increase was attributable to Europe, partially offset by decreases in North America and Asia.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased for fiscal 2018 by $250 million due to an increase in operating costs related to launch inefficiencies, premium freight, steel supply constraints and cost of customer interruptions ($200 million), unfavorable material economics, net of recoveries ($23 million), the impact of net pricing reductions ($23 million), unfavorable product mix ($7 million) and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ($5 million), partially offset by higher equity income ($6 million) and lower administrative expenses ($2 million).
Net sales decreased for fiscal 2017 by $182 million due to lower volumes ($155 million) and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ($27 million).
Adjusted EBITDA decreased for fiscal 2017 by $42 million due to higher operating costs related to launch inefficiencies, premium freight, steel supply constraints and cost of customer interruptions ($59 million), higher commodity costs ($58 million) and unfavorable product mix ($26 million), partially offset by the impact of net pricing increases ($43 million), lower administrative expenses ($42 million), higher equity income ($8 million) and the favorable impact of foreign currency ($8 million).
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 42
Interiors
Adjusted EBITDA decreased for fiscal 2018 by $31 million, primarily attributable to operational issues within the YFAI business ($34 million), unfavorable product mix and net price reductions, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency ($3 million).
Adjusted EBITDA increased for fiscal 2017 by $2 million, primarily attributable to favorable product mix, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ($3 million) and by higher costs associated with various growth investments at YFAI to enable YFAI to operate independently from its former parent companies.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Adient's primary liquidity needs are to fund general business requirements, including working capital, capital expenditures, restructuring costs, debt service requirements, share repurchases and dividends. Adient's principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operating activities, the revolving credit facility and other debt issuances, and existing cash balances. Funding also previously came from the former Parent through October 31, 2016 and as part of the separation agreement. Adient actively manages its working capital and associated cash requirements and continually seeks more effective uses of cash. Working capital is highly influenced by the timing of cash flows associated with sales and purchases, and therefore can be difficult to manage at times. See below and refer to Note 8, "Debt and Financing Arrangements," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for discussion of financing arrangements. Following the first quarter of fiscal 2019 dividend payout, Adient has suspended future dividends.
Indebtedness
On July 27, 2016, Adient Global Holdings Ltd ("AGH"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Adient, entered into a credit agreement providing for commitments with respect to a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a $1.5 billion Term Loan A facility ("Original Credit Facilities"). The Original Credit Facilities mature on July 2021. Commencing March 31, 2017 until the Term Loan A maturity date, amortization of the funded Term Loan A is required in an amount per quarter equal to 0.625% of the original principal amount in the first year following the closing date of the credit facilities on July 27, 2016 ("Closing Date"), 1.25% in each quarter of the second and third years following the Closing Date, and 2.5% in each quarter thereafter prior to final maturity. The Original Credit Facilities contained covenants that include, among other things and subject to certain significant exceptions, restrictions on Adient's ability to declare or pay dividends, make certain payments in respect of the notes, create liens, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, enter into agreements restricting Adient's subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with any other person. In addition, the Original Credit Facilities contain a financial maintenance covenant requiring Adient to maintain a total net leverage ratio equal to or less than 3.5x adjusted EBITDA calculated on a quarterly basis. The Term Loan A facility also requires mandatory prepayments in connection with certain non-ordinary course asset sales and insurance recovery and condemnation events, among other things, and subject in each case to certain significant exceptions. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019,Adient entered into an amendment to the Original Credit Facilities (“Amended Credit Facilities") whereby the financial maintenance covenant was amended to require Adient to maintain a total net leverage ratio equal to or less than 4.5x adjusted EBITDA, effective September 30, 2018 with step down provisions starting in the quarter ending December 31, 2020. The amendment also expanded the upper range of interest rate margins such that the drawn portion of the Amended Credit Facilities will bear interest based on LIBOR plus a margin between 1.25% - 2.50% (previously 1.25% - 2.25%), based on Adient’s total net leverage ratio. No other terms were impacted by the amendment.
The full amount of the Term Loan A facility was drawn down in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. These funds were transferred to the former Parent at the time of the draw down and were reflected within net transfers to the former Parent in the consolidated statement of cash flow during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. In February 2017, Adient repaid $100 million of the Term Loan A facility. In May 2017, Adient repaid another $200 million of the Term Loan A facility. The total amount repaid was treated as a prepayment of the quarterly mandatory principle amortization for the period between March 2017 and June 2020 resulting in no required principal payment until June 2020.
AGH will pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the commitments under the revolving credit facility based on the total net leverage ratio of Adient, ranging from 0.15% to 0.40%. No amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 43
On August 19, 2016, AGH issued $0.9 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.875% USD-denominated unsecured notes due 2026 and €1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.50% unsecured notes due 2024, in a private offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The proceeds of the notes were used, together with the Term Loan A facility, to pay a distribution to the former Parent, with the remaining proceeds used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
On May 29, 2017, Adient Germany Ltd. & Co. KG, a wholly owned subsidiary of Adient, borrowed €165 million in an unsecured term loan from the European Investment Bank due in 2022. The loan bears interest at the 6-month EURIBOR rate plus 90 basis points. Loan proceeds were used to repay $200 million of the Term Loan A.
Sources of Cash Flows
Cash flows from operating activities
Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017: The decrease in operating cash flows is primarily attributable to overall lower levels of profitability, partially offset by favorable changes in working capital, specifically higher levels of accounts payable, lower levels of accounts receivable and lower year over year cash outlays associated with established restructuring plans, partially offset by an increase in inventory. See also the working capital section below for further information on changes in working capital.
Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016: The increase in cash from operating activities was primarily due to higher profitability resulting from the significant non-recurring tax charges ($1,891 million) in fiscal 2016. Excluding the non-recurring tax charge, cash from operating activities decreased due to unfavorable changes in working capital primarily attributable to cash outlays associated with established restructuring plans and timing of accounts payable outflows, partially offset by higher levels of dividends from non-consolidated partially owned affiliates.
Cash flows from investing activities
Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017: The decrease in cash used by investing activities is primarily attributable to the prior year net cash outflow of $247 million for the acquisition of Futuris and the consolidation of our China affiliate along with lower levels of capital expenditures in the current year due to the timing of capital investment needs based primarily on the timing and ramp up of product launches. See below for further discussion of capital expenditures.
Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016: The increase in cash used by investing activities was primarily due to the $247 million, net of cash acquired, related to the acquisition of Futuris and the consolidation of our China affiliate along with higher capital expenditures during fiscal 2017, partially offset by $18 million of proceeds in fiscal 2016 from a business divestiture completed in fiscal 2015. See below for further discussion of capital expenditures.
Cash flows from financing activities
Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017: The decrease in cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to funding by the former Parent during fiscal 2017 to fund working capital, capital expenditures and establish opening cash balances for Adient at October 31, 2016 along with increased levels of dividends paid to noncontrolling interests.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 44
Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016: The decrease in cash from financing activities was primarily due to the issuance of $1.5 billion Term Loan A during fiscal 2016, the repayment of $300 million of Term Loan A during fiscal 2017, $52 million used to pay dividends and $40 million used to repurchase ordinary shares during fiscal 2017, partially offset by the new European term loan and amounts funded by the former Parent during fiscal 2017 to fund working capital, capital expenditures and establish opening cash balances for Adient at October 31, 2016.
Capital expenditures
Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017: The decrease in capital expenditures was primarily related to prior year capital investments associated with becoming an independent company, current year timing of launches and tightening controls around overall spending.
Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016: The increase in capital expenditures was primarily related to capital investments associated with becoming an independent company and to increased program spending on product launches.
Working capital
The decrease in working capital of $54 million is primarily attributable to lower levels of accounts receivable and other current assets including tooling receivables, along with higher levels of accounts payable, partially offset by lower levels of accrued compensation, lower restructuring reserves and increased levels of inventory as of September 30, 2018.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Adient enters into supply chain financing programs in certain foreign jurisdictions to sell accounts receivable without recourse to third-party financial institutions. Sales of accounts receivable are reflected as a reduction of accounts receivable on the consolidated statements of financial position and the proceeds are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, Adient entered into an additional €200 million accounts receivable transfer and servicing arrangement. As of September 30, 2018, $142 million has been funded under the program.
Contractual Obligations
A summary of Adient's significant contractual obligations as of September 30, 2018:
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 45
Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited)
The following tables present Adient's unaudited quarterly results of operations for each of the eight fiscal quarters in the period ended September 30, 2018. The following tables should be read in conjunction with Adient's audited consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Adient has prepared the information below on a basis consistent with its audited consolidated financial statements and has included all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, which, in the opinion of Adient's management, are necessary to fairly state its operating results for the quarters presented. Adient's historical unaudited quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarter or for a full year.
Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices
The effects of inflation have not been significant to Adient's results of operations in recent years.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 46
Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Adient prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). This requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following policies are considered by management to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in the preparation of Adient's consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties that could impact results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
Revenue Recognition
Adient records revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery occurs or services are rendered, the sales price or fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Adient delivers products and records revenue pursuant to commercial agreements with its customers generally in the form of an approved purchase order, including the effects of contractual customer price productivity. Adient does negotiate discrete price changes with its customers, which are generally the result of unique commercial issues between Adient and its customers. Adient records amounts associated with discrete price changes as a reduction to revenue when specific facts and circumstances indicate that a price reduction is probable and the amounts are reasonably estimable. Adient records amounts associated with discrete price changes as an increase to revenue upon execution of a legally enforceable contractual agreement and when collectability is reasonable assured. Refer to Note 1, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding Adient's adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
Impairment of Goodwill, Other Long-lived Assets and Investments in Partially Owned Affiliates
Goodwill reflects the cost of an acquisition in excess of the fair values assigned to identifiable net assets acquired. Adient reviews goodwill for impairment during the fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the asset might be impaired. Adient performs impairment reviews for its reporting units, which have been determined to be Adient's reportable segments, using a fair value method based on management's judgments and assumptions or third party valuations. The fair value of a reporting unit refers to the price that would be received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In estimating the fair value, Adient uses multiples of earnings based on the average of historical, published multiples of earnings of comparable entities with similar operations and economic characteristics. In certain instances, Adient uses discounted cash flow analyses or estimated sales price to further support the fair value estimates. The inputs utilized in the analyses are classified as Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy as defined in ASC 820, "Fair Value Measurement." These calculations contain uncertainties as they require management to make assumptions about market comparables, future cash flows, the appropriate discount rate (based on weighted average cost of capital) and growth rate to reflect the risk inherent in the future cash flows. The estimated future cash flows reflect management's latest assumptions of the financial projections based on current and anticipated competitive landscape and product profitability based on historical trends. A change in any of these estimates and assumptions could produce a different fair value, which could have a material impact on Adient's results of operations. The estimated fair value is then compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including recorded goodwill. Adient is subject to financial statement risk to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value. As a result of the change in reportable segments during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, Adient conducted a goodwill impairment analyses of the newly allocated goodwill balances under the new reportable segment structure and determined that goodwill associated with the SS&M reportable segment was fully impaired. Consequently, a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $299 million was recognized in the consolidated statements of income (loss) within the restructuring and impairment costs line item. Refer to Note 5, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Adient reviews long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets with definite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. Adient conducts its long-lived asset impairment analyses in accordance with ASC 360-10-15, "Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." ASC 360-10-15 requires Adient to group assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities and evaluate the asset group against the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows. If the undiscounted cash flows do not indicate the carrying amount of the asset is recoverable, an impairment charge is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis or appraisals. Intangible assets with indefinite lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment testing if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. A considerable amount of management judgment and assumptions are required in performing the impairment tests. In fiscal 2018, Adient concluded it had triggering events requiring assessment of impairment for the SS&M long-lived assets. As a result, Adient reviewed the long-lived assets for impairment and recorded a $787 million impairment charge within restructuring and impairment costs on the consolidated statements of income (loss). The impairment charge related to long-lived assets that were in use in North America and Europe asset groups as of September 30, 2018 in support of current programs. The impairment was measured, depending on
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 47
the asset, either under an income approach utilizing forecasted discounted cash flows or a market approach utilizing appraisal techniques to determine fair values of the impaired assets. These methods are consistent with the methods Adient employed in prior periods to value other long-lived assets. The inputs utilized in the analyses are classified as Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy as defined in ASC 820, "Fair Value Measurement" and primarily consist of expected future operating margins and cash flows, estimated production volumes, weighted average cost of capital rates (13.0%), estimated salable values and third-party appraisal techniques such as market comparables. To the extent that profitability on current or future programs decline as compared to forecasted profitability or if adverse changes occur to key assumptions or other fair value measurement inputs, further impairment of long-lived assets could occur in the future. Refer to Note 15, "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Adient monitors its investments in partially-owned affiliates for indicators of other-than-temporary declines in value on an ongoing basis. If Adient determines that an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred, it recognizes an impairment loss, which is measured as the difference between the recorded book value and the fair value of the investment. Fair value is generally determined using an income approach based on discounted cash flows or negotiated transaction values. During fiscal 2018, Adient concluded it had an other-than-temporary decline in value related to its investment in YFAI and recorded a $358 million impairment charge. The impairment was measured under an income approach utilizing discounted cash flows to derive a fair value of our investment in YFAI. Based on the fair value, the carrying value of the investment in YFAI exceeded fair value by $358 million, and as such Adient recorded a non-cash impairment charge within equity income in the consolidated statements of income (loss) for that amount in the fourth quarter of 2018. The inputs utilized in the analyses are classified as Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy as defined in ASC 820, "Fair Value Measurement" and primarily consist of expected future operating margins and cash flows of YFAI, estimated production volumes, weighted average cost of capital (12.5%) and noncontrolling interest discounts. To the extent that profitability continues to decline as compared to forecasted profitability or if adverse changes occur to key assumptions or other fair value measurement inputs, further impairment of Adient's YFAI investment could occur in the future.Refer to Note 18, "Nonconsolidated Partially-Owned Affiliates," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Employee Benefit Plans
Adient provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pensions and postretirement benefits. These benefits are Adient's direct obligation and have been recorded within Adient's historical consolidated financial statements. Plan assets and obligations are measured annually, or more frequently if there is a remeasurement event, based on Adient's measurement date utilizing various actuarial assumptions such as discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates as of that date. Adient reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when appropriate.
Adient utilizes a mark-to-market approach for recognizing pension and postretirement benefit expenses, including measuring the market related value of plan assets at fair value and recognizing actuarial gains and losses in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or at the date of a remeasurement event.
U.S. GAAP requires that companies recognize in the statement of financial position a liability for defined benefit pension and postretirement plans that are underfunded or unfunded, or an asset for defined benefit pension and postretirement plans that are overfunded. U.S. GAAP also requires that companies measure the benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets that determine a benefit plan's funded status as of the date of the employer's fiscal year end.
Adient considers the expected benefit payments on a plan-by-plan basis when setting assumed discount rates. As a result, Adient uses different discount rates for each plan depending on the plan jurisdiction, the demographics of participants and the expected timing of benefit payments. For the U.S. pension and postretirement plans, Adient uses a discount rate provided by an independent third party calculated based on an appropriate mix of high quality bonds. For the non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans, Adient consistently uses the relevant country specific benchmark indices for determining the various discount rates. Adient's discount rate on U.S. pension plans was 4.29% and 3.85% at September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Adient's discount rate on U.S. postretirement plans was NA and 3.50% at September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Adient's weighted average discount rate on non-U.S. plans was 2.63% and 2.60% at September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In estimating the expected return on plan assets, Adient considers the historical returns on plan assets, adjusted for forward-looking considerations, inflation assumptions and the impact of the active management of the plans' invested assets. The long-term rates of return for prior periods were determined based on former Parent assumptions. Reflecting the relatively long-term nature of the plans' obligations, approximately 55% of the plans' assets are invested in fixed income securities and 16% in equity securities, with the remainder primarily invested in alternative investments. For fiscal years 2018 and 2017, Adient's expected long-term return on U.S. pension plan assets used to determine net periodic benefit cost was 5.15% and 5.50% respectively. The actual rate of return on U.S. pension plans was below 5.15% in fiscal 2018 and above 5.50% in fiscal 2017. For fiscal years 2018 and 2017,
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 48
Adient's weighted average expected long-term return on non-U.S. pension plan assets was 4.19% and 3.80%, respectively. The actual rate of return on non-U.S. pension plans was below 4.19% in fiscal 2018 and was above 3.80% in fiscal 2017. For fiscal years 2018 and 2017, Adient's weighted average expected long-term return on postretirement plan assets was NA and 3.35%, respectively. The actual rate of return on postretirement plan assets was above NA in fiscal 2018 and was above 3.35% in fiscal 2017.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, Adient estimates the long-term rate of return will approximate 5.15%, 4.19% and 3.75% for U.S. pension, non-U.S. pension and postretirement plans, respectively. Any differences between actual investment results and the expected long-term asset returns will be reflected in net periodic benefit costs in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. If Adient's actual returns on plan assets are less than Adient's expectations, additional contributions may be required.
In fiscal 2018, total Adient contributions to the defined benefit pension plans were $12 million. Adient expects to contribute at least $19 million in cash to its defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2019. In fiscal 2018, total Adient contributions to the postretirement plans were not significant. Adient does not expect to make significant contributions to its postretirement plans in fiscal 2019.
Based on information provided by its independent actuaries and other relevant sources, Adient believes that the assumptions used are reasonable; however, changes in these assumptions could impact Adient's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Refer to Note 13, "Retirement Plans," of the notes to consolidated audited financial statements for Adient's pension and postretirement benefit plans.
Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and other loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Adient records a valuation allowance that primarily represents operating and other loss carryforwards for which realization is uncertain. Management judgment is required in determining Adient's provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and the valuation allowance recorded against Adient's net deferred tax assets.
Adient reviews the realizability of its deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a review is required. In determining the requirement for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial results of the legal entity or combined group recording the net deferred tax asset are considered, along with any other positive or negative evidence. Since future financial results may differ from previous estimates, periodic adjustments to Adient's valuation allowances may be necessary.
Adient is subject to income taxes in Ireland, the U.S. and other non-U.S. jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of Adient's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Adient's income tax returns for various fiscal years remain under audit by the respective tax authorities. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, management believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its annual tax provisions included amounts sufficient to pay assessments, if any, which may be proposed by the taxing authorities. Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.
Adient does not generally provide for additional income taxes which would become payable upon repatriation of undistributed earnings of wholly owned foreign subsidiaries. Adient's intent is for such earnings to be reinvested by the subsidiaries or to be repatriated only when it would be tax efficient.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act") was signed and enacted into law, and is effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with the exception of certain provisions. The Act includes a provision to tax global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") of foreign subsidiaries, which will be effective for Adient beginning in fiscal year 2019. Adient has made a policy election to treat taxes due under the GILTI provision as a current period expense in the reporting period in which the tax is incurred.
Refer to Note 16, "Income Taxes," of the notes to consolidated audited financial statements for Adient's income tax disclosures.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 49
Restructuring
Adient accrues costs in connection with its restructuring actions. These accruals include estimates primarily related to employee headcount, local statutory benefits, and other employee termination costs. Actual costs may vary from these estimates. These accruals are reviewed on a quarterly basis and changes to restructuring actions are appropriately recognized when identified. Refer to Note 14, “Restructuring and Impairment Costs,” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information.
Adient committed to a restructuring plan in fiscal 2018 to drive cost efficiencies and to balance our global production against demand and recorded $71 million of restructuring costs in the consolidated statement of income that was offset by underspend in prior years by $25 million. The restructuring actions related to cost reduction initiatives in the Seating and SS&M segments. The costs consist primarily of workforce reductions and plant closures. Adient currently estimates that upon completion of the restructuring actions, the fiscal 2018 restructuring plan will reduce annual operating costs by approximately $65 million, which is primarily the result of lower costs of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses due to reduced employee-related costs, of which approximately 55% will result in net savings. The restructuring actions are expected to be substantially complete in fiscal 2019. The restructuring plan reserve balance of $48 million at September 30, 2018 is expected to be paid in cash.
Adient committed to a restructuring plan in fiscal 2017 to drive cost efficiencies and to balance our global production against demand and recorded $46 million of restructuring and impairment costs in the consolidated statement of income. The restructuring actions related to cost reduction initiatives in the Seating segment. The costs consist primarily of workforce reductions and plant closures. Adient currently estimates that upon completion of the restructuring actions, the fiscal 2017 restructuring plan will reduce annual operating costs by approximately $40 million, which is primarily the result of lower cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses due to reduced employee-related costs, of which approximately 55%-60% will result in net savings. Adient partially achieved these savings in fiscal years 2017 and 2018. The restructuring actions are expected to be substantially complete in fiscal 2019. The restructuring plan reserve balance of $12 million at September 30, 2018 is expected to be paid in cash.
Adient committed to a restructuring plan in fiscal 2016 (the "2016 Plan") to drive cost efficiencies and to balance our global production against demand and recorded $332 million of restructuring and impairment costs in the consolidated statement of income. The restructuring actions related to cost reduction initiatives primarily in the Seating and SS&M segments. The costs consist primarily of workforce reductions, plant closures and asset impairments. Adient currently estimates that upon completion of the restructuring actions, the fiscal 2016 restructuring plan will reduce annual operating costs by approximately $150 million, which is primarily the result of lower cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses due to reduced employee-related costs and depreciation expense, of which approximately 70%-75% will result in net savings. Adient partially achieved these savings in fiscal years 2016 through 2018, with the full benefit expected in fiscal 2019. The restructuring actions are expected to be substantially complete in fiscal 2021. The restructuring plan reserve balance of $75 million at September 30, 2018 is expected to be paid in cash.
Since the announcement of the 2016 Plan in fiscal 2016, Adient has experienced lower employee severance and termination benefit cash payouts than previously calculated of approximately $20 million, due to changes in cost reduction actions. The planned workforce reductions disclosed for the 2016 Plan have been updated for Adient's revised actions.
New Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 1, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.
Adient plc | Form 10-K | 50
Item 7A.