Item 2. Properties.
As of December 31, 2018, the following table presents an overview of our resorts and is organized by our four geographic business segments: the Yucatán Peninsula, the Pacific Coast, the Dominican Republic and Jamaica.
(1) Pursuant to an agreement with Panama Jack, we rebranded these resorts as Panama Jack resorts in 2017.
(2) Pursuant to an agreement with Hilton, we rebranded these resorts as Hilton all-inclusive resorts in November 2018. The resorts are still owned and operated by Playa.
(3) Effective November 20, 2018, this resort was rebranded into two resorts under the Brand. We have planned renovations for 2019.
(4) Owned by a third party.
(5) We acquired an 88-unit tower and spa as part of our acquisition of the Sagicor Assets. Additionally, we manage the majority of the units within the remaining two condo-hotel towers owned by Sagicor that comprise the Jewel Grande Montego Bay Resort & Spa.
Description of Our Resorts
Playa’s Resorts in Mexico
Hyatt Ziva Cancún
Located 15 minutes from the Cancún International Airport, Hyatt Ziva Cancún is a uniquely located all-ages resort on the Yucatán peninsula at the shore point known as Punta Cancún. Following an extensive $80.8 million expansion and renovation, the resort opened in November 2015. Designed by award-winning Mexican architect Ricardo Legorreta, the resort is surrounded on three sides by water and offers direct access to three unique pristine beaches. This resort features 547 suites ranging in size from 463 to 4,381 square feet and offers over 10,700 square feet of state-of-the-art meeting and convention space, including a ballroom that can accommodate groups of up to 500 people. The surrounding grounds have been renovated with new pools, spa and fitness facilities, food and beverage outlets and additional public areas. Other new amenities include gourmet dinners in showcase venues, swim-up suites and experienced on-site event planning professionals who can organize upgrades that are responsive to a guest’s needs. The resort has received the AAA Four Diamond Award every year since 2016. The resort received Green Globe certification in 2018 and is now considered an “eco-friendly” resort under the third-party guidelines.
Hyatt Zilara Cancún
Hyatt Zilara Cancún is an adults-only luxury resort situated in the heart of Cancún’s hotel zone, approximately 15 minutes from the Cancún International Airport. Formerly THE Royal Cancún, this resort offers 600 feet of beach frontage and is in walking distance to Cancún’s shopping areas and nightlife. It offers swim-up suites and a newly renovated full-service three-story spa. This 307-room resort also offers nine restaurants, seven bars, a two-story fitness center, gift shops, billiards and an Olympic-size oceanfront infinity pool. With 6,781 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 700 people. It has received the AAA Four Diamond Award every year since 2011 and in 2018 was awarded Green Globe certification for the work done to support the environment and the local community. The resort was awarded a Silver Travvy for Best Spa & Wellness Hotel/Resort: Mexico in 2019.
Panama Jack Resorts Cancún
Panama Jack Resorts Cancún is an all-ages resort situated in Cancún’s hotel zone approximately 15 minutes from the Cancun International Airport. The resort features 650 feet of beach frontage and is a short walk from Cancun’s shopping and nightlife. Following a $13.2 million dollar renovation, the resort was rebranded to Panama Jack Resorts in 2017 following the execution of a licensing agreement with lifestyle brand, Panama Jack. This 458-room resort offers two distinctly different pools, a water park, kids club and teen club and daily supervised recreational activities for all ages. The resort offers a variety of restaurants with eight food and beverage outlets and eight bars and lounges. In addition to a newly renovated fitness center, the resort also has full-service spa, a Panama Jack branded gift shop and business center. With 9,720 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 800 people. The resort also houses the only oceanfront Catholic Chapel in Cancun, Our Lady of Guadeloupe. Panama Jack Resorts has received Green Globe certification in 2018, a third-party validation which certifies the resort is working toward positive environmental and social change. The same year, Panama Jack Resorts Cancún was awarded a gold Magellan for the Eco-Friendly “Green” Resort, Overall.
Hilton Playa del Carmen All-Inclusive Resort
Hilton Playa del Carmen All-Inclusive Resort is an adults-only luxury resort in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. This 513-room all-suite resort offers 500 feet of beach frontage and 13 bars and restaurants with diverse international themes. The resort includes a recently renovated fitness center, a full-service spa, beauty salon and an Olympic-size pool. With 6,888 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 800 people. The resort is located blocks from Playa del Carmen’s “Fifth-Avenue,” which is home to nightclubs, retail shops and cafés. The resort is within walking distance from the port which provides ferry services to Cozumel. Following the announcement of a strategic alliance with Hilton in 2018, the resort was rebranded from THE Royal to Hilton Playa del Carmen All-Inclusive Resort. The resort was voted a 2018 Readers Choice Award winner by Conde Nast Traveler and the 2019 TripAdvisor Travelers Choice Award. It has also received the AAA Four Diamond Award every year since 2011 and received Green Globe certification in 2018.
Panama Jack Resorts Playa del Carmen
Panama Jack Resorts Playa del Carmen is an all-ages resort situated in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. The resort features 650 feet of beach frontage and is approximately 30 minutes from the Cancún International Airport. This 287-room resort offers eight food and beverage outlets and seven bars and lounges. The recently renovated property touts two distinctly different pools, a completely
renovated fitness center, full-service spa, teens club, kids club and wedding gazebo. With 1,755 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 150 people. Pursuant to an agreement with Panama Jack, the resort was rebranded and completely renovated with a completion date of December 2018. It is located in walking distance to Playa del Carmen’s “Fifth-Avenue” shops and the port that provides ferry services to Cozumel. The resort received Green Globe certification in 2018 and is now considered an “eco-friendly” resort under the third-party guidelines.
Secrets Capri
Secrets Capri is an adults-only luxury resort situated in the Riviera Maya, Playa del Carmen, Mexico, which has received the AAA Four Diamond Award every year from 2007 through 2018. It also received TripAdvisor’s Certificate of Excellence in 2015. It features 650 feet of beach frontage and is located five minutes by car from the shops at Playa del Carmen and 35 minutes by car from Cancún International Airport. The 291-room resort offers a fitness center, spa, beauty salon, deep sea fishing, private tennis clinics and a music lounge. The resort has seven food and beverage outlets, with diverse international themes, and four bars and lounges. The resort also features complimentary golf at Playa Mujeres Golf Club and Cancún Golf Club at Pok-ta-Pok. With 4,134 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 350 people.
Dreams Puerto Aventuras
Dreams Puerto Aventuras is an all-ages resort located within a gated marina community situated close to Playa del Carmen on the Mexican coast of the Yucatán Peninsula. The resort features 800 feet of beach frontage. This 305-room resort offers one of the largest dolphinariums in the Riviera Maya, fitness center, spa and beauty salon, indoor theater, kids club, salt water pool, adults-only pool and jacuzzi. This resort also offers a Gold Palm Certified PADI diving center, galleria market shops at the marina community and a golf course. The resort has six food and beverage outlets, with diverse international themes, and five bars and lounges. With 2,024 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 120 people. The resort also has an indoor theatre that can accommodate groups of up to 250 people.
Hyatt Ziva Los Cabos
Hyatt Ziva Los Cabos is an all-ages resort located in San Jose del Cabo, offering spectacular views of the Sea of Cortez. This all-suite resort features 650 feet of beach frontage and is 20 minutes from Los Cabos International Airport. Hyatt Ziva Los Cabos offers 591 suites ranging from a 550 square-foot junior suite to a 1,950 square-foot Presidential Suite. The resort also offers swim-up suites, a fitness center, a business center, a large theater presenting live music and nightly shows, a kids club with water park, a teen zone, tennis and basketball courts, three large scale pools and a full-service spa. It also features eight food and beverage outlets and four bars and lounges. With more than 35,000 square feet of state-of-the-art meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 1,100 people. The resort has been recognized with AAA Four Diamond status every year since in 2014. It has also received TripAdvisor’s Certificate of Excellence every year since 2015. Hyatt Ziva Los Cabos received Green Globe certification in 2018, a third-party validation which certifies the resort is working toward positive environmental and social change and is considered an “eco-friendly” resort as a result herein.
Hyatt Ziva Puerto Vallarta
Hyatt Ziva Puerto Vallarta is an all-ages resort situated in Puerto Vallarta’s Conchas Chinas with the only private beach, known as Las Estacas, offering 1,250 feet of private beach frontage. Located five minutes from downtown Puerto Vallarta, the resort opened in December 2014 under the Hyatt Ziva brand after an extensive $15.9 million expansion and renovation of the former Dreams. The all-suite resort’s 335 suites range from 473 to 1,500 square feet and tout significant room renovations and upgrades including new swim-up suites. The resort features a new lobby and public areas, three new food and beverage outlets and a new upscale oceanfront spa. The resort offers state-of-the-art business facilities, with available meeting and convention space exceeding 9,900 square feet that can accommodate groups of up to 900 people. The resort has been awarded the AAA Four Diamond Award every year since 2015 and in 2018 received Green Globe certification.
Playa’s Resorts in the Dominican Republic
Hilton La Romana All-Inclusive Resorts
The previously flagged Dreams La Romana was rebranded into two resorts under the Brand in November 2018. The Hilton La Romana All-Inclusive Family Resort and the Hilton La Romana All-Inclusive Adult Resort are located in the Bayahibe section of La Romana in the Dominican Republic and offer a combined 756 rooms on 1,500 feet of beach frontage. The two resorts feature 10 food and beverage outlets with diverse international themes and seven bars and lounges. Additional amenities include four infinity pools, a casino, a full-service spa, a fitness center, an outdoor theater, kids club, teen club and a PADI diving center. The
resorts also offer three golf courses designed by the architect Pete B. Dye. With the only convention center in Bayahibe, featuring 11,072 square feet of meeting space, these resorts can accommodate groups of up to 975 people. Nearby attractions include Altos de Chavon, Saona, Catalina Islands and shopping. In 2018, this resort received the Trip Advisor Traveler’s Choice award.
Dreams Palm Beach
Dreams Palm Beach is an all-ages resort situated in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic that has received the AAA Four Diamond Award every year since 2011. This resort features 650 feet of beach frontage and is located 20 minutes by car from Punta Cana International Airport. This 500-room resort offers three outdoor pools, a renovated spa, a casino, horseback riding, children’s club, teens’ club, an indoor theater and a music lounge. It also offers access to two golf courses that are 15 minutes by car from the resort. The resort has seven food and beverage outlets, with diverse international themes, and five bars and lounges. With 7,856 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 760 people.
Playa’s prior parent acquired Dreams Palm Beach, formerly the Allegro Punta Cana, in 2007 for $52 million, or $104,000 per room. Following the acquisition, Playa invested $30 million, or $60,000 per room, to rebrand the property as Dreams Palm Beach and expand, renovate and reposition the resort, including expansion of the lobby and addition of a casino, convention center, restaurant and bars. Playa also renovated the existing building, public areas and all of the rooms. Following a six-month renovation in 2008, Net Package RevPAR (as defined in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) increased from $98 in 2009 to $131 in 2013, an increase of 33.8%.
Dreams Punta Cana
Dreams Punta Cana is an all-ages resort situated on Uvero Alto on the northeast coast of the Dominican Republic. This resort has received the AAA Four Diamond Award every year from 2011 through 2018. It features 650 feet of beach frontage. This 620-room resort offers a free-form pool, night club, oceanfront bars, kids club, teen club, spa, fitness center, indoor theater, shopping galleria and supervised daily children’s activities. It also offers a PADI diving center, casino, horseback riding and a large meeting space for group activities. The resort has six food and beverage outlets, with diverse international themes, and ten bars and lounges. With 4,133 square feet of meeting space, the resort can accommodate groups of up to 300 people.
Playa’s Resorts in Jamaica
Hyatt Ziva Rose Hall and Hyatt Zilara Rose Hall
Hyatt Ziva Rose Hall is a AAA Four Diamond Resort catering to guests of all ages. The resort which reopened in 2014 under the Hyatt Ziva brand includes 276 suites including premium swim up suites, with oversized terraces featuring garden or ocean views. With 25,000 square feet of beach frontage, the resort also provides guests access to pools, a swim-up bar and a daily activity schedule which includes non-motorized water sports. The resort opened a brand new two-story fitness center in 2018 and offers guest access to a full-service spa and beauty salon. The resort houses seven food and beverage outlets and six bars and lounges for guests to choose from. In 2018, Hyatt Ziva Rose Hall was certified by Green Globe as an eco-friendly resort.
Reopened under the Hyatt Zilara brand in 2014, Hyatt Zilara Rose Hall is a AAA Four Diamond Resort catering to adults. Located on the coast and overlooking the Jamaican Blue Mountains, this resort has 344 guest suites, including 61 swim-up suites. Hyatt Zilara Rose Hall features five food and beverage outlets including bars and lounges. In addition to having access to the adjacent Hyatt Ziva restaurants and amenities, guests of Hyatt Zilara Rose Hall can enjoy adult-oriented amenities, including a private beach, contemporary private pools, a pool bar, a fitness center inclusive of tennis courts and dedicated spa renovated in 2017. Hyatt Zilara Rose Hall was recognized in 2015 by Caribbean Journal as one of the top 13 all-inclusive resorts in the Caribbean. The resort also received the Magellan Gold Grand Opening Award from Travel Weekly in 2016 and a Silver Travvy in 2019 for Best All-Inclusive Resort for Honeymoons. The resort also received the distinction of becoming a Green Globe certified resort in 2018.
Hilton Rose Hall Resort & Spa
Acquired from Sagicor in June 2018, Hilton Rose Hall Resort & Spa is a 495-room all-ages resort situated on the legendary 18th century Rose Hall Estate and Cinnamon Hill Golf Course in Montego Bay. Fifteen minutes from Sangster International Airport, Hilton Rose Hall Resort & Spa offers guest 2,500 feet of private beach frontage, two pools inclusive of a water park with a lazy river and a robust kids and teen zone. The resort also has an oceanfront spa and fitness center. The resort has seven food and beverage outlets and six bars and lounges. With 44,000 square feet of modern indoor and outdoor event space, Hilton Rose Hall Resort & Spa can accommodate groups up to 800 guests. Hilton Rose Hall Resort & Spa was awarded the Travelers Choice Award from TripAdvisor in 2018 and 2019.
Jewel Runaway Bay Beach & Golf Resort
Acquired as part of the Sagicor transaction in June 2018, Jewel Runaway Bay Beach & Golf Resort is an all ages resort is surrounded by 22 acres of lush landscaping and is home to an 18-hole 72 par Runaway Bay Golf Club. The resort has 268 rooms with square footage ranging from 300 to 475, including 62 connecting rooms, ideal for families. The resort which is home to the largest waterpark in Jamaica, also offers amenities such as a kids club including a recording studio, teens club and nightly theatre-style entertainment. Jewel Runaway Bay Beach & Golf Resort has eight food and beverage outlets and six bars and lounges, including dinner shows and non-traditional dining options. Catering to leisure guests, the resort includes a full-service spa, fitness center and beauty salon on premises. Conference facilities can accommodate groups ranging from 12 to 250 people. The resort was awarded the 2019 Travelers Choice Award from TripAdvisor.
Jewel Dunn’s River Beach Resort & Spa
Jewel Dunn’s River Beach Resort & Spa is a 250-room, adults-only resort, one mile away from Dunn’s River Falls, one of Jamaica’s most popular tourist attractions. Playa acquired this resort from Sagicor in June 2018. Resort amenities include two pools with swim-up bar, water sports, spa, fitness center and basketball, volleyball and tennis courts. The property features six gourmet food and beverage outlets and five bars and lounges including a nightclub. Well-appointed conference facilities can accommodate groups up to 300 people.
Jewel Paradise Cove Beach Resort & Spa
Jewel Paradise Cove Beach Resort & Spa is a 225-room, adults-only resort. Playa acquired this resort from Sagicor in June 2018. The resort’s amenities include three pools with swim-up bar, three whirlpools, three tennis courts, a fitness center and Jamaica’s only oceanfront two-story spa. The property offers seven restaurants and six bars including a nightclub plus 3,000 square feet of meeting facilities accommodating smaller meeting and incentive groups up to 150 people.
Resorts Playa Manages for Third Parties
Sanctuary Cap Cana
In September 2017, Playa entered into a long-term agreement to manage Sanctuary Cap Cana in the Dominican Republic. The management contract term is 15 years with two optional extensions of five years. In connection with the execution of the management contract, we acquired the rights that the owner of the resort had to the Sanctuary brand and are negotiating an option to acquire 30% of the equity interest in the resort upon completion of its expansion and renovation.
Located in Cap Cana, a 30,000-acre master-planned luxury resort community in Punta Cana, the hotel is spread across a 20.7-acre site with over 2,100 linear feet of waterfront and features 323 rooms, including 27 luxury villas, nine restaurants, an ice cream shop and eight bars. The hotel was built in 2008 and the owner funded a full renovation of the existing rooms and construction of 139 additional rooms in 2018. The hotel closed in May 2018 and reopened in September 2018 followed by the opening of two new towers in December 2018. The resort received the AAA Four Diamond Award in 2018 and a 2019 Gold Travvy for Best Luxury Hotel/Resort - Caribbean/Bahamas.
Jewel Grande Montego Bay Resort & Spa
Playa took over the management agreement for Jewel Grande Montego Bay Resort & Spa as part of the transaction with Sagicor in June 2018. This partially owned and managed resort, Jewel Grande Montego Bay Resort & Spa, is an all-ages property located on a private cove less than 20 minutes from Sangster International Airport. The resort is comprised of three towers offering a total of 217 guest rooms including three-bedroom villas as large as 4,397 square feet. 88 of the rooms, all junior suites, are owned by Playa. Most rooms include fully equipped kitchens and washers and dryers. The resort includes 67,000 square feet of beach frontage, a freestanding, full-service spa (owned by Playa), private beachside cabanas and two oceanfront swimming pools. Providing guests 14 food and beverage outlets including bars and lounges, the resort also offers a kids club, a teens club and a daily activity schedule inclusive of non-motorized water sports. The resort boasts over 25,000 square feet of meeting space and can accommodate groups up to 600 people. Recently awarded a 2019 Silver Travvy for Best All-Inclusive Luxury Resort - Caribbean/Bahamas and three 2018 Magellan Awards for Spa Design - Gold for Grande Spa, Room Design - Silver for the Villa Suites and Hospitality Marketing - Silver.
Resort Development
Hyatt Ziva and Hyatt Zilara Cap Cana
In July 2017, we acquired a premier beach front land parcel for the new Hyatt Zilara Cap Cana and Hyatt Ziva Cap Cana in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Upon completion, we expect the resorts will have 750 rooms, which will all have pool and beach views. The resort will feature around 23,000 square feet of meeting facilities, including a 16,000 square feet ballroom, a festive retail area, a commercial area, a dining village with an amphitheater, a waterpark, a spa and a 13,000 square foot fitness facility. As of December 31, 2018, we have spent approximately $96.3 million on the project, excluding the cost of the land, and our estimated budget for the project, excluding the cost of the land, is $202.0 million. We expect the new resorts will open in the fourth quarter of 2019.
Item 3.