Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Throughout this section, unless otherwise noted, for periods prior to the consummation of the Transactions, “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company,” or “Nesco” refer to Nesco LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries and, for periods following the consummation of the Transactions, “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company,” or “Nesco” refer to Nesco Holdings, Inc.
You should read the following discussion of our historical performance, financial condition and future prospects in conjunction with “Selected Financial Data” and the accompanying financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report. The information provided below supplements, but does not form part of, our financial statements. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on the views and beliefs of Nesco’s management, as well as assumptions and estimates made by our management. Actual results could differ materially from such forward-looking statements as a result of various risk factors, including those that may not be in the control of management. For further information on items that could impact our future operating performance or financial condition, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report.
ORGANIZATION
On July 31, 2019, NESCO Holdings I, Inc. and NESCO Holdings, LP consummated the previously announced business combination pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 7, 2019, which was amended on July 10, 2019 (as amended, the “Merger Agreement”) by and among Capitol, Capitol Intermediate Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of Capitol (“Intermediate Holdings”), Capitol Investment Merger Sub 1, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of Capitol (“Merger Sub”), Capitol Investment Merger Sub 2, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of Capitol Investment Corp. IV (“New HoldCo”). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (i) Capitol domesticated as a Delaware corporation and was renamed “Nesco Holdings, Inc.” (the “Domestication”), (ii) Merger Sub merged with and into Holdings I, with Holdings I surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Capitol (the “Initial Merger”), and (iii) immediately after the Initial Merger, Holdings I merged with and into New HoldCo, with New HoldCo surviving as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Capitol (the “Subsequent Merger,” and together with the Initial Merger, the “Mergers,” and together with the Domestication and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the “Transactions”). As a result of the Transactions, Holdings I became a limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Capitol, with Nesco Owner becoming a securityholder of Capitol.
Upon the Closing, Capitol’s ordinary shares, Warrants and units ceased trading, and upon the opening of trading on August 1, 2019, common stock and Warrants began trading on the NYSE, respectively, under the symbol “NSCO” and “NSCO WS,” respectively.
OVERVIEW
Nesco is one of the largest specialty equipment rental providers to the growing electric utility T&D, telecom and rail industries in North America. Nesco offers its specialized equipment to a diverse customer base for the maintenance, repair, upgrade and installation of critical infrastructure assets including electric lines, telecommunications networks and rail systems.
With a young, coast-to-coast rental fleet of approximately 4,600 units as of December 31, 2019, Nesco has a diverse specialty fleet offering that includes insulated and non-insulated bucket trucks, digger derricks, line equipment, cranes, pressure diggers and underground equipment, with all-terrain options such as all-wheel drive, track mounting and rail mounting. Nesco’s rental fleet has an approximate average unit age of only 3.6 years as of December 31, 2019, compared to an average expected useful life of 15 to 25 years. The long useful life of Nesco’s equipment assets is a key driver of attractive asset economics. Nesco expects that a combination of highly attractive asset economics and long rental periods, averaging 12.9 months at December 31, 2019, excluding Truck Utilities, will continue to drive strong profit margins. In addition to renting its fleet, the Company opportunistically sells both new and used specialty equipment (primarily from its own fleet), which fosters strong customer relationships, facilitates fleet management and strengthens supplier relationships.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
Measures Related to our Fleet
We consider the following key operational measures when evaluating our performance and making day-to-day operating decisions:
Equipment on rent - Equipment on rent is the original equipment cost (“OEC”) of units rented to customers at a given point in time. Average equipment on rent is calculated as the weighted-average equipment on rent during the stated period. OEC represents the original equipment cost by fleet type over a period of time, exclusive of the effect of adjustments to rental equipment fleet acquired in business combinations. This adjusted measure of OEC is used by our creditors pursuant to our credit agreements, wherein this is a component of the basis for determining compliance with our financial loan covenants. Additionally, the pricing of our rental contracts and equipment
sales prices for our equipment is based off of OEC, and we measure a rate of return from our rentals and sales using OEC. OEC is a widely used industry metric to compare fleet dollar value independent of depreciation.
Fleet count - Fleet count represents the average or period end (defined as either) equipment units held in our rental fleet over any period.
Fleet utilization - Fleet utilization, with respect to the average equipment units held in our rental fleet over any period, is defined as the total number of days the rental equipment was rented during the period divided by the total number of days such rental equipment could have been rented during the same period, assuming that each piece of equipment could have been rented every day in the period (i.e. no maintenance or planned downtime is included in the calculation).
Rental rate per day - Rental rate per day for the period is calculated as total rental revenue excluding freight and billings to customers for damaged equipment divided by the total billed rental days.
Fleet age - Fleet age represents the number of years from the manufacturer chassis year of the rental equipment unit through the current year end. We evaluate fleet age for each equipment type and our fleet as a whole. In order to calculate average fleet age by type and average total fleet age, we weight the fleet age by the number of units within the relevant group.
Gross Profit, Income from Operations and Cash Flow from Operations
Gross profit, income from operations and cash flow from operations are financial performance measures that we use to monitor our results from operations and to measure our performance against our debt covenants.
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is also a financial performance measure that we use to monitor our results from operations and to measure our performance against our debt covenants. This common metric is intended to align Nesco’s shareholders, debt holders, and management.
We believe the presentation of these financial measures enhances an investor’s understanding of our financial performance because these measures are useful financial metrics to assess our operating performance from period to period by excluding certain items that we believe are not representative of our core business. Such items are excluded pursuant to the definition of Adjusted EBITDA in the 2019 Credit Facility and the Indenture, Adjusted EBITDA is the basis for several financial loan covenants contained in the 2019 Credit Facility. These financial measures will provide investors with a useful tool for assessing the comparability between periods of our ability to generate cash from operations sufficient to pay taxes, to service debt and to undertake capital expenditures. We use these financial measures for business planning purposes, for loan compliance purposes, and in measuring our performance relative to that of our competitors.
In analyzing and planning for our business, we supplement our use of financial measures based on U.S. GAAP with non-GAAP financial and other measures, as well as, use measures related to our specialized fleet of rental equipment, which are defined above. Nesco’s use of the terms EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may vary from that of others in its industry and therefore are limited in their usefulness as comparative measures. These financial measures should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss), operating income (loss) or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or operating cash flows or as measures of liquidity. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of U.S. GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors to review our non-GAAP financial measures together with our U.S. GAAP results and historical consolidated financial statements, and not in isolation. Other companies may use similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated differently from the way we calculate such measures. Accordingly, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Adjusted EBITDA includes an adjustment to exclude the effects of purchase accounting adjustments when calculating the cost of used equipment sold. When equipment is purchased in connection with a business combination, the equipment is revalued to its then current fair value for accounting purposes. The consideration transferred (i.e., the purchase price) in a business combination is allocated to the fair value of equipment as of the acquisition date, with depreciation recorded thereafter following our accounting policies; however, this may not be indicative of our actual cost to acquire new equipment that we add to our fleet apart from a business acquisition. Additionally, the pricing of our rental contracts and equipment sales prices for our equipment is based off of OEC, and we measure a rate of return from our rentals and sales using OEC. As indicated above, the agreements governing our indebtedness define this adjustment to EBITDA, as such, and we believe this metric is a better indication of our true cost of equipment sales due to the removal of the purchase accounting adjustments.
Operating Results
Total Revenue
Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $17.7 million, or 7.2%, compared to the same period in 2018. This increase was primarily due to an increase in rental revenue which increased $13.4 million, or 7.3%, compared to the same period in 2018, driven by an increase in average equipment on rent, which grew to $479.0 million in 2019, compared to $450.2 million in 2018. Parts sales and service revenue also increased $14.6 million, or 84.1%, compared to the same period in 2018. This is the result of increased penetration of our equipment rental customer base and a ramping of revenues at the newer parts, tools and accessories locations, as well as the acquisition of Truck Utilities, which contributed $4.2 million to PTA revenue. This was partially offset by equipment sales which decreased $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. Truck Utilities contributed $8.5 million to revenue since the acquisition was completed in November 2019, split nearly evenly between both segments.
Total revenues increased by $42.5 million, or 20.9%, from $203.8 million for 2017 to $246.3 million in 2018. This increase is primarily due to increases in rental revenue and equipment sales ($40.2 million or 94.6% of the year over year increase). This is a result of an increase in demand across our key end markets of: T&D, telecom and rail, supplemented by demand from the storm and fire recovery end markets.
Cost of Revenue, excluding depreciation of rental equipment
Total cost of revenue, excluding depreciation of rental equipment, for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $6.3 million, or 6.3%, compared to the same period in 2018. The increase is primarily due to an increase in cost of parts sales and services of $12.7 million, or 103.0%, and an increase in cost of rental revenue of $1.8 million, or 3.7%, compared to the same period in 2018. The increase in cost was driven by our increased sales volume compared to the prior year. This was partially offset by a decrease in cost of equipment sales of $9.0 million, or 23.7%, due to lower sales.
Total cost of revenue, excluding depreciation of rental equipment, increased $16.4 million, or 19.5%, from $84.1 million for 2017 to $100.6 million for 2018. The increase is primarily due to a $13.3 million increase in cost of equipment sales.
Overall, results from our equipment and parts rental operations improved in each of the three years ended December 31, 2019, which is a direct result of our growth in our rental fleet and capitalization of the continuing demand in customers serving transmission and distribution, as well as telecom and rail end markets. Total gross profit margin from our rental operations was 74.3%, 73.4% and 70.5% excluding depreciation (38.7%, 38.7% and 32.1% including depreciation) in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Depreciation
Depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased $6.5 million, or 10.1%, as compared to the same period in 2018. This increase is primarily due to our increase in rental equipment as compared to the prior year.
Depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2018, increased $2.2 million, or 3.6%, as compared to the same period in 2017. This increase is primarily due to our increase in purchases of rental equipment as compared to the prior year.
Other Operating Expenses
Other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased $12.1 million, or 31.4%, as compared to the same period in 2018. The increases are primarily due to an increase in transaction related expenses of $7.2 million, asset impairment of $0.8 million and an increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses of $1.9 million, or 6.0%, as compared to the same period in 2018. Excluding transaction and site opening expenses, expenses related to going public were the primary driver of the increase in expenses.
Operating expenses increased $4.2 million, or 12.3%, from $34.3 million for 2017 to $38.5 million for 2018, primarily due to a selling, general, and administrative expense increase of $5.2 million. The Company also incurred $2.5 million in acquisition related expenses in 2018 compared to $1.9 million in 2017. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses in 2018 was led by a $3.2 million rise in selling expenses, primarily due to investment in sales teams focused on telecom, rail and PTA. An increase of $0.4 million in commissions was also recognized as a result of the $42.5 million increase in revenue compared to 2017.
Other Expense
Other expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $12.1 million, or 21.2%, as compared to the same period in 2018. This increase is primarily due to an increase in net interest expense of $6.7 million, or 11.8%, and loss on extinguishment of debt of $4.0 million, as compared to the same periods in 2018.
Other expense increased by $2.9 million from $54.1 million for 2017 to $57.0 million in 2018. This increase is primarily due to an increase in interest expense of $3.0 million, or 5.6%, from $53.7 million in 2017 to $56.7 million in 2018.
Income tax expense (benefit)
Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased by $7.7 million from an income tax expense of $1.7 million for 2018 to an income tax benefit of $6.0 million in 2019. The provision for income taxes in 2019 was a benefit, as compared to tax expense in 2018, which is the result of utilization of a portion of our federal and state income tax loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Our acquisition of Truck Utilities is expected to provide us with additional future taxable income allowing us to further utilize a portion of the NOLs.
Due to our valuation allowance on our NOL and interest deduction limitation carryforwards, we are generally unable to recognize a deferred tax benefit when we report pretax losses because we have determined the realization of tax benefits for the carryforwards to be uncertain. Our income tax expense or benefit reflects changes in our deferred tax liabilities associated with our non-tax deductible tradename intangible asset and goodwill, as well as, foreign taxes incurred in Canada and Mexico.
Income tax expense increased $5.2 million from a tax benefit of $3.5 million for 2017 to a tax expense of $1.7 million for 2018. The change in income tax expense recorded from 2017 to 2018 is due to the reduction of the U.S federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Financial Performance
We believe that our operating model, across both the Equipment Rental and Sales and Parts, Tools and Accessories segments, together with our variable cost structure, enables us to sustain high margins, strong cash flow generation and stable financial performance throughout various economic cycles. We are able to generate substantial cash flow through our operating earnings. Our highly variable cost structure adjusts with the utilization of our equipment, thereby reducing our costs to match our revenue resulting in strong Adjusted EBITDA over the past three years. Our financial performance is principally evaluated based on five measurements: Adjusted EBITDA, average equipment on rent, average fleet count, average fleet utilization and average rental rate per day. The following table summarizes these operating metrics.
Financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017:
(a)
EBITDA represents net income (loss) before interest, provision for income taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA as further adjusted for (1) non-cash purchase accounting impact, (2) transaction and process improvement costs, including the effect of the cessation of operations in Mexico, (3) major repairs, (4) share-based payments, (5) other non-recurring items, and (6) the change in fair value of derivative instruments. These metrics are subject to certain limitations. See “Financial Overview-Adjusted EBITDA.”
(b)
Average equipment on rent is the average original equipment cost of units on rent during the period. The measure provides a value dimension to the fleet utilization statistics. This metric has been adjusted to exclude Mexico, for which the Company commenced exit activities in 2019.
(c)
Average fleet utilization for the period is calculated as the total number of invoiced days divided by the total number of available equipment days. This metric has been adjusted to exclude Mexico, for which the Company commenced exit activities in 2019.
(d)
Average rental rate per day for the period is calculated as total rental revenue excluding freight and damaged billings divided by the total rental days, which represents the number of billable days in the period aggregated across all units in the fleet. This metric has been adjusted to exclude Mexico, for which the Company commenced exit activities in 2019.
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA increased $5.8 million, or 4.8%, from $121.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 to $127.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The year over year increase in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by an $11.6 million, or 8.6%, increase in core rental gross profit, excluding depreciation to $147.2 million ($76.6 million, including depreciation), compared to $135.5 million ($71.4 million, including depreciation) in 2018. This increase was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses due largely to increased expenses related to becoming a public company.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $23.1 million, or 23.4%, from $98.6 million for 2017 to $121.7 million for 2018. This increase can be primarily attributed to an $26.1 million or 21.8% increase in gross profit, excluding depreciation to $145.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, driven by an increased level of equipment on rent compared to the prior year and growth in PTA. This increase was partially offset by a $1.3 million reduction in equipment sales gross profit and a $1.8 million reduction in purchase accounting adjustments related to those sales as well as an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses due largely to increased expenses related to becoming a public company.
The following is a reconciliation from U.S. GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 and a reconciliation from Adjusted EBITDA to U.S. GAAP net cash from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
(1) Represents the non-cash impact of purchase accounting, net of accumulated depreciation, on the cost of equipment sold. The equipment acquired received a purchase step-up in basis, which is a non-cash adjustment to the equipment cost pursuant to the credit agreement governing the Company’s asset-based lending facility (the “credit agreement”).
(2)
For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, represents transaction costs related to the agreement and plan of merger with Capitol, which are comprised of professional consultancy fees, transaction costs, and the loss on extinguishment of debt. Additionally, pursuant to the credit agreement, the cost of undertakings to effect such cost savings, operating expense reductions and other synergies, as well as any expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, are amounts to be included in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. For the year ended December 31, 2019, these costs include startup expenses associated with the new PTA locations (which include training, travel, and process setup costs), transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Truck Utilities, Inc. and expenses associated with the Company’s closure of its Mexican equipment rental and sales operations.
(3)
Represents the undepreciated cost of replaced chassis components from heavy maintenance, repair and overhaul activities associated with the Company’s fleet, which is an adjustment pursuant to the credit agreement.
(4)
Represents non-cash stock compensation expense associated with the issuance of stock options and restricted stock units in 2019 and the Class B Profits Interest Awards by NESCO Holdings, LP (the Company’s then ultimate parent) on February 26, 2014, which is an adjustment pursuant
to the credit agreement. See Note 13, Share-Based Compensation Plans, to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, for additional information.
(5)
For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, represents other adjustments pursuant to the credit agreement: Rental expense incurred in 2018 for fleet equipment that had been rented under the terms of an operating lease that was terminated in 2018. The 2017 adjustment is comprised of a state tax audit settlement and write-downs of inventory items.
(6)
Represents the charge to earnings for the Company’s interest rate collar (which is an undesignated hedge) in the year ended December 31, 2019.
Equipment on rent
Average equipment on rent was $479.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of $28.8 million, or 6.4% over the same period in 2018. The increase in both periods is due to increased fleet size and continued demand from our equipment rental customers.
The average equipment on rent was $450.2 million for 2018, an increase over 2017 of $46.4 million, or 11.5%. The increase was due to increased fleet size and sustained higher utilization.
Fleet count
Average fleet count was 4,172 for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 333 from an average fleet count of 3,839 over the same period in 2018. Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2019, were predominately in the bucket trucks category, driven by demand in T&D, telecom and rail end-markets.
Average fleet count was 3,839 for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of 197 from an average fleet count of 3,642 for the year ended December 31, 2017. In 2018 and 2017 capital expenditures were predominately in the bucket and other truck categories, driven by continued demand in T&D, telecom and rail end-markets.
Fleet utilization
Fleet utilization was 80.7% for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 82.3% in the same period of 2018. After adjusting for new units that have not yet entered into service, Truck Utilities and the prior year’s benefit from storm recovery in Puerto Rico, utilization was down 0.4% year-over-year.
Average utilization rates increased across all equipment categories in 2018 compared to 2017, driving our average overall utilization rate up to 82.3% from 78.1%. We expect our utilization levels to remain at current high levels as demand for equipment by customers serving T&D end-markets and growth in the telecom and rail markets continue. Our method of measuring rental equipment utilization rate may not be comparable with that of other companies.
Rental rate per day
Average rental rate per day decreased to $137.5 for the year ended December 31, 2019, a 1.5% decrease from $139.6 for the same period in 2018. Average rental rate per day is flat to down year over year due to changes in fleet composition driven by demand and strategic diversification. Increases in the fleet related to telecom, distribution, and rail end markets have outpaced our other end markets. Average rental rate per day is generally lower in these end markets due to the lower average purchase price of equipment used. We continue to realize gains in pricing by product line.
Average rental rate per day increased 2.6% to $139.6 in 2018 from $136.1 for 2017. This increase is the result of rate increases implemented in 2017 and 2018.
Fleet age
We use fleet age by type to assist in our decision to sell or purchase a particular fleet category to ensure our fleet age remains competitive. Our overall average fleet age excluding Mexico was approximately 3.6 years as of December 31, 2019, compared to 3.7 at December 31, 2018. We believe the current age of our fleet is young and gives us flexibility from a capital allocation and sales perspective.
Our overall average fleet age excluding Mexico was approximately 3.7 years as of December 31, 2018 compared to 3.5 years as of December 31, 2017. The increase in fleet age was primarily due to lower used sales quantities and a relatively low investment in new fleet.
Fleet composition
We own a diverse selection of equipment in order to meet the needs of our customers. Bucket trucks, digger derricks, line equipment and rail-mounted equipment make up a significant percentage of our fleet portfolio. We also carry cranes, pressure diggers, underground equipment, and other miscellaneous fleet items, making us a full service specialty equipment provider. All of our equipment is available for rent and our used equipment sales and new equipment purchases are partially driven by our desire to keep an optimal product mix and maintain a competitive fleet age.
Rental equipment cost for our fleet excluding Mexico and parts was $628.9 million as of December 31, 2019, a $116.7 million or 22.8% increase, from $512.3 million at December 31, 2018. The bucket trucks category represented the largest increase for the year ended December 31, 2019 and is driven by increased demand across end markets of T&D, Rail and Telecom, as these can be used across markets.
Rental equipment cost for our fleet excluding Mexico and parts has grown $30.3 million, or 6.3%, from $482.0 million at December 31, 2017 to $512.3 million as of December 31, 2018. The 28’ to 49’ sized bucket trucks category represented the largest increase for 2018, followed by cranes and diggers.
Operating Results by Segment
The Company manages its operations through two business segments: rental and sale of fleet and equipment along with repair and maintenance related to those assets (ERS), and the rental and sale of parts, tools, and accessories (PTA). See Note 3, Segments, to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Equipment Rental and Sales Segment
Our ERS segment primarily provides equipment to contractors who install, repair and maintain infrastructure assets, including T&D electric cabling (above and below ground), telecommunications networks and rail systems in addition to installing lighting and signage.
2019 Compared to 2018
Revenue in our ERS segment represented 82.1% and 88.4% of Nesco’s consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Total revenue in our ERS segment decreased by $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a decline of rental sales and new equipment sales of $10.3 million. New and used equipment sales can vary and be difficult to predict. Timing differences in used sales provides the opportunity to continue to rent equipment and defer associated capital expenditures for fleet replacement. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in rental revenue of $9.5 million or 5.5%. Rental revenue growth was driven by the expansion of our rental fleet and the continued demand for equipment in the T&D, telecom and rail markets.
Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation of rental equipment, decreased by $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in the cost of equipment sales driven by lower sales volumes for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018.
Depreciation of our rental fleet increased by $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, respectively, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to increase in fleet count.
Our increase in gross profit of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily driven by the $7.9 million decrease in ERS cost of revenue, excluding depreciation, which was partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense of $5.8 million. Excluding depreciation, ERS gross profit increased $7.1 million or 5.3% compared to 2018.
2018 Compared to 2017
Rental and sales revenues of equipment grew by approximately $37.4 million or 20.7% between fiscal years 2017 and 2018. As reported above, this is a result of an increase in demand from our end markets including: market share gains in rail and telecom, supplemented by storm and fire recovery activity in areas including Puerto Rico. Revenue from Equipment Rental and Sales represented approximately 88% of Nesco’s revenues in both 2017 and 2018.
Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation of rental equipment, increased by $15.0 million or 21.7% between 2017 and 2018.
Depreciation of our rental fleet represented a 2.6% increase over 2017 due to an increase in fleet count of 6%.
Our increase in gross profit of $20.8 million or 40.0% between 2017 and 2018 was driven by the $37.4 million increase in rental and sales revenue partially offset by a $15.0 million increase in cost of revenue, excluding depreciation. Excluding depreciation, ERS gross profit increased $22.3 million or 20.2% compared to 2017.
Parts, Tools, and Accessories Segment
The PTA segment of our business complements products and services provided by our ERS operating segment. PTA is a natural adjunct to our specialty equipment rental offering and is a one stop shop for parts, tools, and accessories to the Nesco customer base.
2019 Compared to 2018
PTA revenues increased by $18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The majority of this increase in each period was driven by increased market penetration driven by our added PTA locations and inventory investment, capturing increased spend from our existing customers. The added locations, from two at the end of 2018 to seven at the end of 2019, provide local repair and test services, significantly decreased delivery time, and reduced freight expenses for rental and sales of parts, tools and accessories to our customers in these local markets. We believe this establishes a strong platform for future market share gains.
Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation, for this segment increased $14.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, respectively, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in parts sales cost with the increased sales revenue, and costs that were driven by our added PTA locations.
Depreciation expense increased $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, respectively, compared to the same period in 2018, related to parts and tools acquisition costs.
Total gross profit of $12.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, respectively, represented an increase of $3.6 million or 40.6% as compared to the same period in 2018.
2018 Compared to 2017
PTA revenues increased by $5.1 million or 21.9% from approximately $23.5 million in 2017 to $28.7 million in 2018. The majority of this increase is reflective of our acquisition of N&L Equipment in 2018 and Bethea Tool and Equipment in 2017. These strategic acquisitions provide a complete PTA product offering for the T&D end markets and enable entrance into our other core markets. In addition, these acquisitions provided the needed supply chain and service expertise enabling expansion into new geographic regions, including new locations, to improve responsiveness.
Cost of revenue, excluding depreciation, for this segment increased $1.4 million or 9.5% primarily due to increased sales.
Depreciation increased $0.7 million or 22.1% from 2017 to 2018 related to parts and tools acquisition costs.
Total gross profit of $8.9 million in 2018 represented an increase of $3.1 million or 52.9%, as compared to 2017.
Critical Accounting Policies
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In applying accounting principles it is often required to use estimates. These estimates consider the facts, circumstances, and information available, and may be based on subjective inputs, assumptions, and information known and unknown to us. Material changes in certain of the estimates that we use, could potentially affect, by a material amount, our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Although results may vary, we believe our estimates are reasonable and appropriate. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. The following describes certain of our significant accounting policies that involve more subjective and complex judgments where the effect on our consolidated financial position and operating performance could be material.
Revenue Recognition
Rental Revenue. Our rental contracts are for various equipment, parts, tools, and accessories under 28 day or monthly agreements which include automatic renewal provisions. The majority of our rental payments are due monthly. Revenue is recognized ratably over the rental agreement period and in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 840, Leases (“Topic 840”). Unearned revenue is reported in our deferred rent income line of our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We had deferred revenue of $2.3 million as of December 31, 2019 and $4.8 million as of December 31, 2018.
Sales of Rental Equipment and New Equipment. We sell both new and used equipment. Our new equipment products are sold at list price. We do not discount or offer other pricing incentives or concessions. The contractual sales price for each individual product represents the standalone selling price. Our used equipment is of a sufficiently unique nature - based on the specifics of its age, usage, etc. - that it does not have an observable standalone selling price. Equipment sales revenue is recognized when vehicles are delivered, which is when the transfer of title, risks and rewards of ownership, and control are considered passed to the customer. Payment is usually due and collected within 30 days subsequent to transfer of control of the vehicle. There are no rights of return or warranties offered on equipment sales.
Parts Sales and Services. We sell parts, tools and accessories in addition to services. We record revenue as parts and services are delivered. The amount of consideration we receive for parts is based upon a list price net of discounts and incentives. The amount of consideration received for service is based upon labor hours expended and parts utilized to perform and complete the necessary services for our customers. There are no rights of return or warranties offered on parts sales. Payment is usually due and collected within 30 days subsequent to delivery of parts or performance of service.
Useful Lives and Residual Values of Rental Equipment and Property and Equipment
Our rentable equipment consists of parts, tools and accessories and specialized rental equipment. Purchases of our equipment are recorded at cost, the OEC and we depreciate OEC to an estimated residual value. We depreciate our parts, tools, and accessories over their estimated useful rentable life of five years. We depreciate our rental equipment over its estimated useful rentable life of seven years with an estimated residual value of 15% of the OEC, using the straight-line method. Useful life is estimated based upon the expected period the equipment will be in the fleet as a rentable unit. A residual value is estimated to approximate the value of the equipment at the end of its useful (i.e., rentable) life, allowing for a reasonable profit margin on the sale of the equipment when we remove the unit from the fleet. In establishing useful lives and residual values, we consider factors related to customer demand of differing types of equipment in order for us to hold and maintain an optimal mix of equipment types in our fleet. We also continuously evaluate factors related to the condition and serviceability of the equipment in our fleet in order to make estimates of useful life and expected end-of-life value. Depreciation of our equipment is recognized as a component of our cost of revenue. For sold equipment, the carrying value of an item is recognized as cost of equipment sale within cost of revenue. Changes in estimated useful life and/or residual value would impact our gross profit in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent that the useful lives of our rental equipment were to increase or decrease by one year, we estimate that our annual depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately $8 million, respectively. Similarly, to the extent the estimated residual values of our rental equipment were to increase or decrease by one percentage point, we estimate that our annual depreciation expense would change by approximately $1 million. Any change in depreciation expense as a result of a hypothetical change in either useful lives or residual values would generally result in a proportional increase or decrease in the gross profit we would recognize upon the ultimate sale of the asset.
Business Combinations
We have made acquisitions in the past and may continue to make acquisitions in the future. We allocate the cost of the acquired enterprise to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. Rental equipment generally represents the largest component and was 64% of total assets acquired over the last three years followed by other intangible assets at
10% and goodwill at 24%. Goodwill is attributable to the synergies and economies of scale expected from the combination of the businesses.
In addition to long-lived fixed assets, we also acquire other assets and assume liabilities. These other assets and liabilities typically include, but are not limited to, parts inventory, accounts receivable, accounts payable, deferred revenue and other working capital items. Because of their short-term nature, the fair values of these other assets and liabilities generally approximate the carrying values reflected on the acquired entities’ balance sheets. However, when appropriate, we adjust these carrying values for factors such as collectability and existence. The intangible assets that we have acquired are primarily goodwill, customer relationships, trade names, and non-compete agreements. Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Customer relationships, trade names, and non-compete agreements are valued based on an excess earnings or income approach with consideration to projected cash flows.
Our estimates of the values of tangible assets from our business combinations, principally rental equipment, utilize data that reflect quoted prices for similar assets available in active markets (such as the used equipment market). For this reason, estimates of the fair values of these items is not considered to be highly subjective or complex. However, to estimate the values of intangible assets we utilize income methods that involve forecasting future cash flow related to the acquired businesses. The estimates of future cash flow require us to establish expectations about customer demand, investments in maintaining or expanding infrastructure for the markets the businesses serve, and the supply and capacity of equipment in the rental market, among others. Additionally, we are required to establish expectations for the businesses’ cost of capital and ability to acquire and maintain equipment in the future. Changes in these assumptions would have an impact on the amount of intangible assets recorded and the resulting amortization expense.
Goodwill and the Evaluation of Goodwill Impairment
Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently as warranted by triggering events that indicate potential impairment. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which we have determined to be ERS and PTA. We use a variety of methodologies in conducting impairment assessments, including qualitative analysis, income and market approaches. The market value approach compares current and projected financial results to entities of similar size and industry to determine market value. The income approach utilizes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. These cash flows consider factors regarding expected future operating income and historical trends.
Factors that management must estimate when performing impairment tests include sales volume, prices, inflation, discount rates, tax rates and capital spending. Significant management judgment is involved in estimating these factors, and they include inherent uncertainties. The estimates of future cash flow require us to establish expectations about customer demand, investments in maintaining or expanding infrastructure for the markets each reporting unit serves, and the supply and capacity of equipment in the rental market, among others. Additionally, we are required to establish expectations for the businesses’ cost of capital and ability to acquire and maintain equipment in the future. Measurement of the recoverability of these assets is dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions used in making these estimates, as well as how the estimates compare to our eventual future operating performance. Changes in these estimates could change our conclusion regarding the impairment of goodwill assets and potentially result in a non-cash impairment in the future period.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Flows and Liquidity
Our primary cash needs have been to meet debt service requirements and to fund working capital and capital expenditures. We fund these requirements from cash generated by our rental operations and cash received from the sale of equipment, as well as funds available under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2019, we had $6.3 million in cash compared to $2.1 million as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2019, we had $250.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility (as defined below) with an additional $96.9 million in availability (subject to a borrowing base) compared to $209.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2019, the Company had $3.2 million of letters of credit outstanding.
Due to the condition and relatively young age of our fleet, we have the ability to significantly reduce or suspend capital expenditures during difficult economic times in order to generate additional cash flow during these periods. We believe that our cash generated by our rental operations and cash received from the sale of equipment, as well as funds available under our 2019 Credit Facility will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs for the foreseeable future. To the extent additional funds are necessary to meet our long-term liquidity needs as we continue to execute our business strategy, we anticipate that they will be obtained through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, additional equity financings or a combination of these potential sources of funds. Our ability to meet our operating, investing and financing needs depends to a significant extent on our future financial performance, which will be subject in
part to general economic, competitive, financial, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including those described in PART I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to these general economic and industry factors, the principal factors in determining whether our cash flows will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements will be changes in governmental regulations for the T&D industry, weather, and our customers’ ability to secure materials. In the event that we need access to additional cash, we may not be able to access the credit markets on commercially acceptable terms or at all. We expect to continually assess our performance, the economic environment and market conditions to guide our decisions regarding our uses of cash, including capital expenditures.
2019 Credit Facility
In connection with the Closing, on July 31, 2019, we entered into an agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Fifth Third Bank, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., pursuant to which such parties provided us with $350.0 million in aggregate principal amount of commitments pursuant to a first lien senior secured asset based revolving credit facility (“2019 Credit Facility” or the “revolving credit facility”).
The revolving credit facility has a five-year term and a floating rate of interest based on either the federal funds rate plus a margin ranging between 50 and 100 basis points or LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 150 and 200 basis points, in each case, depending on excess availability under the facility. Our availability under the revolving credit facility is a percentage of the value of our accounts receivable, our parts inventory, our fleet inventory, and our cash, in each case, subject to certain eligibility criteria. A portion of the revolving credit facility may be used for the issuance of letters of credit. The revolving credit facility is guaranteed by our wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, subject to customary exceptions, and is secured by substantially all assets of Nesco and the guarantors. We can reduce the aggregate commitments under the revolving credit facility without premium or penalty. The revolving credit facility contains covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including acquired indebtedness), issuance of certain preferred stock, the payment of dividends, making restricted payments and investments, the purchase or acquisition or retirement for value of any equity interests, the provision of loans or advances to restricted subsidiaries, the sale or lease or transfer of any properties to any restricted subsidiaries, the transfer or sale of assets, and the creation of certain liens.
On March 10, 2020, we entered into the Incremental Agreement amending the 2019 Revolving Credit Facility. The Incremental Agreement amends the syndicate of banks for a new participant that increased the maximum amount of the facility by $35.0 million to a total of $385.0 million.
Senior Secured Notes due 2024
In connection with the Closing, on July 31, 2019 we completed a private offering for Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2024 (the “Senior Secured Notes”) issued by Capitol Investment Merger Sub 2, LLC, our wholly owned and indirect subsidiary (the “Issuer”). The aggregate principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes was $475.0 million. The Senior Secured Notes bear interest at a rate of 10.0% per annum payable semi-annually, in cash in arrears, on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2020. The Senior Secured Notes do not have registration rights.
A summary of the key provisions are as follows:
Guarantors - The Senior Secured Notes are guaranteed (the “Guarantees”) by Intermediate Holdings, our wholly owned subsidiary and the wholly owned domestic subsidiaries of the Issuer (together, “Guarantors”) that guarantee obligations under the 2019 Credit Facility or any future debt of Nesco or any other Guarantors.
Security - The Senior Secured Notes and the Guarantees are secured on a second-priority basis by all assets of Nesco and the Guarantors that secure our obligations under the 2019 Credit Facility.
Ranking - The Senior Secured Notes and the Guarantees are general senior secured obligations. The Senior Secured Notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior debt and rank senior in right of payment to all of our future subordinated obligations. The Guarantees rank equally in right of payment with all of the Guarantors’ existing and future senior obligations and rank senior in right of payment to all of the Guarantors’ existing and future subordinated obligations. The Senior Secured Notes and the Guarantees rank effectively subordinated to all of the Guarantors’ and our first-priority secured debt, including borrowings under the 2019 Credit Facility.
Redemption and Repurchase - The Senior Secured Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at any time on or after the Closing date at specified redemption prices. At any time prior to August 1, 2021, we may redeem all or part of the notes at a redemption price equal to 100.0% of the principal amount, plus an applicable premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We may also redeem some or all of the notes: from August 1, 2021, but before July 31, 2022, at a redemption price of 105.0% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date; from August 1, 2022,
but before July 31, 2023, at a redemption price of 102.5% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date; and after August 1, 2023, at a redemption price of 100.0% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. In addition, we may redeem up to 40.0% of the Senior Secured Notes until August 1, 2021, at a redemption price of 110.0% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds from one or more equity offerings. In addition, we may be required to make an offer to purchase the Senior Secured Notes upon the sale of certain assets and upon a change of control.
Covenants - The Senior Secured Notes contain various restrictive covenants.
Cash Flows
The following table summarizes Nesco’s sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:
As of December 31, 2019, we had cash of $6.3 million, an increase of $4.2 million from December 31, 2018. Generally, we manage our cash flow by using any excess cash, after considering our working capital and capital expenditure needs, to pay down the outstanding balance of the 2019 Credit Facility.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $41.0 million in the same period of 2018. The decrease is due to a $11.5 million increase in net loss from 2018 to 2019 and a $13.1 million decrease in cash flows from operations from 2018 to 2019 due to working capital changes. Investments in inventory for the new PTA locations contributing to the 64.8% increase in PTA revenue, along with an increase in accounts receivable due to a general increase in revenue growth were major contributors. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities from 2018 to 2019 is partially offset by a $2.4 million increase in non-cash expenses. The increase in non-cash expenses is primarily due to $7.2 million of additional depreciation, $0.8 million of additional major repair disposal and $4.0 million of loss from extinguishment of debt offset by a decrease of $8.0 million in deferred tax expense in 2018 compared to 2019.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $41.0 million in 2018 as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $17.2 million in 2017. The increase is due to an $11.6 million reduction in net loss from 2017 to 2018, as well as a $7.3 million increase in non-cash expenses. The increase in non-cash items is primarily due to a $1.9 million increase in gain on sale of rental equipment offset by a $5.4 million increase in deferred tax expense from 2017 to 2018. This was offset by $2.2 million of additional depreciation in 2018 compared to 2017. Finally, there was a $5.0 million increase in cash flows from operations from 2017 to 2018 due to working capital changes.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $129.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to cash used in investing activities of $27.4 million in 2018. The increase in net cash used in investing activities for 2019 is primarily due to an increase in the Company’s cash outlay for acquisitions (Truck Utilities, Inc. in 2019) of $46.9 million, an increase in purchases of rental equipment fleet of $48.1 million, an increase in purchases of other property and equipment of $2.3 million and a decrease in proceeds from equipment sales of $6.5 million compared to the prior year, offset by an increase in insurance proceeds from damaged equipment of $1.7 million.
Net cash used in investing activities was $27.4 million during 2018, primarily consisting of cash paid for the acquisition of N&L Line Equipment of $1.5 million, net of cash acquired, and $58.5 million of rental equipment fleet purchases offset by $33.3 million of equipment sales proceeds. Net cash used in investing activities was $21.4 million during 2017, primarily consisting of cash paid for an acquisition of $0.5 million, net of cash acquired, and $47.1 million of rental equipment fleet purchases offset by $26.6 million of equipment sales proceeds.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities was $115.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to cash used by financing activities of $12.4 million in 2018. The increase is primarily due to proceeds from issuing the Senior Secured Notes due 2024, of $475.0 million, proceeds from the merger and recapitalization undertaken in connection with the Transactions of $147.3 million and an increase in new borrowings under the revolving credit facility, net of repayments of $42.0 million, offset by an increase in repayments of notes payable of $525.9 million and an increase of finance fees paid of $13.8 million.
Net cash used in financing activities was $12.4 million in 2018. This included $1.0 million of repayments, net of new borrowings, under the revolving credit facility, in addition to $8.1 million of capital lease financing payments and $1.6 million finance costs paid. Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.8 million in 2017. This included $8.0 million of borrowings, net of repayments, under revolving commitments under a previous credit facility, offset by $3.9 million of capital lease financing payments.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019:
(1)
Interest on debt is comprised of contractually required interest payments calculated using the interest rate in effect as of December 31, 2019, on our 2019 Credit Facility (4.2%) and semi-annual interest payments required under our Senior Secured Notes at 10.0%.
Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements
We have no obligations, assets, or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any nonfinancial assets.
DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements made in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and should be evaluated as such. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations, including descriptions of our business plan and strategies. These statements often include words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “suggests,” “plan,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimates,” “targets,” “projects,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “may,” “will,” “forecast,” and other similar expressions. We base these forward-looking statements or projections on our current expectations, plans and assumptions that we have made in light of our experience in the industry, as well as our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances and at such time. As you read and consider this report, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. The forward-looking statements and projections are subject to and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements or projections. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements and projections are based on reasonable assumptions at the time they are made, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and projections. Factors that may materially affect such forward-looking statements and projections include:
•
the risks associated with cyclical demand for our services and vulnerability to industry downturns and regional and national downturns;
•
fluctuations in our revenue and operating results;
•
unfavorable conditions or further disruptions in the capital and credit markets;
•
our ability to generate cash, service our indebtedness and incur additional indebtedness;
•
competition from existing and new competitors;
•
our relationships with equipment suppliers and dependence on key suppliers to obtain adequate or timely equipment;
•
increases in the cost of new equipment and our ability to procure such equipment in a timely fashion;
•
our ability to pass on increased operating costs related to the aging of our fleet;
•
our ability to integrate any businesses we acquire;
•
our ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel;
•
the effect of disruptions in our information technology systems, including our customer relationship management system;
•
risks related to legal proceedings or claims, including liability claims;
•
our dependence on third-party contractors to provide us with various services;
•
a need to recognize additional impairment charges related to goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets;
•
our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms;
•
laws and regulatory developments that may fail to result in increased demand for our services;
•
safety and environmental requirements that may subject us to unanticipated liabilities; and
•
other factors discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” or elsewhere in this report.
These cautionary statements should not be construed by you to be exhaustive and are made only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless required by law.
Item 3.