ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our sole property is the Hycroft Mine. The Hycroft Mine is an open-pit (surface) gold and silver mine with a long history of operations as discussed below. Commencing in January 2019, Hycroft Mining Corporation (the "Seller") began efforts to restart mining operations. During the first quarter of 2019, the Seller worked to bring our six haul trucks, two hydraulic shovels and one wheel loader back into operation. In addition, the Seller began the rehabilitation of the crushing system and the construction of leach pad space to enable mining operations to begin in the second quarter of 2019. Initial gold and silver production occurred in August 2019. During 2020, the rehabilitation of the crushing system was completed, additional mobile fleet equipment was rented, headcount increased, repairs and restoration of processing facilities were continued, and the construction of a new leach pad expansion and related infrastructure began. The North Merrill-Crowe processing and refining facility continues on care and maintenance and it will require expenditures to restore it to operational status.
Hycroft Technical Report
The information that follows relating to the Hycroft Mine is derived, for the most part, from, and in some instances is an extract from, the Hycroft Technical Report prepared in compliance with the SEC’s Modernization of Property Disclosures for Mining Registrants. Portions of the following information are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures that are not fully described herein. Reference should be made to the full text of the Hycroft Technical Report, incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this 2020 Form 10-K, as previously filed with the SEC on February 14, 2020.
Overview and Highlights
The Hycroft Mine Technical Report contemplates average annual production of approximately 366,000 gold equivalent ounces, based on a 34-year mine life for mining and processing mineral reserves. As of December 31, 2020, we had not yet begun the ramp up of our operations to production levels contemplated in the Hycroft Technical Report and, as such, we are producing gold and silver at a much lower rate. Our 2021 production plan will allow us to maintain our existing workforce and the decision to delay ramp up to high production levels will allow us time to optimize our mining plan, take additional steps to define our ore body, and resolve technical issues to better understand the proprietary two-stage heap oxidation and leach process and evaluate the proposed oxidation process for transitional and sulfide ores, and allow us to evaluate implementing additional processing technologies that may be more profitable for certain ore types. Our current plans focus our efforts on placing the Hycroft Mine in a position for a future ramp up of production at the appropriate time.
The Hycroft Technical Report sets forth a novel process for processing sulfide ore and assumes that we will utilize a substantial amount of existing infrastructure at the Hycroft Mine including administration buildings, mobile maintenance shop, light vehicle maintenance shop, warehouse, leach pads, crushing system, a refinery, and two Merrill-Crowe process plants, after refurbishment. Additionally, a second refinery is planned using existing equipment. In order to ramp up and maintain our operation to tonnage and production levels contemplated by the Hycroft Technical Report, we will need to construct additional leach pad space, add crusher capacity, add material handling systems, and construct a rail spur and storage space among other projects. In addition to infrastructure additions, we will need to significantly expand our mobile mining fleet and workforce, and perform repairs and maintenance to existing infrastructure, particularly the North Merrill-Crowe process plant. In the event that we determine to implement additional processing technologies and/or materially change our assumptions for consumption of reagents or metallurgical recovery rates, we may update or file a new technical report in the future. We currently have established goals and budgeted estimated costs for this work in 2021 or 2022.
Hycroft Mine
For a detailed discussion of the Hycroft Mine’s operating and production data, see Part II - Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Hycroft Mine.
The following shows where our Hycroft Mine and Advanced Exploration Properties are located as well as areas of the Hycroft Mine.
Additionally, the map below shows the current property and facilities layout.
The Hycroft Mine and related facilities are located approximately 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. Winnemucca, a city with a population of approximately 7,800 (2019), is a commercial community on Interstate 80, 164 miles northeast of Reno. The mine property straddles Townships 34, 35, 351∕2 and 36 North and Ranges 28, 29 and 30 East (MDB&M) with an approximate latitude 40°52’ north and longitude 118°41’ west.
The town is served by a transcontinental railroad and has a municipal airport. Access to the Hycroft Mine from Winnemucca is by Jungo Road, formerly designated as State Route 49, a good-quality, unpaved road, and a short access road to the main entrance of the mine. Well-maintained mine and exploration roads provide access throughout the property. Access is also possible from Imlay, Gerlach and Lovelock by unpaved roads intersecting Interstate 80 and Nevada State Route 447. The majority of our employees live in the Winnemucca area. The site receives electrical power provided by NV Energy from the northwestern Nevada power grid. Initial surveys indicate that the town of Winnemucca has the required infrastructure (shopping, emergency services, schools, etc.) to support the maximum workforce and dependents. The Hycroft Mine currently has water rights which are adequate to support our planned future heap leach operations. The mine is situated on the eastern edge of the Black Rock Desert and on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains between Winnemucca and Gerlach, Nevada. There are no streams, rivers or major lakes in the general area. Elevations in the mine area range between 4,500 and 5,500 feet above sea level.
The climate of the region is arid, with precipitation averaging 2.1 inches per year. Average temperatures during the summer range from 50°F to 90°F and average winter temperatures range from 20°F to 40°F.
We hold 30 private patented claims and 3,247 unpatented mining claims that constitute our Hycroft Mine operating property. The total acreage covered by unpatented claims is approximately 68,759 acres and an additional 1,912 acres is covered by patented claims. Combining the patented and unpatented claims, total claims cover approximately 70,671 acres. Our Hycroft Mine patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the State of Nevada. To maintain the patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property tax payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain the unpatented claims in good standing, we must file a notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. Such filing fees amounted to $0.6 million in 2020. As long as we file the annual notice and pay the claim filing fees, there is no expiration date for our unpatented claims.
A portion of the Hycroft Mine is subject to a mining lease requiring us to pay 4% net profit royalty to the owner of certain patented and unpatented mining claims, subject to a maximum of $7.6 million, of which $4.9 million remained payable as of December 31, 2020. There is no expiration date on the net profit royalty.
The Hycroft Mine is also subject to the Sprott Royalty Agreement (as defined herein) that requires us to pay a perpetual royalty equal to 1.5% of the Net Smelter Returns, as such term is defined in such agreement, from our Hycroft Mine. There is no expiration and no limit on the amount that can be paid on the Sprott Royalty Agreement. We have the right to repurchase up to 33.3% (0.5% of the 1.5% royalty) of the royalty on each of the first and second anniversaries from May 29, 2020.
The Hycroft Mine was formerly known as the Crofoot-Lewis open pit mine, which was a small heap leaching operation that commenced in 1983. Vista Gold Corp., a corporation incorporated under the laws of the Yukon Territory (“Vista”), acquired the Crofoot-Lewis claims and mine in 1987 and 1988. During this first operating period the mine produced over 1.0 million ounces of gold and 2.5 million ounces of silver. The mine production continued until it was placed on a care and maintenance program in December 1998 due to low gold prices. Seller acquired the Hycroft Mine in 2007 pursuant to an arrangement agreement where Vista transferred its Nevada mining properties to Seller’s predecessor. Seller restarted the Hycroft Mine in 2008 and suspended mining operations on July 8, 2015. During 2016, Seller was actively processing and producing gold from the ore within the heap leach pads. On January 1, 2017, Seller went into a care and maintenance mode when it stopped adding lime to the leach pads and continued to operate in a care and maintenance mode throughout 2017 and 2018. Prior to restarting operations, production of gold and silver was a byproduct of Seller’s maintenance activities on the Hycroft Mine. In January 2019 Seller began the restart of mining operations. During the first quarter of 2019 Seller began operations again with six haul trucks, two hydraulic shovels and one wheel loader. In addition, Seller began the rehabilitation of its crushing system and the construction of new leach pad space to enable mining operations to begin in the second quarter of 2019. Initial gold and silver production occurred in August 2019.
On site facilities include an administration building, mobile maintenance shop, light vehicle maintenance shop, warehouse, leach pads, crushing system, two Merrill-Crowe process plants and a refinery. The components for a second refinery are on-site and will be constructed as part of the expansion of mining activities. The crushing system was refurbished as part of the restart activities and all other facilities are operational with the exception of the North Merrill-Crowe plant which is currently expected to be needed in 2022. The gross book value of plant and equipment associated with the Hycroft Mine as of December 31, 2020, was $85.3 million.
Geology
The Hycroft Mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcanoclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the ore-body from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert. The geological events have created a physical setting ideally suited to the open-pit, heap-leach mining operation at the Hycroft Mine. The heap leach method is widely used in the southwestern United States and allows the economical treatment of oxidized low-grade ore deposits in large volumes.
The deposit is typically broken into six major zones based on geology, mineralization, and alteration. These zones include Brimstone, Vortex, Central, Bay, Boneyard, and Camel. Breaks between the zones are major faults.
Mineralization at Hycroft has been deposited through multiple phases. An early silica sulfide flooding event deposited relatively low-grade gold and silver mineralization generally along bedding. This mineralization is cross cut by later, steeply dipping quartz alunite veins. Late stage silver bearing veins are found in the Vortex zone and at depth in the Central area. Late to present supergene oxidation along faults has liberated precious metals from sulfides and further enriched gold and silver mineralization, along water table levels.
The known gold mineralization extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 2,500 feet in the Vortex deposit in the east.
Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves
Our mineral reserve estimates are calculated in accordance with subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K under the Modernization of Property Disclosures for Mining Registrants. Proven and probable mineral reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of proven and probable mineral reserves as required and in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of proven and probable mineral reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees.
Our estimated proven and probable mineral reserves were determined in 2019 and have been adjusted to reflect depletion solely from mining activities through December 31, 2020. Our mineral reserves are based on prices of $1,200 per ounce for gold and $16.50 per ounce for silver. The gold and silver prices used in estimating mineral reserves were lower than the trailing 3-year average price of $1,272.66 per ounce for gold and $16.53 per ounce for silver at the time they were established. The average London Bullion Market spot metal prices for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $1,393, $1,268 and $1,257 per ounce for gold, respectively, and $16.21, $15.71 and, $17.04 per ounce for silver, respectively. Below is a summary of our estimated proven and probable mineral reserves as of December 31, 2020.
Below is a summary of our estimated proven and probable mineral reserves as of December 31, 2019 that were determined in 2019 and have been adjusted to reflect depletion solely from mining activities through December 31, 2019.
•Mineral reserves estimated at $1,200/oz Au and $16.50/oz Ag.
•Cut-off grades used a Net Smelter Return (NSR) calculation.
•Numbers in the table have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate and may not sum due to rounding.
We did not use metal or equivalent metal cut-off grades in estimating proven and probable mineral reserves set forth in the table above and the complexity of the ore body resulted in the use of multiple metallurgical recovery factors by domain and process method, as reflected in the NSR calculations contained in Section 12 of the Hycroft Technical Report. NSR calculations were used as the basis of proven and probable mineral reserve estimations and for decisions influencing operating strategy, mine planning and design, because of differing mining and processing costs, recoveries, and the influence of both gold and silver. Factors including the variable ore types and mineralogy, different process streams and metallurgical recoveries, and related haulage distance can all cause variability in mining and processing costs and block value. Consequently, calculation of the breakeven NSR contained no profit assumptions. Metallurgical recovery factors used to estimate proven and probable mineral reserves set forth in the table above are variable based upon the domain and processing method applied. Detailed domain specific metallurgical recoveries used to estimate proven and probable mineral reserves are set forth in Table 12-3 in Section 12 of the Hycroft Technical Report, including Au and Ag recoveries by domain for ROM Heap Leach Recovery, 3/4” Crushed Heap Leach Recovery, and 1∕2” Crushed Heap Leach Recovery.
The reference point for mineral reserves is ore delivered to the leach pad and does not include reductions attributed to anticipated leach recoveries. In the case of the Hycroft Mine’s open pit, all costs are accounted for during the optimization phase of pit limit planning. Once the optimum pit extents have been determined, the decision to mine the material has been made and the cost incurred; the only task remaining then is to determine the optimal routing of the material. General and administrative expenses, as applied at Hycroft, are a fixed cost and do not vary by the tons mined or processed. As such, general and administrative costs are applied as an annual cost in the mine planning and not applied as a dollar to ton of ore processed. All material routing is based on optimal destination determination accounting for all applicable costs, recoveries, and limits (i.e., crushing capacity).
Below is a summary of gold and silver ounces contained in our estimated proven and probable mineral reserves as of December 31, 2020 to reflect the reduction in mineral reserves resulting from mining in 2020, as compared to December 31, 2019:
Typical break-even individual single metal cut-off grade listed for informational reference in the Hycroft Technical Report (Table 12-7) is as follows:
The NSR calculation incorporates more than the typical single metal cutoff grades shown above, and the cutoff grades above, while typical, are not utilized in the estimation or reporting of mineral reserves. The NSR calculation covers all fixed and variable costs including mining, processing, sustaining capital deemed to be directly proportional to ore tonnage, general and administration, gross royalties, transport and shipping costs, smelting and refining costs, limits to payable metals, and refining penalties for deleterious metals. The following is an example of the method used to calculate the NSR expressed in US dollars per ton (US$/t):
NSR (US$/t) is calculated from the following equation:
NSR = (((Au Price - Au Selling) * Au Grade * Recovery Au * Au Refine) + ((Ag Price - Ag Selling) * Ag Grade * Recovery Ag * Ag Refine)) * (1 - Royalty) - Mine Cost - Process Cost - Soda Ash Cost - Sustaining Cost - G&A Cost
Where:
NSR
=
Net Smelter Return
Au Price=Au selling price in $ per troy ounce
Au Selling
=
bullion treatment and refining cost in $ per troy ounce
Au Grade
=
Au fire grade in troy ounces per ton
Recovery Au
=
% metallurgical recovery of Au by process route & domain
Au Refine
=
% payable for Au refining losses and deductions
Ag Price
=
Ag selling price in $ per troy ounce
Ag Selling
=
bullion treatment and refining cost in $ per troy ounce
Ag Grade
=
Ag fire grade in troy ounces per ton
Recovery Ag
=
% metallurgical recovery of Ag by process route & domain
Ag Refine
=
% payable for Ag refining losses and deductions
Royalty
=
% royalty (Note due to very limited royalty remaining, no royalty has been included)
Mine Cost
=
mining cost per ton by material type
Process Cost
=
process cost per ton by process type & domain
Soda Ash Cost
=
soda ash cost per ton
Sustaining Cost
=
sustaining cost per ton
G&A Costs
=
general and administrative cost per ton
In addition to the factors listed above, methods, material assumptions and criteria used for estimating mineral reserves, as set forth in Section 12 of the Hycroft Technical Report, are as follows:
•Costs were generated by Hycroft personnel, metallurgical recoveries were developed by M3 Engineering, and slope inputs supplied by Call and Nicholas and Golder Associates.
•An NSR was generated for each 40 ft x 40 ft x 40 ft block for each of the processing methods available at Hycroft, which are the following:
◦Run-of-Mine (ROM) Heap Leaching of oxide and transitional material;
◦3∕4” Crushed Heap Leaching of oxide and transitional material;
◦1∕2” Crushed Heap Leaching of transitional and sulfide material; and
◦Assumed gold and silver prices of $1,200 and $16.50 per ounce, respectively.
◦Economic pit limits were determined with Geovia Whittle® Strategic Planning software.
◦Open pit designs were completed utilizing Maptek Vulcan 3D mine design software.
◦Mine planning was completed using Minemax strategic and operational mine planning software and the processing method that returned the highest net value was selected. If all processing methods returned a negative value, the block was classified as waste.
Soda ash assumptions set forth in Table 12-4 in Section 12 of the Hycroft Technical Report were as follows:
Additional parameters used to calculate NSR included: (i) Whittle input parameters of the heap leach for oxide, transitional and sulfide ores and multiple cost and recovery factors by domain, as set forth in Table 12-2 of the Hycroft Technical Report; and (ii) heap leach metallurgical recoveries utilized in the Whittle optimization in mineral reserve determinations varying by redox, domain and process method, as set forth in Table 12-3 of the Hycroft Technical Report.
Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources
Our mineral resource estimates are calculated in accordance with subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K and are exclusive of mineral reserves. Measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral resources disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. The estimates of Mineral Resources may be materially affected if mining, metallurgical, or infrastructure factors change from those currently anticipated at the Hycroft Mine. Estimates of inferred mineral resources have significant geological uncertainty and it should not be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will be converted to the measured or indicated categories. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not meet the threshold for reserve modifying factors, such as estimated economic viability, that would allow for conversion to mineral reserves.
The Hycroft Mine contains a large precious metals deposit, based on measured and indicated mineral resource size. The resource information provided below was calculated by SRK Consulting (U.S.), Inc. ("SRK") during 2019 and also reflects the resource information as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020 as Hycroft did not deplete any resources from mining activities through December 31, 2020.
•Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and do not meet the threshold for reserve modifying factors, such as estimated economic viability, that would allow for conversion to mineral reserves. There is no certainty that any part of the mineral resources estimated will be converted into mineral reserves and no mineral resources are assumed to be converted into mineral reserves in the Hycroft Technical Report.
•Open pit resources stated as contained within a potentially economically minable open pit; pit optimization was based on assumed prices for gold of $1,400 per ounce and for silver of $18 per ounce, variable Au and Ag Recoveries based on geometallurgical domains, a mining cost of $1.45 per ton, variable ore processing costs based on geometallurgical domains, and G&A cost of $0.65 per ton, and a pit slope of 45 degrees;
•Open pit resources are reported based on calculated NSR block values and the cutoff therefore varies from block to block. The NSR incorporates Au and Ag sales costs of $0.75 per ounce beyond the costs used for pit optimization;
•Numbers in the table have been rounded to reflect the accuracy of the estimate and may not sum due to rounding;
•Mineral resources are reported exclusive of mineral reserves.
We did not use metal or equivalent metal cut-off grades in estimating measured, indicated or inferred mineral resources set forth in the table above, as no mining of mineral resources has been incorporated into the contemplated 34-year mine plan set forth in the Hycroft Technical Report, and the complexity of the ore body resulted in the use of multiple metallurgical recovery factors by ore body, as reflected in the NSR calculations contained in Section 11 of the Hycroft Technical Report. NSR block calculations were used as the basis for measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources estimations and open pit mineral resources are reported based on calculated NSR block values and the cutoff therefore varies from block to block. SRK worked with our predecessor to construct updated three-dimensional wireframes for alteration and oxidation zones uses geo software. Estimation of gold, silver, sulfur and rock hardness in a three-dimensional block model was completed by SRK and is reflected in Section 11 of the Hycroft Technical Report.
Metallurgical recovery factors used to estimate measured, indicated or inferred mineral resources set forth in the table above, are variable based upon the domain and processing method applied. Detailed domain specific metallurgical recoveries used to estimate measured, indicated or inferred mineral resources are set forth in Table 11-21 in Section 11 of the Hycroft Technical Report, including Au and Ag recoveries by domain for ROM Heap Leach Recovery, 3∕4” Crushed Heap Leach Recovery, and 1∕2” Crushed Heap Leach Recovery.
Measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources were estimated based upon an open pit optimization utilizing the following assumptions:
•assumed prices for gold of $1,400 per ounce and for silver of $18 per ounce;
•variable Au and Ag Recoveries based on geometallurgical domains;
•mining cost of $1.45 per ton;
•variable ore processing costs based on geometallurgical domains;
•G&A cost of $0.65 per ton;
•pit slope of 45 degrees; and
•NSR incorporates Au and Ag sales costs of  $0.75 per ounce beyond the costs used for pit optimization.
Please see Table 11-21 in Section 11 of the Hycroft Technical Report for a more detailed tabular presentation of the resource pit optimization parameters for oxide, transitional and sulfide ores and multiple cost and metallurgical recovery factors by domain that were also used in the calculation of block NSR values for reporting purposes.
Below is a summary of gold and silver ounces contained in our estimated measured, indicated, and inferred resources as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020, as there were no reductions to mineral resources from mining in 2020:
Cautionary Note to Investors
Information concerning our mineral properties in the Hycroft Technical Report and in this 2020 Form 10-K includes information that has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Modernization of Property Disclosures for Mining Registrants set forth in subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K which we elected to adopt early and became widely applicable on January 1, 2021. These standards differ significantly from the previously applicable disclosure requirements of Industry Guide 7 in that mineral resource information was not permitted and mineral reserves have been calculated in accordance with the provision of subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K.
Under SEC standards, mineralization, such as mineral resources, may not be classified as a “mineral reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time of the mineral reserve determination by a qualified person as defined by subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K. The term “economically,” has been interpreted to mean that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a pre-feasibility or feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally” as it relates to the definition of mineral reserves, has been interpreted not to imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a mineral reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with our current proposed mine plans. As used in this 2020 Form 10-K, the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are defined and used in accordance with the Modernization of Property Disclosures for Mining Registrants set forth in subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K. You are specifically cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits (including any mineral resources) in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves, as defined by the SEC.
You are cautioned that, except for that portion of mineral resources classified as mineral reserves, mineral resources do not have demonstrated economic value. Inferred mineral resources have a high degree of uncertainty as to their existence as to whether they can be economically or legally mined. Estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of an economic analysis. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. A significant amount of exploration must be completed in order to determine whether an inferred mineral resource may be upgraded to a higher category. Therefore, you are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists, that it can be economically or legally mined, or that it will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Likewise, you are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated mineral resources will ever be upgraded to mineral reserves.
Internal Controls and Material Assumptions
Seller’s drill hole database has been validated by Seller’s exploration group. A review and validation of the collar coordinate, down-hole survey, and geology data was completed in the third quarter of 2014 by Seller’s predecessor’s geologists.
SRK completed data verification and validation in advance of geological modeling and resource estimation, first between May and July 2017, for gold, silver, sulfide sulfur, and total sulfur analytical results, and for logged geological data. During this review, the analytical databases were found to be incomplete. SRK worked with Seller’s predecessor to extract all available analytical data from the acQuire database. This resulted in a 58% increase in the sulfide sulfur dataset. The compilation of gold and silver assay values in parts per million (PPM) units resulted in more intervals with valid Au CN:FA values for oxide modeling, and greater precision for grade estimation. SRK completed data verification for the new analytical database in September 2017.
Model validation was approached through visual and statistical methods. Visual comparison was done on sections and in plan for each area of the deposit. Statistical comparison was achieved using comparative population statistics and swath plots. Reconciliation of the model, excluding fill, to available production data was completed. Material mined by Seller’s predecessor between 2008 and 2015 was compared to blocks in the mined volume. Model and production data are summarized in the Hycroft Technical Report. The model compared well to historical production records for total gold ounces. The model has about 5% more tonnage, and about 4% lower gold grade, than the reported production. Reported silver grade was about 7% lower than what was predicted by the model and resulted in silver ounces produced about 12% less than what was predicted from the block model.
A visual inspection of the model in plan and section confirmed that grades were well correlated between the blocks and the composite data in each area.
Statistics by interpolation domain (grade shell) were used to compare the Au and Ag NN (polygonal) and OK and IDW, where applicable, grades against each other. The NN interpolation method provides a declustered representation of the sample grades and therefore, the resulting mean grades of any other method should be similar to the mean grade of the NN estimate at a zero-cutoff grade. For Au, the OK estimates were within acceptable tolerances of the NN; approximately ±3% for each domain.
The global mean estimated OK grade at zero cut-off was within ~1% of the NN estimate. For Ag, the OK and IDW estimates were within acceptable tolerances of the NN; approximately ±5% for each domain, with the higher variances corresponding to the poorly sampled Bay and Lewis domains. The global mean estimated grade at zero cut-off was within ~1.2% of the NN estimate.
A swath plot is a graphical display of the grade distribution derived from a series of bands, or swaths, generated in several directions through the deposit. Using the swath plot, grade variations from the OK and IDW (where applicable) model are compared to the distribution derived from the NN grade model.
On a local scale, the NN model does not provide reliable estimations of grade, but on a much larger scale it represents an unbiased estimation of the grade distribution based on the underlying data. Therefore, if the OK/IDW model is unbiased, the grade trends may show local fluctuations on a swath plot, but the overall trend of the OK/IDW data should be similar to the NN distribution of grade.
Swath plots were generated along east-west, north-south directions, and for elevation. Swath widths were 200 feet wide for both east-west and north-south orientations, and 80 feet wide in the vertical. Au grades were plotted by OK/IDW (red traces) and NN (blue traces) for all estimated blocks.
Based on the swath plots, it was concluded that there is a reasonable correlation between the modeling methods. The degree of smoothing in the OK/IDW model is evident in the peaks and valleys shown in some swath plots; however, this comparison shows close agreement between the OK/IDW and NN models in terms of overall grade distribution as a function of easting, northing, and elevation; especially where there are high tonnages (as shown by the vertical bars on the plots).
Given that process recoveries and costs in the resource model are grade and/or domain dependent, the application of standard cut-off grades for resource reporting purposes is not feasible. The resources are, therefore, reported with respect to a block NSR value which is calculated on a block-by-block basis. The resource is also constrained by an optimized (Whittle) resource pit, in order to demonstrate that the defined resources have reasonable prospects of eventual economic extraction, a part of the New Mining Rules criteria. All classification categories were considered in the resource pit optimization. The estimation of the NSR values and development of the Whittle resource pit requires assumptions around technical and economic parameters such as process recoveries, mining methods and operating costs.
Drilling
Our exploration model includes data from 1981 to December 2018 and includes 5,501 holes, representing 2.5 million feet of drilling. Exploration drilling was started in 1974 by Duval Corporation, and continued through various owners. Seller’s predecessor commenced systematic exploration and resource development drilling starting in late 2006. Drilling has been focused on oxide mineral reserve delineation, sulfide resource definition, sulfide exploration, condemnation drilling for facilities, silver data and both geotechnical and metallurgical core samples. A combination of rotary, reverse circulation and core drilling techniques has been utilized to verify the nature and extent of mineralization. From late-2006 to August 31, 2016, Seller and its predecessor completed 1,970 exploration holes, totaling approximately 1.45 million feet.
Seller drilled an additional 54 holes, totaling 4,706 feet starting in December 2018 through April 2019 confirming the grades of the previously mined sulfide ore stockpiles, which we have been using as the initial ore feed for Seller’s restart operations.
Drill hole collar locations are shown in the figure below.
Consistent with Seller’s suspension of mining operations and conducting only care and maintenance activities on the Hycroft Mine, during 2017 and through December 2018, they did not conduct additional drilling activities, other than to obtain ore for testing purposes. In December 2018, Seller began confirmation drilling of certain sulfide ore stockpiles that we planned to mine.
Any expansion of the Hycroft Mine necessary to exploit any additional mineral reserves that may be established through our exploration drilling program that are not located within the 34-year mine plan contemplated in the Hycroft Technical Report, will require us to obtain all permits, approvals and consents of regulatory agencies responsible for the use and development of mines in Nevada.
ITEM 3.