ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Reserves
We control one of the largest bases of industrial mineral reserves in North America. From our reserves, we are able to produce a broad range of specialized silica sand, micro crystalline silica, feldspar, nepheline syenite, clay, and kaolin for use by our Energy segment and Industrial segment customers in North America and around the world.
According to SEC Industry Guide 7, reserves are defined as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves are categorized into proven (measured) reserves and probable (indicated) reserves, which are defined as follows:
•
Proven (measured) reserves. Reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (ii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
•
Probable (indicated) reserves. Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Our reserves meet the definition of proven or probable reserves in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7. We estimate that we have approximately 1.0 billion tons of proven or probable mineral reserves, with estimated recoveries between 11% and 98%, as of December 31, 2019. Mineral reserve estimated quantities and characteristics at our properties are overseen by our internal geologists and engineers and validated by an independent third party consulting company, GZA GeoEnvironmental, Inc.
We assess the economic viability of our minerals reserves for each operation primarily by evaluating the following key criteria for mining feasibility: estimate of saleable quality reserves; percent recovery following processing; overburden stripping and other operational costs and annual production volumes. These factors are considered in preparation of a mine plan that ultimately estimates the tons of product to be sold per year and the estimated life of the mine. Historical mineral prices are considered in the context of market supply and demand dynamics to further assess the long-term economic viability of the mineral reserve assets. Certain reserves of properties previously owned by Fairmount Santrol have been reclassified to resources or have been reclassified as probable reserves as a result of policy and practice harmonization following the Merger, which include minimum drill core spacing and permitting requirements. Additionally, reserve estimates have been updated to reflect changes to the understanding of the various ore bodies as well as new economic assumptions over the price of frac sand (range of $25 to $35) in 2019. Prices assumed for industrial plants were left relatively unchanged from 2018 ($25 to $40). These changes have not materially altered the weighted average life of mine. The reserve estimates are updated annually based on sales, changes to reserve boundaries, new physical or chemical information on the reserve deposit or overburden, changes in the mine plan, changes in customer demand, current pricing forecasts and other business strategies.
Summary of Reserves
The following table provides information on each of our mining facilities with mineral reserves. Included is the location and area of the facility; the type, amount and ownership status of the location’s reserves and whether or not they meet API standards; the primary minerals produced; and the primary industries served:
Facilities
We currently have 36 active mining facilities with reserves, six active coating facilities, 10 inactive facilities (including six development sites), and approximately 1.0 billion tons of proven and probable mineral reserves in North America, making us one of North America’s leading industrial mineral producers.
Mining Facilities with Reserves
The mineral rights and access to mineral reserves for the majority of our facilities are secured through land that is owned. There are no underlying agreements and/or royalties associated with the owned properties. For leased properties where there are associated agreements and/or royalties, we have provided more information in the facility descriptions below. We are required to pay production royalties on a per ton basis pursuant to our mineral reserve leases. For the year ended December 31, 2019, total royalty expense associated with these agreements was $11.2 million in royalty payments, representing approximately 0.7% of our revenues.
Ahuazotepec, Puebla, Mexico. We acquired our Ahuazotepec facility in 1997 from Vitro, the leading Mexican glass manufacturer. The facility was built in 1958. The Ahuazotepec facility produces sodium feldspar for sanitary ware, floor tiles and glass markets. The facility is in Ahuazotepec County, Puebla, and consists of approximately 1,100 acres of owned real property. It is about 25 miles from the city of Tulancingo, Hidalgo. The facility uses natural gas and electricity to process feldspar and has an annual capacity of approximately 412,000 short tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 57%. The net book value of Ahuazotepec’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $17.4 million at December 31, 2019. The processed dry material is shipped via truck to customers.
The mine is an open-pit, the overburden consists of an altered basalt that is removed with an excavator and hydraulic hammer. A bulldozer is then used to extract the non-compact crystalline tuff. This material is loaded and hauled to a nearby washing plant, where it is processed by screening and washing. The processed wet feldspar is then loaded and hauled to the nearby Ahuazotepec facility where the drying, screening and magnetic separation processes are applied. A portion of the coarse feldspar is ground in the Ahuazotepec facility and a portion is sent in bulk by truck to our Benito Juárez grinding facility, in Monterrey, Nuevo León, for further particle size reduction for ceramic applications.
The Ahuazotepec mine extracts a Tertiary volcanic tuff, which is characterized by containing sub-angular grains, with a size of medium to coarse of anorthoclase feldspar and iron oxide staining. The mining sequence must focus on the selection of three types of quality intended for markets in ceramic glazes, sanitary ware bodies and floor tiles. The main quality parameters are: (i) the product contents of iron oxide and (ii) aluminum oxide. Also, ore is selected based on the color that is defined by the Cielab L index. The facility has a dedicated ceramic process circuit, where the plant produces a material that is separated into two ranges of grain sizes: coarse feldspar-6+20 mesh that it is used for the ceramic market and fine-20 mesh that is used for the glass applications.
Beaver (Southern), Ohio. Our Beaver, Ohio facility, acquired in 1994 from Schrader Sand and Gravel, is located in Jackson Township, Pike County, Ohio and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at this facility are secured under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal options, expire in 2024. The facility, which is approximately six miles northeast of Beaver, Ohio, is accessible via County Road 521. The facility utilizes electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining. The total net book value of the Beaver facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $5.6 million at December 31, 2019.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Beaver facility is the Sharon Conglomerate. The Beaver facility produces high purity, sub-angular grain silica sand and gravel. Mining at the Beaver facility is completed on a seasonal basis. Existing equipment dates to the 1960’s and is repaired as needed during the winter months; in addition, equipment (dating to 2013 or newer) has been acquired. The annual mining capacity is approximately 425,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 10%. The deposit has a minimum silica content of 99% and is ideal for turf/landscaping and industrial applications. The controlling attribute is cleanliness, which is controlled through wet processing.
Camden, Tennessee. We acquired the Camden facility from the Morie Company in 1996, Morie purchased the plant in the late 1970’s from Hardy Sand Company, and Hardy Sand operated the plant for approximately 20 years prior. The facility is located in Camden, Benton County, Tennessee, off U.S. Highway 70, 90 miles west of Nashville. The site utilizes natural gas for drying and electricity to process sand. The facility consists of approximately 900 acres of owned and approximately 1,100 acres of leased real property. The leased property consists of pipeline right of ways and sand reserves. The lease for the pipeline, with the exercise of renewal options of five to 10 years, expires in 2035. The remaining lease has unlimited renewal options. The total net book value of the Camden facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $8.4 million at December 31, 2019.
The Camden facility mines sand via load and carry operations. The facility operations consist of washing, flotation, drying and screening processes to make finished product. Since its acquisition, Covia has made several upgrades to the facility, including safety, operational and rail loading improvements. Currently, annual capacity is approximately 837,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 58%. Additional capacity expansions are possible depending on market conditions.
The Camden facility utilizes approximately 4,100 linear feet of rail. The sand mined at the Camden facility is sub-angular sand, which is suitable for glass, mineral fillers, foundry and general industrial use. Final product is shipped from the facility via bulk truck or bulk rail via the CSX railroad.
The site mines in an open-pit manner in the McNairy Sand. The local sand section is medium to fine grained in the upper part of the deposit (B2 grade sand) and is fine grained in the lower section (B1 grade sand). Mining is conducted from two independent pits to obtain feed from both the B2 and B1 sections of the deposit to support glass and foundry sand production. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of product iron oxide; (ii) the percentage of retained product-140 mesh sand; and (iii) the percentage of product-140 mesh fines fraction.
Canoitas, Coahuila, Mexico. The Canoitas facility was constructed in 1988, and was acquired by Covia in 1997 from Vitro, the Mexican glass manufacturer. The Canoitas facility mainly produces glass sand. It is in Hidalgo County, Coahuila, Mexico, approximately 55 miles northwest of Nuevo Laredo City, and is accessible via State Highway 2. The Canoitas facility utilizes diesel, heavy oil and electricity to process sand. Annual capacity at the Canoitas facility is approximately 1.2 million short tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 89%. The processed material is shipped via bulk truck to customers. The total net book value of the Canoitas facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $61.0 million at December 31, 2019.
The facility’s open-pit operations require drilling and blasting to fragment the silica cemented sand. The material is loaded and hauled with wheel front end loaders and rigid frame haul trucks for feeding the crushing system. The material is processed by primary and secondary crushing, screening, milling, attrition, hydro sizing, drying and magnetic separation.
The Canoitas facility extracts silica sand ore from the Carrizo Sand. The sandstone section is mined in two benches to optimize blending capabilities to support the production of glass, ceramic and foundry sand products. Mine development is focused on optimizing extraction of glass grade sand with an iron oxide content of less than 0.065%. Sand containing an iron oxide content above 0.065% is directed to the production of colored glass and float glass grade products. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are (i) the percentage of product iron oxide and (ii) the percentage of product aluminum oxide.
Beneficiated wet sand from the Canoitas facility is shipped via trucks to our Lampazos facility for further processing. The Lampazos facility produces flint glass grade by leaching, drying and magnetic separation processes of the Canoitas sand material. The wet sand is also dried and ground to produce ceramic grade materials. The products produced at the Lampazos facility are shipped via trucks to customers in northeastern Mexico.
Chardon, Ohio. Our Chardon, Ohio facility is located in Geauga County, Ohio and consists of owned real property. The facility, which is approximately two miles south of Chardon, is accessible via State Route 44. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining.
The mine was opened in 1938 and acquired by Best Sand in 1978. We acquired the mine as a result of the merger of Wedron Silica and Best Sand in 1986. Upgrades were made to the wash plant in 2009, the fluid bed dryer in 2012 and the rotary dryer circuit in 2012. The total net book value of the Chardon facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $57.1 million at December 31, 2019.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Chardon facility is the Sharon Conglomerate formation. This plant produces high purity, sub-angular grain silica sand and gravel used for industrial and recreational markets. The mining capacity is approximately 1.1 million tons per year and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 53%. The surface deposit at the Chardon facility is a high purity, sub-round grain silica sand/gravel. The deposit has a minimum silica content of 99% ideal for glass and foundry applications. The contributing attributes are iron and grain size distribution. The mine’s iron averages 0.084%.
Cleburne, Texas. We acquired our Cleburne facility in 1983 from Martin Marietta. The facility has been in operation since 1976. The facility is located near Cleburne, Johnson County, Texas, approximately 50 miles southwest of Fort Worth, Texas and is accessible via State Highway 67 via U.S. Interstate Highway 35W. The site consists of 2,075 acres of owned real property and utilizes
natural gas and electricity to process sand. Annual capacity at the Cleburne facility is approximately 1.4 million tons of sand and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 76%. The total net book value of the Cleburne facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $11.7 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped via truck and is also transloaded onto the Fort Worth & Western Railroad.
The mine is an open-pit operation where silica sand is mined and transported to the facility via trucks. Mine operations are completed on a year-round basis. The whole grain material is then washed, dried and screened and sold for proppant, glass, commercial and industrial applications. The Cleburne facility also has a grinding facility for producing products servicing fiberglass, construction and ceramics.
The Cleburne facility derives its silica sand ore from the Paluxy Formation. The sand section is mined in a single bench. Dozer and excavators are used to mine ore from multiple sections of the stripped mining cuts to support optimizing production of glass and frac sand products. End users are the frac sand, glass/industrial, and ground product businesses. The Cleburne plant meets or exceeds all frac sand and industrial customer specifications.
Crane, Texas. We began construction on our Crane location in December 2017. The facility is located near the town of Crane, Crane County, Texas, and consists of approximately 7,600 acres of leased real property. The Crane deposit was a greenfield discovery in 2017. The reserves are secured by lease agreements. The facility is located approximately 50 miles southwest of Odessa and is accessible via U.S. Highway 385 & FM 1233. The facility commenced shipments and final processing refinements in late July 2018 and has an annual capacity of approximately 3 million tons. Utilization in 2018 (year of commissioning) was 16% and utilization in 2019 was 75%. The total net book value of the Crane facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $93.1 million at December 31, 2019.
The mining process at Crane is open-pit and carried out by excavators and articulated haul trucks capable of operating around the clock on a daily basis. Run of mine material does not require crushing and will be washed, dried, and screened for size before being loaded into five silos, each with a 4,000 ton capacity. The Crane facility derives its raw feed from Quaternary eolian sand dunes. The deposit is mined for frac sand and meets or exceeds all customer API specifications.
Dividing Creek, New Jersey. Our Dividing Creek facility is located near Dividing Creek, Cumberland County, New Jersey and consists of over 2,100 acres of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at the Dividing Creek facility are secured under a mineral lease that expires in 2035 and has a renewal option through 2065. The facility is located approximately 30 miles south of Philadelphia and is accessible via State Highway 55 as well as State Highway 77. The facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Annual capacity is approximately 971,600 and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 70%. The total net book value of the Dividing Creek facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $8.2 million at December 31, 2019. Finished product is shipped via truck and rail with over 7,600 linear feet of rail. We use the Winchester & Western railroad to move minerals from the Dividing Creek and Gore facilities to customers via access to the Norfolk Southern and CSX railroads.
Materials are pumped from the mine location to the processing facility. The processing facility has distinct circuits to produce glass and construction products as well as frac sand. The glass circuits utilize beneficiation techniques to remove iron and other impurities that are detrimental to glass and construction customers. The frac circuits rely upon wet sizing to produce 100 mesh frac sand. The facility utilizes stock pile towers for the draining of materials prior to drying. The Dividing Creek facility was upgraded over the last five years with frac sand capacity additions and a new fluid bed dryer.
The Dividing Creek facility derives its silica sand ore from the Cohansey Formation. Mining is completed on a year-round basis. The facility utilizes dredge mining and is completed using two dredges operating in separate ponds. Products are sold into the glass, construction, and frac sand businesses. The Dividing Creek plant meets or exceeds all API and industrial customer specifications.
Elco, Illinois. We acquired our Elco facility in 1989 from The Illinois Minerals Company. The facility is located in Tamms, Alexander County, Illinois and consists of over 11,000 acres of owned and leased real property and mineral rights. The majority of the reserves are owned and approximately 10% are secured under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal options, expire between 2023 and 2034. The Elco facility is approximately 130 miles southeast of St. Louis and is accessible via major highways, including U.S. Interstate Highways 55 and 57. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process silica. The facility’s capacity is approximately 60,000 tons annually and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 71%. The total net book value of the Elco facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $2.7 million at December 31, 2019.
The Elco facility performs an initial size reduction of the ore prior to drying. From the dryer, the material is then deagglomerated and classified and conveyed to silos for shipping or packaging. Material from Elco is sold into the coatings, ceramics, rubber and
cementing industries. The Elco facility derives its microcrystalline silica (tripoli) ore from the Clear Creek Chert. The deposit is mined in an open pit utilizing multiple benches to optimize blending capabilities and allow for more efficient segregation of primary tripoli ore and cement grade tripoli (chert).
Emmett, Idaho. We acquired our Emmett facility in 1983 from Martin Marietta. The facility has been in operation since 1953. The facility is located in Emmett, Gem County, Idaho, approximately 30 miles northwest of Boise, Idaho, and is accessible via State Highway 52. The site consists of 723 acres of owned real property and utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Annual capacity at the Emmett facility is approximately 253,000 tons of sand. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 41%. The total net book value of the Emmett facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $2.4 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped via truck and rail using the Idaho Northern Pacific railroad with access to the Union Pacific railroad.
The mine is an open-pit operation where feldspathic silica sand is mined and transported to the facility via trucks. Mining, wet processing and grinding operations are scheduled ten months out of the year to avoid cold weather. Drying and screening operations are performed all year long from damp stockpiles. The whole grain material is then washed, ground, dried and screened and sold for glass, fiberglass, construction, golf, and industrial applications. The Emmett facility also has a packaging facility for producing bagged products servicing construction, filtration, as well as, the sports and leisure industries. The Emmett facility derives its feldspathic sand ore from the Idaho Group. The deposit is mined in multiple benches. The Emmett plant meets or exceeds all industrial customer specifications.
Gore, Virginia. We acquired our Gore facility in 1972 from Virginia Glass Sand. The facility is located in Gore, Frederick County, Virginia, approximately 12 miles west of Winchester, Virginia. The site consists of approximately 1,100 combined acres of owned and leased real property and utilizes propane and electricity to process sand. The facility’s mineral reserves are secured by a lease that expires in 2033. Annual capacity at the Gore facility is approximately 750,000 tons of sand and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 75%. The total net book value of the Gore facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $5.6 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped via truck or rail. The Winchester and Western Railroad transports rail deliveries from Gore.
Mining operations consist of two open-pit quarries where sandstone ore is mined and transported to the facility via haul trucks. Mine operations are completed on a year-round basis. The material is crushed, ground, sized, floated, dried, screened, and sold for flat glass, container glass, grouts, foundries, and insulation. Byproducts are used on golf courses, horse farms and at cement plants.
The facility derives its silica sand ore from the Oriskany Sandstone. The consolidated sandstone section occurs within two limbs of an anticlinal structure trending across the property. Mining is occurring on the Cove Ridge (northwest limb) and the South Quarry (southeast limb) sections of the deposit. Overburden shale and poor-quality sandstone are selectively removed as part of stripping operations to uncover the targeted economic portion of the sandstone section. Stripping operations are performed by regional excavation contractors. Mining is conducted in multiple benches on each limb to optimize ore blending capabilities. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of iron oxide to support glass product production; and (ii) the percentage of +40 mesh agglomerated sand clusters remaining after crushing.
Guion, Arkansas. We acquired our Guion facility from Silica Products in 1988. The facility has been in operation since 1917. It is located in Guion, Izard County, Arkansas, approximately 95 miles west of Jonesboro, Arkansas and is accessible via County Highway 58 off County Highway 9 via U.S. Interstate Highway 40. The property consists of approximately 3,000 acres of owned real property and 300 acres of leased property (the lease is perpetual as long as we are transporting over it, mining it, sand is being shipped from our mill, and we are paying the royalty). The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. The Guion facility utilizes approximately 6,900 linear feet of rail, including 4,500 linear feet for raw sand and 2,400 linear feet for a resin-coated sand product. Annual capacity is approximately 1.2 million tons of sand and approximately 180,000 tons of resin-coated sand. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 82%. The total net book value of the Guion facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $61.0 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped via truck or rail using the Missouri Northern Arkansas railroad connecting with the Union Pacific railroad.
The sand reserve is mined from the St. Peter Sandstone. Covia utilizes both open-pit and underground mining, with the reserves located at depths of up to 200 feet. The underground mine utilizes a “room-and-pillar” mining method with both horizontal and vertical blasting. The facility utilizes multiple stages of crushing and washing to produce materials that meet API standards for proppant products as well as glass and foundry sand products. Mining operations are completed on a year-round basis.
The Guion facility has an integrated resin coating sand facility that can receive materials from the adjacent Guion silica sand facility or substrate from our other facilities. The resin coating facility has two processing lines, each with the capacity to coat 180 million pounds, or 90,000 tons, per year of substrate. The facility has the flexibility to coat various substrates using novolac or resole technology. The Guion resin facility was idled in 2019.
The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in both open-pit and underground mining operations with approximately 40% of the facility feed derived from the open-pit operation and approximately 60% from the underground mine. The deposit typically contains varying degrees of calcite cementation in the upper part of the section and increased silica cementation in the lower part of the section. The ore control process is optimized by blending feed from multiple underground workings and from the open pit. The primary key quality parameter controlling mine sequence development is the percentage of the -40/+70 mesh sand fraction.
Hephzibah, Georgia. We acquired our Hephzibah facility in 2000 from Albion Kaolin Company. The facility is located in Hephzibah, Richmond County, Georgia and consists of over 1,700 acres of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at the Hephzibah facility not owned by us are secured under a mineral leases that expires in 2022. The facility is located approximately 15 miles southwest of Augusta and is accessible via State Highway 88. It utilizes methane, natural gas, and electricity in its production processes. Annual capacity is approximately 236,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 92%. The total net book value of the Hephzibah facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $4.9 million at December 31, 2019. Finished material is shipped via truck and via rail using the Norfolk Southern railroad with approximately 6,400 linear feet of rail.
The Hephzibah property also produces construction grade sand which is mined, processed, and marketed by a regional materials contractor. This sand is produced from the overburden above the clay. Production of this material reduces the volume of overburden removal that the plant must perform to access the clay.
The Hephzibah facility utilizes open-pit mining methods to feed the facility. Overburden removal, and clay mining are both performed by a regional excavating contractor, who specializes in kaolin. After mining, the material is then shredded and sent to one of two processing lines or fed directly in a continuous blunger for producing slurry products. One of the processing lines produces materials primarily for ceramics utilizing deagglomerating systems with classifiers. The second system utilizes milling and classifying circuits to produce materials for the fiberglass industry. The final product is shipped via bulk truck and rail or via Intermediate Bulk Containers (“IBCs”).
The Hephzibah facility derives its kaolin clay ore from the Buffalo Creek Formation. At the Hephzibah operation the mineable clay ranges in thickness from 0-24 feet. The clay ore section is subdivided into three mining units (Form, Sperse and Bond) to facilitate blending to formulate the facility’s ceramic and fiberglass grade products. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of +325 mesh “grit” fraction; (ii) the percentage of product iron oxide; (iii) the percentage of product titanium oxide; and (iv) the specific surface area (“SSA”) of the clay product.
Huntingburg, Indiana. We acquired the Huntingburg facility in 1999 from United Clays, but the facility has been in operation since 1981. The facility is located in Huntingburg, Dubois County, Indiana, approximately 40 miles east of Evansville, Indiana, and is accessible via State Highway 231 North to State Highway 64 West from U.S. Interstate Highway 64. The site consists of 10.3 acres of owned real property and utilizes natural gas and electricity to process calcium carbonate and clays. Annual capacity at the Huntingburg facility is approximately 79,000 tons of processed calcium and clay minerals and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 31%. The total net book value of the Huntingburg facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.1 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped via truck in bulk or bagged quantities.
The mine is an open-pit operation where two Indiana Fire Clays are mined. The mine is located approximately 6 miles from the plant site. The mining process is campaigned annually, where a large stockpile of the clays is staged. The clays are transported to the plant processing facility throughout the year. The clays are shredded, ground, dried and packaged for brick, chemical stoneware, ceramics, sealants, rubber, and other commercial and industrial applications. The calcium carbonate is purchased from a third party and is ground, dried, packaged for rubber, anti-stick, ceramic glaze and other commercial and industrial applications.
The Huntingburg facility derives its fire clay ore primarily from the Brazil Formation. The clay ore section is derived from “underclays” associated with overlying organic-rich coal and lignite seams. Overburden shale and limestone are selectively removed to expose the target economic portion of the ball clay section. The primary clay ore unit is termed “WT” or white clay. Within the overburden section, a second clay seam, termed “RD” or red clay, is mined as a byproduct to WT clay production. The extent of overburden stripping is controlled by the thickness of consolidated limestone occurring within the section. The key quality parameters
defining clay ore quality and controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of iron oxide; (ii) the percentage of carbon; and (iii) the percentage of sulfur.
Jaltipan, Veracruz, Mexico. The Jaltipan facility was constructed in 1955 and was acquired by us in 1997 from Vitro. The facility is located at Jaltipan, Veracruz State, Mexico and is approximately 19 miles southwest from the Minatitlan City airport. The Jaltipan facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Its annual capacity is approximately 1.2 million short tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 87%. The total net book value of the Jaltipan facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $22.2 million at December 31, 2019. The processed material is shipped via truck and rail using Ferrocarril del Sureste, commonly known as Ferrosur. The Jaltipan facility ships directly to the glass and foundry industries in central Mexico via trucks and the Ferromex railway.
The Jaltipan facility extracts silica sand ore in an open-pit operation from the Filisola Formation. The unconsolidated sand section is mined in multiple benches to produce glass and foundry sand products. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of product iron oxide and (ii) the percentage of total -140 mesh fine waste.
We utilize excavators and trucks in an open-pit environment to produce feed for the Jaltipan facility. The mine operation requires the extraction of interburden plastic clays as waste material that are disposed in dumps or employed in the construction of pond dikes. The mine also needs an effective dewatering operation because the water table is as shallow as 66 feet above sea level. The mining operation is carried out between minus 16 feet to 100 feet above sea level. The material is preprocessed on a pre-washing stage with mud hog, screening and dewatering processes. The preprocessed material is pumped via slurry pumping for 1.6 miles to the Jaltipan facility. The final processes applied at the Jaltipan facility are hydraulic sizing, flotation, drying and magnetic separation.
A portion of beneficiated dry sand from the Jaltipan facility is shipped via trucks to our Tlaxcala facility, which produces glass fiber grade product. Tlaxcala utilizes grinding and high efficiency classifier processes. The Tlaxcala facility ships its product to customers in glass and foundry industries in central Mexico via trucks.
Junction City, Georgia. We acquired our Junction City location from the Morie Company in 1996. The facility is located in Mauk, Marion County, Georgia and consists of leased real property. The mineral reserves are secured by a lease that expires in 2033, which Covia has the option to extend through 2053. The facility is approximately 50 miles east of Columbus, Georgia and accessible via State Highway 90. Annual capacity at the Junction City facility is approximately 887,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 59%. The total net book value of the Junction City facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $9.7 million at December 31, 2019. Finished product is shipped via truck and via rail using the CSX railroad. The Junction City facility uses approximately 3,000 linear feet of rail. The facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand.
The Junction City facility receives ore from open-pit hydraulic mining systems. It produces low iron and ultra-low iron sand products as well as coarse products. The low iron process involves washing the materials and classifying them into glass grade and industrial grades. Materials are sent to drainage areas to reduce moisture prior to being fed to the drying and screening circuit. The ultra-low iron products utilize the washing process as well as a beneficiation process to lower finished product iron values. Product from the beneficiation process is stored in a covered storage area to maintain quality control prior to being fed to the drying and screening circuit. End products are shipped via bulk rail, truck, IBCs and bags.
The operations at the Junction City facility have recently undergone a capital investment to upgrade the water conservation circuit that will allow increased operating time for the washing and beneficiation circuits. The facility currently services the glass, ceramics, concrete, industrial, and fiberglass industries.
The Junction City facility derives its silica sand ore from the Cusseta-Blufftown Sands. The sand section is mined in a single bench. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of product iron oxide; and (ii) the percentage of retained product +40 mesh sand fraction.
Kermit, Texas. Our Kermit, Texas reserves are located eight miles east of Kermit, Winkler County, Texas and consists of approximately 3,250 acres of leased property. The Kermit deposit was a greenfield discovery in 2017. The location is accessible via Highway 115 with access to the Delaware and Midland basins. The facility mines sand through the excavation method and uses natural gas and electricity to process sand. The sand will be transported by slurry to the processing plant where it will be washed, screened, and dried. The finished product will be shipped via truck. The plant began commercial production in mid-2018. The mining capacity is approximately 3.0 million tons. Utilization in 2018 (year of commissioning) was 14% and utilization in 2019 was 50%. The total net book value of the Kermit facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $214.7 million at
December 31, 2019. The Kermit facility derives its raw feed from Quaternary eolian sand dunes. The deposit is open-pit mined for frac sand and meets or exceeds all customer API specifications.
Lugoff, South Carolina. Covia acquired the Lugoff operation in 1983 from Martin Marietta. The facility has been in operation since the early 1970’s. Located just outside of Lugoff, Kershaw County, South Carolina, the operation consists of approximately 1,800 acres of leased real property. The reserves are secured by a lease agreement that expires in 2057. The facility is located approximately 20 miles northeast of Columbia, South Carolina, and is accessible via U.S. Interstate Highway 20. Annual capacity at the Lugoff facility is approximately 850,000 tons of sand and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 30%. The total net book value of the Lugoff facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $1.4 million at December 31, 2019.
Processed material is shipped via truck. Shipment by rail is also available via the CSX railroad, but not used. The mine is an open-pit operation where silica sand is mined using a front-end loader to dig sand from the face and transport it to a hopper. From the hopper, the sand is slurried and pumped to the plant. The plant sizes damp sands that are dried or sold damp to the golf, cement and EQ industries. Dried material is used for foundry, golf, cement, commercial and industrial applications. The Lugoff facility also has a grinding mill for producing products servicing the fiberglass industry.
Marston, North Carolina. We acquired our Marston operation in 1983 from Carolina Silica. The facility is located in Marston, Richmond County, North Carolina and consists of over 2,400 acres of owned and leased real property. The Marston facility is approximately 50 miles west of Fayetteville, NC and is accessible via U.S. Highway 1. Annual capacity at Marston is approximately 1.1 million tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 82%. The total net book value of the Marston facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $8.1 million at December 31, 2019.
Processed material is shipped via bulk truck or by bulk rail using the CSX railroad. The facility operations consist of washing, beneficiation, drying, screening, grinding, and classifying processes to make finished product servicing the concrete, ceramic, industrial, glass, fiberglass, foundry and sport and leisure industries. Marston derives its silica sand ore from the Pinehurst Sand. The sand section primarily is mined in a single bench. Open-pit mining is conducted using loaders to excavate sand from the unconsolidated above water mining face.
McIntyre, Georgia. We acquired our McIntyre facility in 2000 from Albion Kaolin, but the facility has been in continuous operation since the early 1900s. The facility is located in McIntyre, Wilkinson County, Georgia, and consists of approximately 2,100 acres of owned and leased real property and mineral rights. The reserves are secured by lease agreements that expire between 2021 and 2036. The facility is approximately 30 miles east of Macon, Georgia and 20 miles south of Milledgeville, Georgia, and is accessible via U.S. Highway 441. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process kaolin clay. Annual capacity at the McIntyre facility is approximately 238,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 50%. The total net book value of the McIntyre facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $8.2 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped in bulk or bag via truck. Shipment by rail is also available via the Norfolk Southern railroad.
The kaolin clay reserves are mined from multiple open-pits within a 35-mile radius of McIntyre. Overburden ranges from 50 to 120 feet with clay seams ranging between 15 and 40 feet. Crude clay is delivered to a covered crude shed at the plant via dump trucks on a year-round basis. The milling operation is fed from the crude shed via front-end loaders. Crude clay is processed via drying and milling/classifying equipment into a minus 325-mesh powder and stored in concrete silos until bagged or loaded into bulk trucks or railcars for shipment.
The McIntyre facility derives its kaolin clay ore from the Huber Formation. The operation extracts its ore feed from multiple mining pits. The clay is subsequently blended to formulate the plant’s fiberglass, ceramic and functional filler products. Mining is completed by a third-party contractor working under an established mining supply agreement. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) GEB Brightness; (ii) the percentage of Residue (+325 mesh); (iii) SSA; (iv) the percentage of clay passing 2 micron particle size; and (v) the percentage of iron oxide.
Menomonie, Wisconsin. Our Menomonie, Wisconsin facility is located in Menomonie, Dunn County, Wisconsin and consists primarily of leased real property. The mineral reserves at our Menomonie facility are secured under mineral subleases that expire in 2044. We constructed the Menomonie facility in 2007 approximately two miles east of Menomonie and it is accessible via US Highway 12 / State Highway 16. The Menomonie facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting, and mechanical mining. Mined sand is processed and shipped by truck or rail. A remote transload facility adjacent to the Union Pacific (“UP”) Railroad is located approximately one mile north of the site.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit at the Menomonie facility is derived from the Wonewoc Sandstone. The ore deposit at the Menomonie facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99%, which meets API requirements for proppant applications. Both hydraulic fracturing sand proppants and industrial sands for glass manufacturing are produced by the operation. In 2018, a total of 230,000 net tons of proppant sand and 167,000 net tons of industrial sand were shipped. The three year average utilization rate is 44% based on an operational capacity of approximately 750,000 net tons per year. The total net book value of the Menomonie facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $11.9 million at December 31, 2019. The controlling attributes are grain size, iron oxide, and turbidity. Maximum average full face iron content is 0.080%. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in top half of deposit. Turbidity is controlled though the use of attrition scrubbers during wet processing. Iron is controlled during processing through the use of magnetic separators.
Nephton, Ontario, Canada. We acquired our Nephton and Blue Mountain facilities in 1990 from Indusmin LTD. The facilities are located in Havelock-Belmont-Methuen Township in central-eastern Ontario, Canada. They are located approximately 60 kilometers north of Peterborough and consist of over 4,300 acres of leased real property. These facilities use propane and electricity to process nepheline syenite. Annual capacity at the Nephton and Blue Mountain facilities is approximately 1.1 million tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 58%. The total net book value of the Nephton facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $71.6 million at December 31, 2019. The facilities have over 30,000 linear feet of rail. Processed material is shipped via truck and rail using the Canadian Pacific railroad.
The facilities derive nepheline syenite ore from igneous intrusives metamorphosed during the Grenville Orogeny. The nepheline syenite ore section is open-pit mined in multiple benches to optimize blending capabilities and to allow for the more efficient removal of inner burden waste. Deposit definition employs both core and more tightly spaced percussion drilling to provide adequate grade control information to support the facility’s mining operations. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of iron oxide; (ii) the percentage of aluminum oxide; (iii) the percentage of sodium oxide; and (iv) the percentage of calcium oxide.
We utilize drill and blast processes in an open-pit environment to produce feed for the facility. Material is transported from the mine to the facility utilizing rigid frame haul trucks. The material is sent through drying, crushing, screening and beneficiation steps for producing products for the glass and ceramics industries and feed for grinding operations. Grinding operations for the coatings and polymers industries utilizes high efficiency classifiers for producing products that have distinct size distributions meeting customer requirements. Products are packaged in gravity and positive displacement railcars, bulk pneumatic trucks, IBCs and bags. The facility services customers in the abrasives, cement, ceramic, industrial, glass, fiberglass, coatings and polymer industries.
Beneficiated dry sand material from nepheline syenite operations in Nephton is shipped to our Tamms and Troy Grove facilities in Illinois for further processing. The Tamms facility receives nepheline syenite for grinding in circuits specifically designed for supplying the polymer industry. The facility utilizes grid electricity and finished material is packaged in IBCs and bags. The Troy Grove facility receives nepheline syenite for grinding in a dedicated circuit designed for supplying the coatings industry. The material is only produced for bulk customers. In order to produce products for the coatings industry at the Troy Grove facility, Covia installed a high efficiency classifier at the facility in order to produce products that have the necessary particle size distribution for coatings. The Troy Grove facility utilizes grid electricity.
The Blue Mountain facility is undergoing a substantial capital investment program to modernize the facility and expand our grinding capacity to serve the coatings and polymers markets.
Oregon, Illinois. We acquired our Oregon facility in 1983 from Martin Marietta. The facility is located in Oregon, Ogle County, Illinois and consists of owned real property. It is located approximately 30 miles southwest of Rockford and is accessible via State Highway 2. The Oregon facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand.
Annual capacity at the Oregon facility is approximately 1.7 million tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 75%. The total net book value of the Oregon facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $14.9 million at December 31, 2019. Processed sand is shipped via truck or rail. The Oregon facility has unit train capabilities using the BNSF Railway and over 15,000 linear feet of rail.
We utilize drill and blast processes in an open-pit environment to produce feed for the facility. In-pit crushing, screening and secondary crushing are utilized to generate hydraulic classifier feed. The crushing and hydraulic classification operations are seasonal and large stockpiles are created to feed the facility during winter months. From the classified material piles, the facility utilizes drying and screening operations to produce frac, foundry, glass and construction products. Products are shipped via bulk rail, bulk truck, via
IBCs and bags. Over the last five years, we have invested in projects to increase frac sand capacity at the Oregon facility as well as its reserve base.
The Oregon facility derives its silica sand ore from the St. Peter Sandstone. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in two benches to optimize blending capabilities to support the production of glass and frac sand products. Occurrences of iron oxide in the deposit tend to be higher in the lower mining bench. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of iron oxide, aluminum oxide and magnesium oxide to support glass grade product production; and (ii) the percentage of retained product 140 mesh sand fraction.
Ottawa, Minnesota. We acquired our Ottawa location in 1971 from Gopher State Silica and in 1978 completed brownfield construction of its current Ottawa facility. The facility is located in Le Sueur, Le Sueur County, Minnesota, approximately 65 miles southwest of Minneapolis. It consists of approximately 2,650 acres of owned real property and is accessible by using major highways, including U.S. Interstate 169. The facility uses natural gas and electricity to process sand. Processed material is shipped via rail using the Union Pacific railroad utilizing the site’s 10,000 linear feet of rail. Currently, annual capacity is approximately 688,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 92%. The total net book value of the Ottawa facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $4.5 million at December 31, 2019.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine is from the Jordan Sandstone. The mine has overburden ranging from 10 to 100 feet that needs to be removed to access the silica sand reserves. The facility is a load and carry operation with wheel loaders feeding conveyors to the in-pit crushing system. The mining operations are completed on a year-round basis. The silica sand is processed via multiple steps of crushing and then is dried and screened to produce API grade silica sand proppant, glass sand, foundry sand and products for the construction industry.
The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in two benches to optimize production of glass, foundry and frac sand products. The upper bench ore is medium to coarse grained and the underlying bench is largely fine to medium grained. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of iron oxide; (ii) the percentage of aluminum oxide; and (iii) the percentage of -40/+140 mesh sand fraction distribution. Mine production recently has been augmented with the extraction of sand previously disposed of in the facility’s tailings cells.
Pevely, Missouri. We acquired the Pevely facility from Bussen Quarries and the Masters Brothers Silica Sand Co in 1991. The Pevely facility is located in Pevely, Jefferson County, Missouri and consists of entirely owned real property. It is located approximately 30 miles southwest of St. Louis and is accessible via U.S. Interstate Highway 55. The Pevely facility utilizes natural gas, propane and electricity to process sand. The facility’s capacity is approximately 627,000 tons annually and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 70%. The total net book value of the Pevely facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $15.3 million at December 31, 2019. We ship processed sand via truck, and barge and railcars on the Union Pacific railroad utilizing a local third party transloading facility.
We utilize drill and blast processes in an open-pit environment to produce feed for the facility. Mining operations are performed year-round. Overburden removal to access sandstone is typically performed under contract by a regional excavating contractor. Crushing, screening, deagglomeration, dewatering, drying and screening are utilized to produce final products. During the last five years, the Pevely facility has undergone a frac sand expansion and a crushing upgrade as well as an extension of the reserve base. The Pevely facility services the concrete, glass, foundry, frac sand and ceramics industries.
The Pevely facility derives its silica sand ore from the St. Peter Sandstone and mines from a single bench. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are the percentages of calcium oxide, iron oxide, and acid demand value (“ADV”) to support glass and foundry product production.
Portage, Wisconsin. We acquired the Portage facility from Martin Marietta in 1983. The facility is located in Pardeeville, Columbia County, Wisconsin and consists of owned real property. It is located approximately 30 miles north of Madison and is accessible via State Highway 51. The facility utilizes natural gas, propane and electricity to process sand. The facility’s capacity is approximately 660,000 tons annually and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 62%. The total net book value of the Portage facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $2.7 million at December 31, 2019. The facility utilizes approximately 3,500 linear feet of rail. Processed material is shipped via truck and rail using the Canadian Pacific railroad.
Mining at the Portage facility is completed on a seasonal basis. Material from the open-pit dredging operation is hydraulically transported to the facility. The facility creates a large stockpile for operations to utilize during the winter months. The facility utilizes wet screening and classifying circuits to prepare material for its drying and screening operations. During the last eight years, Covia has replaced the dredge at the Portage facility and completed upgrades to the drying, screening and packaging circuits. The facility produces products for the concrete, glass, foundry and frac sand industries. Materials are packaged in bulk rail, bulk truck, IBCs and bags.
The Portage facility derives its silica sand ore from the Wonewoc Sandstone. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone is mined by dredge. The primary below-water dredge mining process is augmented by sand feed derived from the above water sandstone section. Dozers are used to rip and push above-water sandstone into the dredge pond for follow-on extraction. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are (i) the percentage of iron oxide, aluminum oxide, and calcium oxide to support glass product production; (ii) the percentage of total -140 mesh fines; and (iii) deposit -20/+140 mesh fraction sieve distributions and associated grain fineness (“GFN”) numbers.
Roff, Oklahoma. We acquired our Roff facility in 1980 from Mid Continent Glass Co. The facility is located in Roff, Pontotoc County, Oklahoma and consists of over 3,200 acres of owned real property. It is located approximately 90 miles south of Oklahoma City and is accessible via U.S. Interstate Highway 35. The Roff facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand and has an annual capacity of approximately 1.2 million tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 90%. The total net book value of the Roff facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $4.3 million at December 31, 2019. The facility has approximately 5,000 linear feet of rail. Processed sand is shipped via truck and rail via the BNSF Railway.
The open-pit operations at the Roff facility utilize some surface equipment to transport material to a hydraulic mining and screening system for feed to the facility. The facility hydraulically transports the material to the plant for further wet screening, beneficiation, drying and final product screening. The facility produces material for the frac, glass, foundry and fiberglass industries. Products are only shipped in bulk containers via truck and or rail. Over the last five years, Covia has invested in infrastructure improvements (rail) at the Roff facility, production capacity for frac and glass and land acquisitions to improve the resource base.
The Roff facility derives its silica sand ore from the Oil Creek Formation. As a local facility, the Roff facility has a built-in cost advantage against sand that is shipped in from outside the basin. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in multiple benches to optimize blending capabilities and allow for more efficient removal of inner burden waste. The sandstone ore sections are commonly associated with fault structures that necessitate infill drilling to adequately delineate ore and waste boundaries and support pit design development.
The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of -40/+70 mesh sand fraction; and (ii) the percentage of iron oxide, aluminum oxide and calcium oxide to support glass product production.
Saint Canut, Quebec, Canada. We acquired the Saint Canut facility in 1990 from Indusmin LTD. The facility is located approximately 60 kilometers northwest of Montreal. It is accessible via Quebec Route 158 and consists of owned real property. The facility uses natural gas and electricity to process sand. Annual capacity at the Saint Canut facility is approximately 450,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 47%. The total net book value of the Saint Canut facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $1.6 million at December 31, 2019.
We use drill and blast processes in an open-pit environment to produce feed for the facility. The material is sent through primary and secondary crushing to stockpiles for feeding to the drying system. From the drying system, the sand material is sent through tertiary crushing, screening and beneficiation steps for producing products for the glass and construction industries. Products are shipped via the Quebec Gatineau Railway with access to both the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Canadian National Railway and truck. Product is packaged in bulk rail, bulk trucks, IBCs and bags.
The Saint Canut facility derives its silica sand ore from the Cairnside Sandstone. The sandstone is a high purity, with minimum silica content of 99.4% ideal for glass industries. The sandstone section is mined in two benches to optimize blending capabilities to support production of glass and construction sand products. Local elevated occurrences of high iron and calcium oxide bearing sandstone are present in the deposit, which requires adequate grade control monitoring and blending. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of product iron oxide; (ii) the percentage of aluminum oxide; and (iii) the percentage of calcium oxide.
San Juan, Veracruz, Mexico. The San Juan facility was acquired in 2003 from Silices San Juan, whose initial business was the extraction of gravel. The plant process and capacity were improved to produce glass sand for the float glass, and to a lesser extent for foundry and construction. The facility is in the San Juan Evangelista County, Veracruz, Mexico, and consists of 457 acres of owned real property. It is approximately 49 miles from the international airport of Minatitlán, Veracruz, and is accessible by the road 145 Tierra Blanca-Sayula de Alemán. The San Juan facility uses electricity to process sand and has an annual capacity of approximately 320,000 short tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 62%. The total net book value of the San Juan facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $3.8 million at December 31, 2019. The processed material is shipped via trucks in bulk to customers.
The mine operation uses excavators and trucks in an open-pit environment to generate feed for the San Juan facility. The mine overburden is formed by soil, clays and gravels which are disposed of or used in the construction of dams for tailings ponds. The ore body transitions in depth from coarse to medium grain sand. The processes that are used at San Juan are screening, hydro sizing, washing, separation by gravity (spiral) and hydrocyclone classification. The final product is damp sand.
The operation of the mine in San Juan extracts silica sand from Filisola formation of the upper Miocene. The non-consolidated sand section is mined in multiple benches to provide the product mix for glass and foundry sand products. The main key quality parameters which control the development of the mining sequence are: (i) the percentage of product iron oxide; (ii) the percentage of product aluminum oxide; and (iii) the percentage of product oxide of titanium. The specifications of the products also require controls of the coarse grains and fine material passing the 140 mesh.
Seiling, Oklahoma. We completed greenfield construction of the Seiling facility in 2019. The facility is located 10 miles west of Canton, Dewey County, Oklahoma and consists of owned real property. It is approximately 11 miles southeast of Seiling and is accessible via State Highway 51. The Seiling facility utilizes natural gas to process and dry sand. Annual capacity at the Seiling facility is approximately 2,000,000 tons. Utilization in 2019 (year of commissioning) was 34%. The total net book value of the Seiling facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $16.5 million at December 31, 2019.
Mining operations consist of an open-pit where sand is mined and transported to the facility stockpile via haul trucks. Stockpiled sand is fed into a hopper where water is added to produce a slurry for transport into the plant. A small volume of sand and organic material is removed as stripping to reduce root contamination. Mine operations are completed on a year-round basis.
The Seiling facility derives its frac sand ore from Quaternary aged eolian sand deposits. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 90% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The unconsolidated sandstone section is mined in a single bench to support production of frac sand products. The primary key quality parameter controlling mine sequence development is the percentage of the -30/+140 mesh sand fraction.
Troup, Texas. We acquired the Troup facility in 1999 from United Clays. The facility is located in Troup, Cherokee County, Texas and consists of over 2,600 acres of owned and leased real property. The facility’s mineral reserves are secured by either leases that expire between 2019 and 2036 or by perpetual leases that remain valid for so long as annual minimum royalties are paid. The Troup facility is located approximately 120 miles southeast of Dallas and is accessible via U.S. Interstate Highway 20. The Troup facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process ball clay. Annual capacity at the Troup facility is approximately 400,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 64%. The total net book value of the Troup facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $2.7 million at December 31, 2019. The facility has approximately 3,200 linear feet of rail. Processed material is shipped via truck and rail via the Union Pacific railroad.
The facility transports ore from the open-pit mining operations via over-the-road trucks. Material is deposited in drying sheds for preparation for processing. The material is shredded and placed in sheds for shipment or for feeding to the drying circuit for further processing. The original Shredding and Dryer processes were constructed in 1986 with additional shredded clay and crude clay storage being added later. The plant continues to use relay logic controls for all plant processes. The plant maintains a fleet of 3 front end loaders to move clay through the shredding and loadout processes. Additionally, the plant maintains two tracked excavators which are used to mine clay and miscellaneous ancillary mobile equipment to support mining and processing ball clay.
The Troup facility derives its ball clay ore from the Wilcox Formation. We extract crude clay ore feed from multiple mining pits to optimize blending capabilities. Crude clay grades are primarily delineated using water loss and loss on ignition testing (LOI). These clay grades are subsequently mined and blended to formulate the facility’s ceramic clay products. The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of loss on ignition (LOI); (ii) the percentage of carbon; (iii) the percentage of clay shrinkage; and (iv) the percentage of sulfur.
Tunnel City, Wisconsin. We completed greenfield construction of our Tunnel City facility in 2014. The facility is located in Tomah, Monroe County, Wisconsin, approximately 45 miles east of La Crosse. It consists of over 2,000 acres of owned real property and is accessible by using major highways, including U.S. Interstate 90. The facility utilizes natural gas, propane and electricity to process sand. Processed material is shipped via rail using the Canadian Pacific railroad. The Tunnel City facility is unit train capable with over 42,000 linear feet of rail. Annual capacity is approximately 3.2 million tons per year and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 64%. The total net book value of the Tunnel City facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $28.3 million at December 31, 2019.
The sand reserve is mined from the open-pit mine with ripping and dozing to feed the crushing facility. The mine operations are completed on a year-round basis. The silica sand is processed via two steps of crushing and is then wet sized, dried and screened to produce API grade silica sand proppants. It utilizes “advanced technologies” to minimize water and energy consumption, implemented process and design controls to help minimize impacts to the surrounding environment and is working to re-establish pine barren habitat, oak savannah habitat and native prairie plants to the landscape. Through its Tunnel City facility, Covia is also a Wisconsin DNR Habitat Conservation Partner for the Karner Blue Butterfly and is helping to re-establish a bat hibernaculum as a partner in the Wisconsin DNR’s Bat Habitat Program.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit is the Ironton and Galesville members of the Wonewoc Sandstone. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in two benches to optimize production of frac sand products. The upper bench derives sand feed primarily from the medium to coarse to fine grained sandstone section (Ironton-upper Galesville) and the underlying bench is comprised largely of medium to fine grained sandstone (Galesville). The primary key quality parameters controlling mine sequence development are: (i) the percentage of -20/+40 mesh sand fraction; (ii) the percentage of -40/+70 mesh sand fraction; and (iii) the percentage of silt and clay fraction to support optimizing filter press plant waste disposal operations.
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. We acquired our Tuscaloosa facility in 1996 from the Morie Company. The facility was originally opened in 1968 by Hardy Sand and has been in continuous operation ever since. It is located on the southern side of the city of Tuscaloosa in Tuscaloosa County off Highway 69 and consists of approximately 350 acres of leased real property. The mineral reserves at Tuscaloosa are secured under mineral leases that expire between 2020 and 2035. Annual capacity is approximately 270,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 31%. The total net book value of the Tuscaloosa facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $1.8 million at December 31, 2019.
Materials produced at Tuscaloosa are sold both dry and damp and are shipped via truck. The mine is a dredging operation where gravel, silica sand and clay is dredged. The dredge then pumps the mixture to the plant where the gravel is scalped off and sand is passed through a classifier, dried and placed into silos for load out. Damp sand is sold from the stockpiles. The Tuscaloosa facility derives its industrial sand ore from the Cottondale Formation. Oversize gravel is also sold as a byproduct as market demands warrant
Utica, Illinois. We acquired our Utica operation in 1980 from Bellrose Silica. The facility is located in Utica, La Salle County, Illinois and consists of over 2,800 acres of owned real property. It is approximately 10 miles west of Ottawa and is accessible from Interstate 80 via Illinois State Highway 178. The facility is unit train capable and has over 33,000 linear feet of rail. Processed sand is shipped via truck and rail using the CSX railroad. Product can also be shipped via barge at a transload facility within 10 miles of the Utica facility. The facility’s mining operations are completed year-round in an open-pit environment to produce its plant feed. There are three operating facilities on site that utilize the ore body (Utica 1, Utica 2 and Utica 3).
The facility’s total site capacity is approximately 3.4 million tons per year and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 74%. The total net book value of the Utica facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $39.2 million at December 31, 2019. Utica derives its silica sand ore from the St. Peter Sandstone. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications.
Wedron, Illinois. Our Wedron, Illinois facility is located in Wedron, LaSalle County, Illinois and consists of owned real property. The facility, which is approximately 6 miles northeast of Ottawa, Illinois, is accessible via County Highway 21 off of State Highway 71 and State Highway 23. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting, and hydraulic mining. Hydraulically mined sand is pumped to the wash plant to be hydraulically sized and sent to the dry plant where it is dried and screened.
Our Wedron facility and its predecessors have operated since 1890. The washing and drying operations at our Wedron facility were upgraded in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 in conjunction with significant capacity and reserve base increases. Significant railyard
expansions in 2014 and 2015 facilitated greater flexibility and provided for unit train capabilities. Processed sand is shipped from the facility via truck or rail on the BNSF and CSX Railroads via the Illinois Railnet. Our Wedron facility utilizes approximately 50,000 linear feet of rail. A portion of the sand is transferred by conveyor or trucked from our Wedron facility and is coated at our Technisand Wedron and/or Troy Grove, Illinois resin-coating facilities. Annual capacity is approximately 9.0 million tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 72%. The total net book value of the Wedron facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $166.2 million at December 31, 2019.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Wedron facility is the St. Peter Sandstone formation. The Wedron facility produces high purity, round grain silica sand that meets the API requirements for proppant application. The Wedron facility production capacity is approximately 9.0 million tons per year. The surface deposit at the Wedron facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99%, which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are iron and grain size. Iron is concentrated near the surface, where orange iron staining is evident and also increases where the bottom contact becomes concentrated in iron pyrite. Maximum average full face iron content is 0.020%. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in the top half of the deposit.
Processing Facilities
Apodaca, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. We acquired our Apodaca facility, then known as Molinos del Norte, from Quinsa Company in 2002. The facility is in Apodaca County, Apodaca, Nuevo Leon and consists of owned real property. The facility is 12 miles from Monterrey and is accessible via the Apodaca-Huinala road. The main process at the facility is grinding and it utilizes electricity. Annual capacity of the Apodaca facility is approximately 115,700 short tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 36%. The total net book value of the Apodaca facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $4.2 million at December 31, 2019.
The main product produced at the Apodaca facility is calcium carbonate which is ground from 45 to less than 5 microns. Calcium carbonate is used as a functional filler in the ceramics as well as the coatings and polymers industries. Materials needed for processing (white marble, talc and barite) are externally sourced and transported in via bulk truck and rail. The products produced at the Apodaca facility are shipped via bulk truck or in 50-pound paper bags by truck.
Benito Juarez, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Greenfield construction of our Benito Juarez facility was completed in 2001. This facility is in Benito Juarez County, Nuevo Leon and consists of owned real property. The facility is located 17.5 miles east of Monterrey and is accessed via Monterrey-Reynosa highway 40. The facility uses electricity to process its material and has an annual capacity of approximately 138,900 short tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 87%. The total net book value of the Benito Juarez facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $1.5 million at December 31, 2019.
The Benito Juarez facility produces sodium feldspar, which is supplied to ceramics, sanitary-ware and tiles manufacturers who are in the same industrial area as the facility. Feldspar for the facility is supplied from the Ahuazotepec facility via truck. The Benito Juarez facility produces ground products with particle sizes less than 75 microns and they are shipped via bulk trucks over short distances to end users.
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. We acquired our Lakeshore facility in 2000. It has been in operation since 1963. It is located in Hamilton, Ontario and is accessible via the QEW highway and consists of leased real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets. The facility processes lake sand GFN 50-80 (dried) and silica sand (damp) and serves the foundry, sports and recreation, building products, and glass industries. Lake sand is received from a supplier via vessel and product is dried, screen, and stored in silos. Products can be shipped to customers via bulk truck or bulk bag methods. Annual capacity of Lakeshore is approximately 336,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 39%]. The total net book value of the Lakeshore facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.8 million at December 31, 2019.
Lampazos, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. We acquired our Lampazos facility from Mexican glass producer Vitro in 1997, but the facility has been operating since 1970. The facility is in Lampazos County, Nuevo Leon and consists of owned real property. The facility is located 98 miles north of Monterrey and is accessed via Interstate NL1 road. The Lampazos facility utilizes heavy fuel oil and electricity to process its material. The processes at the facility are leaching, drying, magnetic separation and grinding. The annual capacity is approximately 441,600 short tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 77%. The total net book value of the Lampazos facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $10.0 million at December 31, 2019.
The Lampazos facility produces silica sands for tableware glass, ceramics and, to a lesser extent, foundry markets. The facility’s supply comes from the Canoitas facility, where it is transported as wet sand. The Lampazos facility mainly produces silica sand with low iron oxide content for the tableware glass market. It also generates ground products from 75 to 45 microns for ceramics industry manufacturers mainly located in the city of Monterrey. Finished material is shipped either in bulk or large bags via truck.
San Jose, Guanajuato, Mexico. We acquired our San Jose facility from Vitro in 1997. It has been in operation for more than 40 years. The facility is located in San Jose Iturbide County, Guanajuato and consists of owned real property. It is located 35 miles north of Queretaro and is accessed via Highway 57 Queretaro-San Luis Potosi. The San Jose facility generates two main products: silica sand and potassium feldspar. The facility utilizes electricity to process its material. The current primary process at the San Jose facility is grinding and its annual production capacity is approximately 100,000 tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 15%. The total net book value of the San Jose facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.1 million at December 31, 2019.
Ground silica sand and feldspar produced at the San Jose facility are supplied mainly to the electric ceramics industry. The potassium feldspar is supplied by a third party and silica sand as raw material is supplied by the Jaltipan facility. The products produced at the San Jose facility are shipped via bulk truck.
Tamms, Illinois. We acquired the Tamms facility from Tammsco, Inc. in 1986. This facility has been in operation since the early 1900’s and consists of owned real property located in Tamms, Alexander County, Illinois, just off State Highway 127, 20 miles north of Cairo, Illinois, the southernmost tip of the state. The site is currently a nepheline syenite milling/sizing operation utilizing electricity with an annual capacity of approximately 28,000 tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 87%. The total net book value of the Tamms facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $1.0 million at December 31, 2019.
We supply products produced at the Tamms facility to the coatings and polymer industries. The site receives partially processed nepheline syenite feedstock from the Nephton facility and subsequently processes the material to produce several grades of finished products, primarily less than 15 microns in size. The products are then bagged and shipped on van or container trucks.
Tlaxcala, Tlaxcala, Mexico. We completed greenfield construction of its Tlaxcala milling facility in 2010. This facility is in Tetla County, Tlaxcala and consists of owned real property. It is located 25 miles northeast of the city of Tlaxcala and is accessed via the road 119 Apizaco-Ciudad de Mexico. The facility utilizes electricity to produce ground products of silica sand. The annual capacity is approximately 105,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 92%. The total net book value of the Tlaxcala facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $1.5 million at December 31, 2019.
The Tlaxcala facility produces ground silica for the fiberglass industry. The silica sand is supplied from the Jaltipan facility. The Tlaxcala facility generates ground products with particle sizes from 75 to 45 microns and its processed material is shipped via bulk truck.
Troy Grove, Illinois. We acquired its Troy Grove facility from Martin Marietta in 1983. It has been in operation since 1960. The facility is located in Troy Grove, La Salle County, Illinois and consists of approximately 60 acres of owned real property. It is approximately 20 miles from Ottawa and is accessible via U.S. Interstate Highway 52. The facility uses electricity to process its material and has an annual capacity of approximately 39,000 tons. The average utilization rate over the past three years was 64%. The total net book value of the Troy Grove facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.9 million at December 31, 2019.
The Troy Grove facility supplies nepheline syenite to the coatings and polymers industries. The facility receives its feed stock from the Nephton facility. The facility then grinds and classifies the material into bins for sale via bulk truck or rail.
Inactive Facilities
Bay City, Wisconsin. Our Bay City, Wisconsin facility is located in Isabelle and Hartland Township, Pierce County, Wisconsin and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at the Bay City facility are secured under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal terms, expire between 2045 and 2106. The Bay City facility was opened in 1919 and operated continuously until 1989. We acquired the mine through the acquisition of Wisconsin Specialty Sand and constructed the associated Hager City processing (drying) plant in 2007. This underground mine is approximately 1.5 miles northeast of Bay City on State Highway 35. The reserves are located at a depth of 230 feet. The mine utilizes electricity to process sand. Mining methods include drilling and
blasting. As a result of the challenging conditions in the global oil and gas markets, these operations were idled in 2015. Although the processing facility was idled, the railyard remains active and provides unit train capabilities for the Maiden Rock facility.
Mined sand is shipped approximately five miles to the Hager City plant for further processing and eventual shipment via truck or rail on the BNSF Railroad. The Hager City plant, constructed by Wisconsin Industrial Sand Company, LLC in 2007, was expanded in 2013 and 2014 with the addition of a new rail yard containing approximately 19,000 linear feet of rail for assembling unit trains.
The sand reserve mined from the underground mine at the Bay City facility is the Jordan Sandstone. The Bay City facility produces high purity, round grain silica that meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 780,000 tons per year. The facility has been idled since 2015. The railyard remains active. The total net book value of the Bay City facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $2.5 million at December 31, 2019. The underground deposit at the Bay City facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity, acid solubility, and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution near the top of the deposit. Grain size distributions are maintained through control of mine horizon. Turbidity and acid solubility are controlled though the use of hydrosizers during wet processing.
Brewer, Missouri. Our Brewer, Missouri mine is located in Brewer, Perry County, Missouri and consists of owned real property. The facility, approximately one-half mile northwest of Brewer, Missouri, is accessible via State Highway M. We acquired the inactive mine in 2013. The operation was reactivated and began production in December 2014 but was idled in 2015 due to the challenging conditions in the global oil and gas markets. In January 2017, the decision was made to return Brewer to full production due to an increase in demand for proppants. The mine resumed production in the first quarter of 2017. In September 2018, the decision was made to idle the Brewer site due to reduced customer demand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Brewer facility is the St. Peter Sandstone. The deposit produces high purity, round grain silica that meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 1.3 million tons per year and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 29%. The total net book value of the Brewer facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.5 million at December 31, 2019. The surface deposit at the Brewer facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in top half of deposit. Turbidity is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and attrition scrubbers during wet processing.
Grand Haven, Michigan. Our Grand Haven, Michigan facility is located in Grand Haven, Ottawa County, Michigan. The mine and facility consist of owned real property that is subject to a reverter to the prior property owner in 2021. The mine and facility have been closed since 2014. There is no net book value assigned to the Grand Haven facility. The facility, which is approximately two miles south of Grand Haven, Michigan, is accessible via Lakeshore drive and US Highway 31.
The sand resource historically mined from the open-pit mine at the facility is a dune sand deposit. This surface dune deposit is a high purity, sub-round grain sand with minimum silica content of 96% ideal for foundry metal casting applications. The controlling attribute is ADV. The mine’s ADV ranges from 30-50. ADV is controlled through floatation during wet processing. The grain size distribution averages greater than 50% plus 50 mesh.
Kasota, Minnesota. We completed initial greenfield construction of our Kasota site in 1982. The facility is located in Kasota, Le Sueur County, Minnesota, approximately 75 miles southwest of Minneapolis. It consists of approximately 3,700 acres of owned real property and is accessible by using major highways, including U.S. Interstate 35. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. The site has grown through two capacity expansions, one in 2009, when 1.2 million tons of capacity per year was added to produce all grades of API grade silica sand proppant, and another in 2014, when 800,000 tons per year were added to produce 40/70 and 100 mesh grade silica sand proppants. Kasota was idled in 2019. Currently, annual capacity of the Kasota facility is approximately 3.0 million tons per year and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 66%. The total net book value of the Kasota facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $27.0 million at December 31, 2019. Processed material is shipped via rail using the Union Pacific railroad. The Kasota facility is unit train capable and utilizes approximately 25,000 linear feet of rail.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine is from the Jordan Sandstone. Dolomite cap rock ranging from 0-30 feet in thickness is removed to expose the silica reserves. The open-pit operations require drilling and blasting to fragment the sandstone. The facility
is a load and carry operation with wheel loaders feeding conveyors to the in-pit crushing system. The mining operations occur on a year-round basis. The silica sand is processed via multiple steps of crushing and then is wet sized, dried, and screened.
The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 99% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in two benches to optimize production of frac sand products. The upper bench ore is medium to coarse grained and the underlying bench is largely fine to medium grained. Mine production has been augmented with the extraction of medium to fine grained sand previously disposed of in the facility’s tailings cells
Maiden Rock, Wisconsin. Our Maiden Rock, Wisconsin facility is located in Maiden Rock, Pierce County, Wisconsin and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at the Maiden Rock facility are secured under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal options, expire between 2021 and 2046. The facility is within the Village and Township of Maiden Rock along State Highway 35. The Maiden Rock facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Maiden Rock produces from an underground mine utilizing a “room-and-pillar” mining method which includes horizontal drilling and blasting. The reserves are located at a maximum depth of 230 feet. After blasting, the sand is removed from the face of the tunnels with a front-end-loader and deposited into a hopper where it is combined with water to form a slurry. The slurry is pumped to the surface wash plant to be hydraulically sized and sent to the plant where it is dried and screened.
The Maiden Rock facility and its predecessors have operated since the 1920s. We acquired a 50% equity interest in the facility from Wisconsin Industrial Sand in 1997 and acquired the remaining equity interest in 1999. The washing and drying operations at the Maiden Rock facility were upgraded in 2012 in conjunction with a significant capacity increase. Processed sand is shipped from the Maiden Rock facility via truck or rail on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (“BNSF”) Railway. The Maiden Rock facility has a rail loadout facility that has approximately 5,000 linear feet of rail. This plant is unit train capable utilizing the new unit train railyard, approximately 16,000 linear feet at the Hager City facility.
The sand reserve mined from the underground mine at the Maiden Rock facility is the Jordan Sandstone. The Maiden Rock facility produces high purity, round grain silica that meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 1.3 million tons per year and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 34%. The total net book value of the Maiden Rock facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $2.1 million at December 31, 2019. The sandstone deposit at this facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99%, which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity, acid solubility, and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution near the top of the deposit. Grain size distribution is maintained through control of mine horizon. Turbidity and acid solubility are controlled though the use of hydrosizers during wet processing. The Maiden Rock facility was idled in 2019.
Shakopee, Minnesota. Our Shakopee, Minnesota facility is located in Shakopee, Scott County, Minnesota and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at our mine are secured by fee ownership and a lease agreement that, with the exercise of renewal options, expires in 2030. The facility is approximately four miles south of Shakopee, Minnesota and is accessible via US Highway 169. The Shakopee facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting, and mechanical mining.
Mining occurred at the Shakopee facility for a short time in the 1980s by others until the property was reclaimed. The mine was permitted by Great Plains Sand in 2012 and acquired by us in 2013, at which time we changed the name to Shakopee Sand LLC. The washing and drying operations were upgraded at the facility following the acquisition. Processed sand is shipped from the Shakopee facility via truck or by rail on the UP. As a result of reduced customer demand, the facility was idled in 2018 after being re-opened in 2017. Annual capacity is approximately 718,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 14%. The total net book value of the Shakopee facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $5.5 million at December 31, 2019.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Shakopee facility is derived from the Jordan Sandstone. The ore deposit is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99%, which meets API requirements for proppant applications. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in the top half of deposit. Turbidity is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and attrition scrubbers (scrubbers idled in 2018) during wet processing.
Voca (East), Texas. We completed greenfield construction of the Voca facility in 1996. The facility is located in Voca, McCulloch County, Texas and consists of owned real property. It is approximately 110 miles west of Austin and is accessible via State Highway 71. The Voca East facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process. Annual capacity at the Voca (East) facility is approximately 419,000 tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 46%. The total net book value of the Voca (East) facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.8 million at December 31, 2019. The Voca (East) facility was idled in 2018.
We use drill and blast processes in an open-pit environment to produce feed for the Voca East facility. Mine operations are year-round. Material is transported to the facility via rigid frame trucks. Material is processed through three stages of crushing for preparation to the hydraulic classification circuits and beneficiation circuits. Product from the wet processing circuits is stockpiled to reduce moisture and then fed to a natural gas fired dryer prior to finished product screening. Products produced from the Voca facility are utilized for frac sand. Product is shipped via bulk truck.
The Voca East facility derives its silica sand ore from the Hickory Sandstone Member of the Riley Formation. The silica sand product contains a minimum silica content of 96% and meets API standards for proppant applications. The sandstone section is mined in multiple benches to support production of frac sand products. The facility’s mine production recently has shifted to focus on the extraction of sand previously disposed of in the facility’s tailings cells. The primary key quality parameter controlling mine sequence development is the percentage of the -30/+140 mesh sand fraction.
Voca (West), Texas. Our Voca West, Texas facility is located in Voca, Mason and McCulloch Counties, Texas and consists of owned real property. The facility, which is approximately 1.5 miles southeast of Voca, is accessible via County Highway 1851, south of State Highway 71. Sand mining and processing operations were developed at the facility during 2008, with the construction of existing plants completed in 2012. We acquired the operations in 2013. The Voca West facility utilizes natural gas with propane back-up and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of thin overburden followed by drilling, blasting, and mechanical mining. Annual capacity at the Voca West facility was 1.2 million tons and the average utilization rate over the past three years was 38%. The total net book value of the Voca (West) facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.8 million at December 31, 2019. The Voca (West) facility was idled in 2018.
The sand reserve mined at our Voca property is the Hickory Sandstone Member of the Riley Formation. The Voca facility produces high purity, round grain silica which meets API requirements for proppant application. The surface deposit at the Voca West facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 98% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. Turbidity is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and attrition scrubbers during wet processing. Grain size is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and wet screening.
Wexford, Michigan. Our Harrietta, Michigan facility is located in Slagle Township, Wexford County, Michigan and consists of owned and leased real property. The facility, which is approximately three miles northeast of Harrietta, Michigan, is accessible via West 28th Road and State Highway 37. The facility utilizes recycled oil and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include mechanical removal of overburden and excavation of sand.
We acquired Wexford Sand from Sargent Sand in 1998. A new screen plant was installed in 2008. The processed sand is shipped from the Harrietta facility by bulk via truck or rail on the Great Lakes Central Railroad. The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Harrietta facility is a glacial outwash sand deposit for proppant applications. Glacial outwash is glacial sediments deposited by melting glacial ice at the terminus of a glacier. The mining capacity is approximately 625,000 tons per year. The total net book value of the Wexford facility’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets was $0.6 million at December 31, 2019. This surface deposit at the Harrietta facility is sub-round grain sand with minimum silica content of 96% ideal for foundry applications. The controlling attributes are ADV and grain size distribution.
As a result of challenging conditions in end markets, the Wexford plant was idled from 2014 to 2018. The plant reopened briefly in March 2018 but was idled in September 2018 due to reduced customer demand.
Development Sites
Cawood, Quebec, Canada. Our Cawood nepheline syenite prospect is located approximately 80 kilometers northwest of Ottawa, Ontario in the Cawood Township of southwestern Quebec. The Cawood property consists of 10 mineral claims (5112689 through 5112698). Covia is required to maintain these mineral claims by completing geologic work, or paying in lieu of geologic work, every two years. In 2018, geologic work was completed (diamond core drilling) that will maintain these mineral claims to approximately 2027, contingent upon Quebec Ministry review and approval.
The region lies within the Proterozoic Grenville Province of the Central Meta-Sedimentary Belt. The rock is characterized by upper amphibolite-granulite facies metamorphism and includes Grenvillian paragneiss, marble and orthogneiss with intrusions of late Proterozoic plutons and Phanerozoic easterly trending diabase dikes. The Cawood complex was identified as the only principal pluton within the property area by regional mapping and is bounded within our mineral claim block. The area has been geologically mapped. Qualitative evaluation has been completed through bulk sampling and diamond core drilling. Diamond core drilling was completed by us in 2001, 2015 and 2018.
The nepheline syenite is typically white to grey, medium grained and containing hornblende, biotite, magnetite and aegirine as mafic minerals. Grain size varies from fine to very coarse with the core of the complex having pegmatitic bands. Nepheline content varies from 10 to 25%.
There was no net book value assigned to the Cawood location’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets at December 31, 2019.
Dungannon, Ontario, Canada. The Dungannon nepheline syenite prospect is located approximately 2 kilometers east of Bancroft, Ontario within the Dungannon Township of southern Ontario. The Dungannon prospect consists of a total of 13 Patent Lands and one License of Occupation, for a total of 293.2 ha. The area lies within the Central Metasedimentary Belt of the Grenville Province. The majority of these lands are underlain by nepheline syenite gneiss and/or nepheline-feldspar pegmatites.
An economic evaluation was completed for Lots 25 through 29 of Concession 13 Dungannon Township (covered by Patents 9918, 9936 through 9939). No resource evaluations are available for the Morrison (Patents 9934 & 9935) or the Davis Quarry (Patents 9919 & 9920), nor the lands covered by Patents 9915 through 9917 and 9940 and License of Occupation 13624. The area has been geologically mapped. Qualitative evaluation has been completed though bulk sampling. Historic development of the Morrison and Davis quarries occurred in the late 1930’s and 1940’s for the feldspar market.
There was no net book value assigned to the Dungannon location’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets at December 31, 2019
Katemcy, Texas. Our Katemcy, Texas resources are located in Katemcy, Mason County, Texas and consist of owned real property. The mine property was purchased in September 2013 and is accessed via County Road 1222 and State Highway 87. The prospective mining area has not been developed and the property is currently used as agricultural land.
The sandstone resource at this proposed open-pit mine is derived from the Hickory Sandstone Member of the Riley Formation. This deposit is capable of producing high purity, round grain silica sand with a minimum silica content of 98% which meets API requirements for proppant applications. The controlling key quality attributes will be grain size and turbidity.
The total net book value of the Katemcy location’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets is included in the net book value of the Voca (West) facility.
Wedeen River, British Columbia, Canada. Our Wedeen River property is a magnetite prospect in British Columbia, Canada, approximately 8 miles north of the coastal town of Kitimat. The prospect is comprised of four Crown Granted mineral claims (Mineral Hill #1, #2, #3 and Summit). We acquired these properties during Unimin’s Indusmin acquisition. Several surrounding previously held mineral claims have been allowed to lapse due to the magnetite deposit being shown to lie wholly within our Crown Granted mineral claims. Geologic mapping and diamond core drilling (occurring between 1958-1962) has identified the deposit as an iron skarn deposit with high grade magnetite lenses (40-60% Fe) separated by low grade disseminated magnetite zones (5-15% Fe). In 1994, a resource estimate reported “almost 6 million net tons grading to 22.009% acid soluble Fe”, equivalent to 1.3 million tons of iron.
There was no net book value assigned to the Wedeen River location’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets at December 31, 2019.
Torreon, Coahuila, Mexico. Our Terrazo, and La Chiche properties are marble deposits, approximately 33 miles northwestern of Torreon, Coahuila Mexico. Terrazo is accessed via State Highway 40 Torreon-Cuencame, while La Chiche can be accessed via State Highway 49 Torreon-Jimenez. These properties were acquired as calcium carbonate mineral resources for our Apodaca facility. This commodity is used as a functional filler in the ceramics as well as the coatings and polymers industries. The mineral deposits are in Cretaceous limestone from de Aurora Formation located in skarn zone around the quartz monzonite igneous intrusion. Geologic mapping and diamond core drilling (occurring between 2007-2010) has identified the marble deposits. The resources of calcium carbonate in the Terrazo property are 1,201,000 net metric tons, while resources of calcium carbonate in La Chiche property are 5,776,000 net metric tons. There was no net book value assigned to the Torreon location’s real property, fixed assets, and right-of-use assets at December 31, 2019.
The mineral resource is a high concentration, marble product material. This mineral resource should define the reserves with a minimum calcium carbonate content of 98.5%, and a minimum LCIELAB value of 96.0 which meets specification requirements for filler and coating application.
The following map reflects the location of our mining, processing and development facilities in North America as of December 31, 2019, as well as the segment in which they serve. If a facility serves both the Industrial and Energy segments, we refer to them as Hybrid facilities:
The following table reflects the segment(s) served by various locations:
Product Delivery
We have established an oil and gas logistics network that we believe is highly responsive to our customers’ needs and includes distribution terminals in all major oil and gas basins, as well as selected locations to serve Industrial customers. These terminals are a combination of facilities that we own or lease, as well as properties that are owned and operated by third parties. They generally consist of rail and transload operations, plus in some cases additional storage and handling facilities.
ITEM 3.