ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We had an estimated 680 MMt of proven and probable coal reserves as of December 31, 2019. An estimated 238 MMt and 442 MMt of our proven and probable coal reserves are in Australia and the United States, respectively. Approximately 76% of our Australian Operations’ proven and probable coal reserves, or 181 MMt, are Met coal, composed of HCC, semi-hard coking coal, or SHCC, and pulverized coal injection, or PCI, coal. The remainder of our Australian Operations’ coal reserves are thermal coal. Approximately 83% of our U.S. Operations’ proven and probable coal reserves, or 365 MMt, are Met coal, composed of coal with high volatile content, or High-Vol (including sub-category A of High-Vol, or HVA, and sub-category B of High-Vol, or HVB), coal with medium volatile content, or Mid-Vol, and coal with low volatile content, or Low-Vol. The remainder of our U.S. Operations’ coal reserves are thermal coal.
The following maps show the locations of our mining properties in Australia and the United States, respectively.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 57
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 58
The following is a summary of general characteristics about our mining properties as of December 31, 2019.
(1)Proposed mine type and mining method.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 59
We control the coal mining rights across Curragh under the Tenements. The Tenements have expirations ranging from August 31, 2021 to July 31, 2044. With respect to certain of the Tenements, our rights to mine coal overlap with a petroleum tenure. Pursuant to the Mineral and Energy Resources (Common Provisions) Act 2014 (Qld), we are required to share information and coordinate our operations with the petroleum tenement holder. We do not believe that the presence of the overlapping petroleum tenure will restrict our coal mining operations at Curragh.
Subject to the exercise of our renewal rights thereunder, most of the leases at our U.S. mining properties expire upon exhaustion of the relevant reserves, which is expected to occur in 2048 at Buchanan; 2050 at Logan; 2067 at Greenbrier; 2070 at Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield; 2048 at Amonate; and 2051 at Russell County. One lease at Logan expires in 2032, but we expect to have mined the relevant reserves prior thereto. One lease at Greenbrier, covering approximately 2.4% of the total estimated reserves at Greenbrier, expires in 2020, and we are in negotiations with the lessor to extend this lease term.
Our right to commercially mine and recover coal reserves at Buchanan overlaps with the right of CNX Gas, LLC to commercially recover and develop coal gas interests from the mine area. We have entered into certain agreements with CNX Gas, LLC to regulate the interaction between, and coordinate, our respective operations.
We are not aware of any significant encumbrances or defects in title with respect to any of our mining properties. We believe we have secured all applicable environmental licenses and permits under applicable law and have all necessary permits and licenses regarding cultural heritage, native title and various other social issues. See Item 1. “Business-Regulatory Matters-Australia” for a discussion of the permitting conditions applicable to Curragh. See Item 1. “Business-Regulatory Matters-United States” for a discussion of the permitting conditions applicable to our U.S. Operations’ mining properties.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 60
The following table provides information about the principal equipment and facilities at, and infrastructure available to, our mining properties as of December 31, 2019.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 61
Generally, the mining equipment and facilities at our mining properties are in good condition. We focus on the long-term potential of each mining property and regularly monitor developments in the mining industry for technology improvements and new equipment that could help us increase efficiency and lower our costs. From time to time, we also update and improve other equipment and facilities to maintain their usefulness and optimize our competitiveness. We also partner with major vendors to replace equipment on a scheduled basis to maximize equipment productivity. As of December 31, 2019, the total book value for each of our operating mining properties and its associated plant and equipment, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, was $856 million for Curragh; $374 million for Buchanan; $243 million for Logan; and $120 million for Greenbrier.
The following table shows total coal production at our operating mining properties for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
(1)Reflects production for the full year ended December 31, 2018. For the period following our acquisition of Curragh on March 29, 2018 through December 31, 2018, total coal production at Curragh was 9.3 MMt.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 62
Our development and idle mining properties represent potential future coal production in addition to that of our current operating mining properties. Prior owners extensively explored each of the development and idle mining properties using continuous coring and rotary drilling methods. Based on previous exploration and the experience of other historical operations in the respective regions in which the properties are located, we have determined that the target coal seams at each such property are relatively consistent, with little structural deformation, making extraction of coal therefrom potentially profitable. Consequently, a significant amount of the total reserves at each of Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield, Amonate and Russell County are classified at the higher “proven” assurance level.
We anticipate conducting further exploration at each of the development and idle mining properties. Because each property has been extensively explored, however, we do not expect that any exploration program will require multiple phases. Currently, we have developed a detailed five-year exploration plan at the Pangburn property, for which we have budgeted a total of $1,050,000. Under the plan, most of the exploration will be focused on geotechnical and coalbed methane assessments of the reserves, for which we estimate $146,000 will be required. Also, approximately $76,000 will be spent on quality analysis of all coal samples that penetrate the target seam. Continuous core drilling combined with downhole geophysical surveys will be the primary method of exploration, for which we estimate $828,000 will be required. We anticipate that further exploration of the reserve at the Pangburn property will be necessary.
Other than with respect to the Pangburn portion of the Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield development mining property, the Company has not developed any current detailed plans or budget to conduct further exploration on its development and idle mining properties. Presently, the Company has conceptual exploration plans for these properties, which include continuous core drilling combined with downhole geophysical surveys. The Company expects to conduct minimal exploration with respect to these properties prior to production, the earliest of which is scheduled to occur at the Amonate property in 2025. The Company anticipates that scheduled production at Russell County and the Shaner and Fallowfield portions of the Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield mining properties will begin in 2035, 2033 and 2029, respectively.
The exploration programs at all of our U.S. Operations’ development and idle properties will be funded through a corporate development budget and will be conducted under the supervision of Coronado’s Chief Geologist, Joe Wickline, BS (Geol.), West Virginia University; PBACC (Mining Eng.), University of Pittsburgh; PG-Pennsylvania (PG005198); SME Registered Member (4264656). Mr. Wickline plans and supervises all exploration projects and conducts geologic and geotechnical evaluations on reserves for Coronado’s U.S. Operations. His experience includes geologic modeling, quality forecasting and reserve calculations using ABB MineScape computer software. Mr. Wickline also provides direct support to the U.S. Operations through roof scoping, in-mine geologic mapping and hazard identification.
At our operating Curragh mine, we have planned a drilling and 2-D seismic exploration program to define a potential underground resource on existing MLs and/or MDL162 for use in a feasibility study. Exploration works commenced in the fourth quarter of 2019 and are planned to continue through 2020, with a budget of $3,300,000 for all activity, including: drilling and logging; coal quality and washability assessment; geotechnical and coalbed methane assessments; and geological and structural modeling.
The exploration program at Curragh will be conducted under the supervision of Curragh’s Resource Geologist, Susan Dippel Forster, MSc (Geol), MAusIMM. Ms. Dippel Forster plans and supervises all exploration projects, maintains the geology Geobank database, manages all of the Tenements and conducts geological evaluations on resources for Coronado’s Australian Operations. Her experience includes geological, structural and coal quality modeling using Vulcan computer software. Ms. Dippel Forster also provides direct support to the Australian Operations through provision of groundwater data and advice on the geological and groundwater models.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 63
The following table provides a summary of our proven and probable coal reserves as of December 31, 2019. With respect to the U.S. Operations, the U.S. QPs (as defined below) derived the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 by updating the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018 prepared by the U.S. QPs to reflect appropriate reserve depletion and non-material deletion that occurred during 2019. Changes to the reserve estimates for the U.S. Operations as of December 31, 2019, when compared to the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018, are in line with management expectations.
(1)Reported on a 10.0% moisture basis at Curragh and a 4.5% - 6.0% moisture basis at the mining properties within the U.S. Operations, in each case including a combination of surface moisture and inherent moisture.
(2)Reported on a recoverable basis, after giving effect to estimated dilution and losses during mining and processing, assuming 100% longwall mining recovery, 40% - 70% continuous miner recovery and 95% CPP efficiency.
(3)The ranges of coal sales prices used to estimate our proven and probable reserves at Curragh as of December 31, 2019 were $92 - $130 per Mt for Met coal and $54 - $100 per Mt for thermal coal. The ranges of Met coal sales prices used to estimate our proven and probable reserves at our U.S. Operations’ mining properties as of December 31, 2018 were: $79 - $126 per Mt for Buchanan; $84 - $142 per Mt for Logan; $90 - $147 per Mt for Greenbrier; $104 - $142 per Mt for Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield; and $100 - $148 per Mt for Amonate and Russell County. The range of thermal coal sales prices used to estimate our proven and probable reserves at Logan, Greenbrier and Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield as of December 31, 2018 was $56 - $68 per Mt. With respect to the U.S. Operations, the U.S. QPs derived the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 by updating the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018 prepared by the U.S. QPs to reflect appropriate reserve depletion and non-material deletion that occurred during 2019.
(4)Estimated coal reserves were classified as proven reserves if they lay within 0.4 kilometers and 1.0 kilometers of a valid point of observation for our U.S. and Australian mining properties, respectively, resulting in an accuracy of plus or minus: 10% at Curragh; 21% at Buchanan; 20% at Logan; 19% at both Greenbrier and Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield; and 15% at both Amonate and Russel County.
(5)Estimated coal reserves were classified as probable reserves if they lay between 0.4 - 1.2 kilometers and 1.0 - 2.0 kilometers from a valid point of observation for our U.S. and Australian sites respectively, resulting in an accuracy of plus or minus: 20% at Curragh; 13% at Buchanan; 30% at Logan; 28% at Greenbrier; 17% at Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield; and 19% at both Amonate and Russell County.
(6)Assigned reserves represent recoverable coal reserves that were controlled and accessible at our operations as of December 31, 2019.
(7)Unassigned reserves represent coal reserves at currently non-producing locations that would require new mine development, mining equipment, or CPP facilities before operations could begin at the property.
(8) Volatile matter, or VM, percentage represents the mass of the components of coal, except for moisture, that are liberated from coal at high temperatures in the absence of air.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 64
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Proven and probable coal reserves are defined by SEC Industry Guide 7 as follows:
Proven (Measured) Reserves-Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
Probable (Indicated) Reserves-Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Barry Saunders, B. App. Sc. (App. Geol.); MAusIMM(CP); MAIG, a director of QGESS Pty Ltd., prepared a coal resource estimate for Curragh. From this, Paul Wood, B. Eng.; MAusIMM(CP), who is employed full-time as the Senior Life of Mine Planner of our subsidiary, Coronado Curragh, prepared the estimates of proven and probable coal reserves at Curragh. Together, we refer to them as the Australian QPs. K. Scott Keim, CPG, and Justin S. Douthat, PE, MBA, of Marshall Miller & Associates, Inc., whom we refer to as the U.S. QPs, prepared the estimates of proven and probable coal reserves at each of the U.S. Operations’ mining properties as of December 31, 2018, which the U.S. QPs updated to reflect reserve depletion and non-material deletion that occurred during 2019. We refer to the Australian QPs and the U.S. QPs, collectively, as the QPs.
The QPs estimated our proven and probable coal reserves in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 considering “modifying factors,” including mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors. Estimates within the proven category have the highest degree of assurance, while estimates within the probable category have only a moderate degree of geologic assurance. Further exploration is necessary to place probable reserves into the proven reserve category.
The QPs estimated coal reserves at each of our mining properties using historical geotechnical data available from numerous entities over time. Most of this information was obtained prior to our acquisition of the properties, using varying drilling and core-logging techniques, survey methods and testing procedures. As a result, in verifying such data, the QPs made certain assumptions about the adequacy of the processes performed and comparability of the data based on their professional experience and familiarity with the applicable property. The QPs then developed geological models for each of the properties using cut-off parameters for classifying reserves based on the geotechnical data they reviewed, their experience with coal mining in the applicable region and, for the production stage properties, results of mining operations.
Our staff of geologists and engineers worked with the QPs throughout this process and provided data from our own exploration and operating activities at the properties. We have internal control procedures, including internal verification of input data and geological modelling, subject to multi-level review, to help ensure the validity of the data.
The pricing information used to estimate our proven and probable coal reserves was based on prices under our existing contracts and price forecasts. Below is a description of some of the factors that could affect price forecasts for metallurgical and thermal coal products on a mine-by-mine and product-by-product basis. Differences between the assumptions and analyses included in the price forecasts and realized factors could cause actual pricing to differ from the forecasts.
Metallurgical. Several factors can influence Met coal supply and demand and pricing. Demand is impacted by economic conditions and demand for steel, and is also impacted by competing technologies used to make steel, some of which do not use coal as a manufacturing input. Competition from other types of coal is also a key price consideration and can be impacted by coal quality and characteristics, delivered energy cost (including transportation costs), customer service and support and reliability of supply.
Seaborne Met coal import demand can be significantly impacted by the availability of local coal production, particularly in leading Met coal import countries such as China and India, among others, as well as country-specific policies restricting or promoting domestic supply. The competitiveness of seaborne Met coal supply from leading Met coal exporting countries, such as Australia, the United States, Russia, Canada and Mongolia, among others, is also an important price consideration.
In addition to the factors noted above, the prices which may be obtained at each individual mine or future mine can be impacted by factors such as (i) the mine’s location, which impacts the total delivered energy costs to its customers, (ii) quality characteristics, particularly if they are unique relative to competing mines, (iii) assumed transportation costs and (iv) other mine costs that are contractually passed on to customers in certain commercial relationships.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 65
Thermal. Several factors can influence thermal coal supply and demand and pricing. Demand is sensitive to total electric power generation volumes, which are determined in part by the impact of weather on heating and cooling demand, inter-fuel competition in the electric power generation mix, changes in capacity (additions and retirements), inter-basin or inter-country coal competition, coal stockpiles and policy and regulations. Supply considerations impacting pricing include reserve positions, mining methods, strip ratios, production costs and capacity and the cost of new supply (new mine developments or extensions at existing mines).
The cost information that the QPs used to estimate our proven and probable reserves were generally internal projected future costs based on historical costs and expected future trends. The estimated costs normally include mining, processing, transportation, royalty, tax and other mining-related costs. Our estimated mining and processing costs reflect projected changes in prices of consumable commodities (mainly diesel fuel, natural gas, explosives and steel), labor costs, geological and mining conditions, targeted product qualities and other mining-related costs. Estimates for other sales-related costs (mainly transportation, royalty and tax) are based on contractual prices or fixed rates. Specific factors that may impact the cost at our various operations include:
Geological settings. The geological characteristics of each mine are among the most important factors that determine the mining cost. Our geology department conducts the exploration program and provides geological models for the life-of-mine process. Coal seam depth, thickness, dipping angle, partings and quality constrain the available mining methods and size of operations. Shallow coal is typically mined by surface mining methods by which the primary cost is overburden removal. Deep coal is typically mined by underground mining methods where the primary costs include coal extraction, conveyance and roof control.
Scale of operations and the equipment sizes. For surface mines, our dragline systems generally have a lower unit cost than truck-and-shovel systems for overburden removal. The longwall operations generally are more cost effective than bord-and-pillar operations for underground mines.
Commodity prices. For surface mines, the costs of diesel fuel and explosives are major components of the total mining cost. For underground mines, the steel used for roof bolts represents a significant cost. Commodity price forecasts are used to project those costs in the financial models we use to establish our reserves.
Target product quality. By targeting a premium quality, product, our mining and processing processes may experience more coal losses. By lowering product quality the coal losses can be minimized and therefore a lower cost per Mt can be achieved. In our mine plans, the product qualities are estimated to correspond to existing contracts and forecasted market demands.
Transportation costs. We have entered into arrangements with third parties to gain access to transportation infrastructure and services where required, including rail carriers and port owners. Where coal is exported or sold other than at the mine gate, the costs associated with these arrangements represent a significant portion of both the total cost of supplying coal to customers and of our production costs. As a result, the cost of transportation is not only a key factor in our cost base but also in the purchasing decision of customers. Our transportation costs vary by region. Our U.S. Operations’ domestic contracts are generally priced F.O.R. at the mine with customers bearing the transportation costs from the mine to the applicable end user. For direct sales from our U.S. Operations to export customers, we hold the transportation contract and are responsible for the cost to the export facility, and the export customer is responsible for the transportation/freight cost from the export facility to the destination. For sales of Curragh thermal coal to Stanwell, Stanwell is responsible for the transport of coal to the Stanwell Power Station. Our Australian Operations typically sell export Met coal F.O.B., with the customer paying for transportation from the outbound shipping port. Our Australian Operations generally contract for port and rail capacity via long-term take-or-pay contracts. Our U.S. Operations generally enter into quarterly or spot contracts for port and rail access; however, we do have a long-term take-or-pay agreement for terminal services at Kinder Morgan Pier IX Terminal in Hampton Roads, Virginia. See Item 1. “Business-Transportation” for more information regarding these agreements.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 66
Royalty costs. As conditions to certain of the Tenements, Curragh is subject to royalties payable to the Queensland government of 7.0% of revenues from coal sales to Stanwell (which could increase as described in Item 1. “Business-Regulatory Matters-Australia-Mineral Resources Act 1989 (Qld)”) and 8.22% - 10.42% of revenues from exported coal. These royalties are in addition to the Stanwell rebate, as described in Item 1. “Business-Customers-Australia Sales and Marketing-Stanwell.” Additionally, if MDL 162 advances from development to production, we would be required to pay under a private royalty deed a base royalty of A$0.50 per Mt of coal and a royalty of A$0.70 for every Mt of SHCC produced above 2.5 MMt per year. Royalty costs at our U.S. Operations are based upon contractual agreements for the coal leased from private owners and vary from property to property and by the type of mine (i.e., surface or underground). The royalty rates under leases at our U.S. Operations range between 3% - 9% of revenues from coal sales. Under some of the leases, we are required to pay minimum royalties, regardless of production, and/or “wheelage fees” (i.e., fees payable on coal mined and removed from properties other than the particular leasehold and hauled across the leasehold premises). Additionally, as part of the agreement we reached with CONSOL Energy to acquire Buchanan and certain other assets in 2016, we agreed to pay CONSOL Energy a royalty of 20% of the gross sales price on all coal mined from the Buchanan mine complex and sold or shipped to a location outside the United States and Canada, where the actual sales price that we receive exceeds certain agreed benchmarks. The royalty payments are triggered where the gross sales price per Mt of coal exceeds the following thresholds: from April 1, 2016 to March 30, 2017, $82.67; from March 31, 2017 to March 30, 2018, $86.81; from March 31, 2018 to March 30, 2019, $91.15; from March 31, 2019 to March 30, 2020, $95.70; and from March 31, 2020 to March 31, 2021, $100.49.
Black lung, severance and reclamation taxes. Our U.S. Operations are subject to a federal black lung excise tax on coal sold domestically. As of December 31, 2019, the federal black lung excise tax is $0.50 per Mt for underground mining and $0.25 per Mt for surface and highwall mining. Our U.S. Operations are also subject to a federal reclamation tax of $0.12 per Mt for underground mining and $0.28 per Mt for surface and highwall mining. Additionally, Buchanan is, and Amonate and Russell County would be, subject to a Virginia reclamation tax of $0.05 per Mt (which amount is contributed to a state-funded bond pool) and a Virginia severance tax of 2% for all coal sold. Logan and Greenbrier are subject to a West Virginia reclamation tax of $0.28 per Mt and a West Virginia severance tax of 1.0% - 5.0% of revenues for all coal produced. Amonate would also be subject to West Virginia reclamation and severance taxes to the extent that it produces any coal from those parts of the property that lie within West Virginia. Pangburn-Shaner-Fallowfield would not be subject to state reclamation or severance taxes, as neither are required under Pennsylvania law.
Exchange rates. Costs related to our Australian Operations are predominantly denominated in A$, while the coal that our Australian Operations export is sold in US$. As a result, A$-US$ exchange rates impact the U.S. dollar cost of our Australian Operations’ production.
Based on their mine-by-mine and product-by-product evaluations of the estimated prices for our coal, and the costs and expenses of mining and selling our coal, the QPs concluded our reserves were economically recoverable. With respect to the U.S. Operations, the U.S. QPs derived the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 by updating the reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018 prepared by the U.S. QPs to reflect appropriate reserve depletion and non-material deletion that occurred during 2019. We periodically update our coal reserve estimates to reflect production of coal from those reserves and new drilling or other data received. Accordingly, our coal reserve estimates will change from time to time to reflect the effects of our mining activities, analysis of new engineering and geological data, changes in coal reserve holdings, modification of mining methods and other factors.
During 2018, the SEC adopted amendments to modernize the property disclosure requirements for mining registrants and related guidance under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. The final rules provide a three-year transition period, and we will be required to comply with the new rules for the fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2021. We are in the process of assessing the impact the new rules will have on our disclosures.
Coronado Global Resources Inc. Form 10-K December 31, 2019 67
ITEM 3.