Item 2. PROPERTIES.
Existing Facilities
The electric properties of the Company form a single integrated system which is connected at 345 kilovolts and 115 kilovolts with the lines of Public Service Company of New Hampshire at the southerly end and at 115 kilovolts with Bangor Hydro-Electric Company at the northerly end of the Company's system. The Company's system is also connected with the system of The New Brunswick Power Corporation and with Bangor Hydro-Electric Company, in each case through the 345-kilovolt interconnection constructed by MEPCO, a 78 percent-owned subsidiary of the Company. At December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately 2,296 circuit-miles of overhead transmission lines, 18,770 pole-miles of overhead distribution lines and 1,212 miles of underground and submarine cable. The maximum one-hour firm system net peak load experienced by the Company during the winter of 1994-1995 was approximately 1,307 megawatts on January 11, 1995. At the time of the peak, the Company's net capability was 1,855 megawatts.
The Company operates 29 hydroelectric generating stations with an estimated net capability of 368 megawatts and purchases an additional 75 megawatts of hydroelectric generation in Maine. It is currently re-evaluating some of its older hydroelectric plants in conjunction with efforts to obtain new federal operating licenses, with the objective of increasing their output and extending their usefulness. The Company also operates one oil-fired steam-electric generating station, William F. Wyman Station in Yarmouth, Maine, after retiring its Mason Station in Wiscasset, Maine, in 1994. The Company's share of William F. Wyman Station has an estimated net capability of 589 megawatts. The oil-fired station is located on tidewater, permitting waterborne delivery of fuel. The Company also has three internal combustion generating facilities with an estimated aggregate net capability of 41 megawatts.
The Company has ownership interests in five nuclear generating plants in New England. The largest is a 38-percent interest in Maine Yankee, which generates power at its plant in Wiscasset, Maine. In addition, the Company owns a 9.5 percent interest in Yankee Atomic Electric Company ("Yankee Atomic"), which has
permanently shut down its plant located in Rowe, Massachusetts, a 6 percent interest in Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company ("Connecticut Yankee"), with an operating plant in Haddam, Connecticut, and a 4 percent interest in Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corporation ("Vermont Yankee"), which owns an operating plant in Vernon, Vermont (collectively, with Maine Yankee, the "Yankee Companies"). In addition, pursuant to a joint ownership agreement, the Company has a 2.5 percent direct ownership interest in the Millstone 3 nuclear unit ("Millstone 3") in Waterford, Connecticut.
In February 1992, the Board of Directors of Yankee Atomic, after concluding that it would be uneconomic to continue to operate, decided to permanently discontinue power operation at the Yankee Atomic plant and to decommission that facility. The Company had relied on Yankee Atomic for less than one percent of the Company's system capacity. Its 9.5-percent equity investment in Yankee Atomic is approximately $2.3 million. Currently, purchased-power costs billed to the Company, which include the estimated cost of the ultimate decommissioning of the unit, are collected by the Company from its customers through the Company's rates.
In March 1993 the FERC approved a settlement agreement regarding the decommissioning plan, recovery of plant investment, and all issues with respect to the prudence of the decision to discontinue operation. The Company has estimated its remaining share of the cost of Yankee Atomic's continued compliance with regulatory requirements, recovery of its plant investments, decommissioning and closing the plant, to be approximately $38.8 million. This estimate, which is subject to ongoing review and revision, has been recorded by the Company as a regulatory asset and a liability on the Company's balance sheet. As part of the MPUC's decision in the Company's 1993 base-rate case, the Company's current share of costs related to the deactivation of Yankee Atomic is being recovered through rates.
The Company's share of the capacity of the four operating nuclear generating plants amounted to the following:
Maine Yankee . . . . 330 MW Connecticut Yankee . . 35 MW Vermont Yankee . . . 19 MW Millstone 3 . . . . . 29 MW
The Company is obligated to pay its proportionate share of the operating expenses, including depreciation and a return on invested capital, of each of the Yankee Companies referred to above for periods expiring at various dates to 2012. Pursuant to the joint ownership agreement for Millstone 3, the Company is similarly obligated to pay its proportionate share of the operating costs of Millstone 3. The Company is also required to pay its share of the estimated decommissioning costs of each of the Yankee Companies and Millstone 3. The estimated decommissioning costs are paid as a cost of energy in the amounts allowed in rates by the FERC.
MEPCO owns and operates a 345-kilovolt transmission interconnection, completed in 1971, extending from the Company's substation at Wiscasset to the Canadian border where it connects with a line of The New Brunswick Power Corporation ("NB Power") under a 25-year interconnection agreement. MEPCO transmits power between NB Power and various New England utilities under separate
agreements. In 1990 MEPCO transferred to a newly formed partnership, of which a subsidiary of the Company is a 50-percent general partner, approximately $29 million of construction work in progress and an equal amount of deferred credits related to the construction of certain static var compensator facilities used for stabilization purposes in connection with the NEPOOL Hydro-Quebec purchase discussed in the succeeding paragraph.
NEPOOL, of which the Company is a member, contracted in connection with its Hydro-Quebec projects to purchase power from Hydro-Quebec. The contracts entitle the Company to 85.9 megawatts of capacity credit in the winter and 127.25 megawatts of capacity credit during the summer. The Company also entered into facilities-support agreements for its share of the related transmission facilities, with its share of the support responsibility and of associated benefits being approximately 7 percent of the totals. The Company is making facilities-support payments on approximately $31.6 million, its share of the construction cost for the transmission facilities incurred through December 31, 1994.
Maine Yankee Decommissioning. Effective in 1988 Maine Yankee began collecting $9.1 million annually for decommissioning, based on a FERC-approved funding level of $167 million. In 1994, Maine Yankee, pursuant to FERC authorization, increased its annual collection to $14.9 million and reduced its return on common equity to 10.65 percent, for a total increase in rates of approximately $3.4 million. The increase in decommissioning collection is based on the estimated cost of decommissioning the Maine Yankee Plant, assuming dismantlement and removal, of $317 million (in 1993 dollars) based on a 1993 external engineering study. The estimated cost of decommissioning nuclear plants is subject to change due to the evolving technology of decommissioning and the possibility of new legal requirements. Maine Yankee's accumulated decommissioning funds were $108.7 million as of December 31, 1994.
Maine Yankee Low-Level Waste Disposal. The federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act (the "Waste Act"), enacted in 1986, required operating disposal facilities to accept low-level nuclear waste from other states until December 31, 1992. The Waste Act also set limits on the volume of waste each disposal facility must accept from each state, established milestones for the nonsited states to establish facilities within their states or regions (pursuant to regional compacts) and authorized increasing surcharges on waste disposal until 1992. After 1992 the states in which there are operating disposal sites are permitted to refuse to accept waste generated outside their states or compact regions. In 1987 the Maine Legislature created the Maine Low-Level Radioactive Waste Authority (the "Maine Authority") to provide for such a facility if Maine is unable to secure continued access to out-of-state facilities after 1992, and the Maine Authority engaged in a search for a qualified disposal site in Maine. Maine Yankee volunteered its site at the Plant for that purpose, but progress toward establishing a definitive site in Maine, as in other states, was difficult because of the complex technical nature of the search process and the political sensitivities associated with it. As a result, Maine did not satisfy its milestone obligation under the Waste Act requiring submission of a site license application by the end of 1991, and is therefore subject to surcharges on its waste and
has not had access to regulated disposal facilities since the end of 1992. Thus, Maine Yankee now stores all waste generated at an on-site storage facility.
At the same time, the State of Maine was pursuing discussions with the State of Texas concerning participation in a compact with that state and Vermont. In May 1993, the Texas Legislature approved a compact with the states of Maine and Vermont. The Maine Legislature in June 1993 ratified the compact and submitted it to ratification by Maine voters in a referendum held in November 1993, in which the compact was ratified by a margin of approximately 73% to 27%. The ratification bill is before the United States Congress for consideration at its 1995 session.
The compact provides for Texas to take Maine's low-level waste over a 30-year period for disposal at a planned facility in west Texas. In return Maine would be required to pay $25 million, assessed to Maine Yankee by the State of Maine, payable in two equal installments, the first after ratification by Congress and the second upon commencement of operation of the Texas facility. In addition, Maine Yankee would be assessed a total of $2.5 million for the benefit of the Texas county in which the facility would be located and would also be responsible for its pro-rata share of the Texas governing commission's operating expenses. The Maine Authority suspended its search for a suitable disposal site in Maine and, as of June 30, 1994, ceased operations.
In the event the required ratification by Congress is not obtained, subject to continued NRC approval, Maine Yankee can continue to utilize its capacity to store approximately ten to twelve years' production of low-level waste in its facility at the Maine Yankee Plant site, which it started in January 1993. Subject to obtaining necessary regulatory approval, Maine Yankee could also build a second facility on the Plant site. Maine Yankee believes it is probable that it will have adequate storage capacity for such low-level waste available on-site, if needed, through the current licensed operating life of the Maine Yankee Plant.
The Company cannot predict whether the final required ratification of the Texas compact or other regulatory approvals required for on-site storage will be obtained, but Maine Yankee has stated that it intends to utilize its on-site storage facility in the interim and continue to cooperate with the State of Maine in pursuing all appropriate options.
Nuclear Insurance. The Price-Anderson Act is a federal statute providing, among other things, a limit on the maximum liability for damages resulting from a nuclear incident. Coverage for the liability is provided for by existing private insurance and retrospective assessments for costs in excess of those covered by insurance, up to $75.5 million for each reactor owned, with a maximum assessment of $10 million per reactor in any year. Based on the Company's stock ownership in four nuclear generating facilities and its 2.5 percent direct ownership interest in the Millstone 3 nuclear unit, the Company's retrospective premium could be as high as $6 million in any year, for a cumulative total of $45.3 million, exclusive of the effect of inflation indexing and a 5-percent surcharge in the event that total public liability claims from a nuclear incident should exceed the funds available to pay such claims.
In addition to the insurance required by the Price-Anderson Act, the nuclear generating facilities mentioned above carry additional nuclear property-damage insurance. This additional insurance is provided from commercial sources and from the nuclear electric utility industry's insurance company through a combination of current premiums and retrospective premium adjustments. Based on current premiums and the Company's indirect and direct ownership in nuclear generating facilities, this adjustment could range up to approximately $6.3 million annually.
For a discussion of issues relating to Maine Yankee's spent nuclear fuel disposal, see "Fuel Supply" - "Nuclear", below.
Construction Program
The Company's plans for improvements and expansion of generating, transmission and distribution facilities and power- supply sources are under continuing review. Actual construction expenditures depend on the availability of capital and other resources, load forecasts, customer growth, and general business conditions. Recent economic and regulatory considerations have led the Company to hold its planned 1995 capital investment outlays, including deferred demand-side management expenditures, to minimum levels. During the five-year period ended December 31, 1994, the Company's construction and acquisition expenditures amounted to $352.9 million (including investment in jointly-owned projects and excluding MEPCO), including an Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ("AFC") of $11.6 million. The program is currently estimated at approximately $56 million for 1995 and $253 million for 1996 through 1999, including AFC estimated for the period 1995 through 1999 at $3 million.
The following table sets forth the Company's estimated capital expenditures as discussed above:
1995 1996-99 1995-99 Type of Facilities (Dollars in Millions)
Generating Projects $ 9 $ 41 $ 50
Transmission 5 23 28
Distribution 23 106 129 Facilities and Other 19 83 102
Total $56 $253 $309
Demand-side Management
The Company's demand-side-management initiatives have included programs aimed at residential, commercial and industrial customers. Among the residential efforts have been programs that offer energy audits, low-cost insulation and weatherization packages, water heater wraps, energy-efficient light bulbs, and water heater cycling credits. Among the commercial and industrial efforts have been programs that offer rebates for efficient lighting systems and motors, energy-management loans,
grants to customers who make efficiency improvements, and shared savings arrangements with customers who undertake qualifying conservation and load management programs.
Actual demand-side management expenditures depend on such factors as availability of capital and other resources, load forecasts, customer growth, and general business conditions. Because of budget constraints, the Company is seeking to concentrate its efforts where the need and cost-effectiveness are the greatest, while continuing to honor contractual commitments.
NEPOOL
The Company is a member of NEPOOL, which is open to all investor-owned, municipal and cooperative electric utilities in New England under an agreement in effect since 1971 that provides for coordinated planning and operation of approximately 99 percent of the electric power production, purchases and transmission in New England. The NEPOOL Agreement imposes obligations concerning generating capacity reserve and the use of major transmission lines, and provides for central dispatch of the region's facilities.
Fuel Supply
The Company's total kilowatt-hour production by energy source for each of the last two years and as estimated for 1995 (assuming normal operation of Maine Yankee) is shown below: Actual Estimated Source 1993 1994 1995
Nuclear (principally from 28% 29% 28% Maine Yankee) Hydro 14 13 17 Oil 16 12 14 Non-utility 40 37 40 Other purchases 2 9 1 100% 100% 100%
The 1995 estimated kilowatt-hour output from oil and purchased power may vary depending upon the relative costs of Company-generated power and power purchased through NEPOOL and independent producers.
Oil. The Company's William F. Wyman Station in Yarmouth, Maine, and its internal combustion electric generating units are oil-fired. The Company's last contract for the supply of fuel oil requirements at market prices was allowed to expire in 1993. Since then the Company has been purchasing its fuel-oil requirements on the open market.
The average cost per barrel of fuel oil purchased by the Company during the five calendar years commencing with 1990 was $17.33, $12.87, $14.02, $13.12 and $12.93, respectively. A substantial portion of the fuel oil burned by the Company and the other member utilities of NEPOOL is imported. The availability and cost of oil to the Company, both under contract and in the open market, could be adversely affected by policies and events in oil-producing nations and other factors affecting world supplies and domestic governmental action.
Nuclear. As described above, the Company has interests in a number of nuclear generating units. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel for such units consists of (1) the mining and milling of uranium ore, (2) the conversion of the resulting concentrate to uranium hexafluoride, (3) the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride, (4) the fabrication of fuel assemblies, (5) the utilization of the nuclear fuel, and (6) the disposal of spent fuel.
Maine Yankee has entered into a contract with the United States Department of Energy ("DOE") for disposal of its spent nuclear fuel, as required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, pursuant to which a fee of one dollar per megawatt-hour is currently assessed against net generation of electricity and paid to the DOE quarterly. Under this Act, the DOE has assumed the responsibility for disposal of spent nuclear fuel produced in private nuclear reactors. In addition, Maine Yankee is obligated to make a payment with respect to generation prior to April 7, 1983 (the date current DOE assessments began). Maine Yankee has elected under terms of this contract to make a single payment of this obligation prior to the first delivery of spent fuel to DOE, scheduled to begin no earlier than 1998. The payment will consist of $50.4 million (all of which Maine Yankee has previously collected from its customers, but for which a reserve was not funded), which is the approximate one-time fee charge, plus interest accrued at the 13-week Treasury Bill rate compounded on a quarterly basis from April 7, 1983, through the date of the actual payment. Current costs incurred by Maine Yankee under this contract are recoverable under the terms of its Power Contracts with its sponsoring utilities, including the Company. Maine Yankee has accrued and billed $57.4 million of interest cost for the period April 7, 1983, through December 31, 1994.
Maine Yankee has formed a trust to provide for payment of its long-term spent fuel obligation, and is funding the trust with deposits at least semiannually which began in 1985, with currently projected semiannual deposits of approximately $1.3 million through December 1997. Deposits are expected to total approximately $70.4 million, with the total liability, including interest due at the time of disposal, estimated to be approximately $123.6 million at January 31, 1998. Maine Yankee estimates that trust fund deposits plus estimated earnings will meet this total liability if funding continues without material changes.
Under the terms of a license amendment approved by the NRC in 1984, the present storage capacity of the spent fuel pool at the Maine Yankee Plant will be reached in 1999 and after 1996 the available capacity of the pool will not accommodate a full-core removal. After consideration of available technologies, Maine Yankee elected to provide additional capacity by replacing the fuel racks in the spent fuel pool at the Maine Yankee Plant for more compact storage and, on January 25, 1993, filed with the NRC seeking authorization to implement the plan. On March 15, 1994, the NRC granted the authorization and installation of the new racks is scheduled for 1995. Maine Yankee believes that the replacement of the fuel racks will provide adequate storage capacity through the Maine Yankee Plant's licensed operating life. Maine Yankee has stated that it cannot predict with certainty whether or to what extent the storage capacity
limitation at the plant will affect the operation of the plant or the future cost of disposal.
Federal legislation enacted in December 1987 directed the DOE to proceed with the studies necessary to develop and operate a permanent high-level waste (spent fuel) disposal site at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. The legislation also provides for the possible development of a Monitored Retrievable Storage ("MRS") facility and abandons plans to identify and select a second permanent disposal site. An MRS facility would provide temporary storage for high-level waste prior to eventual permanent disposal. In late 1989 the DOE announced that the permanent disposal site is not expected to open before 2010, although originally scheduled to open in 1998. Additional delays due to political and technical problems are probable.
The Company has been advised by the companies operating nuclear generating stations in which the Company has an interest that each of those companies has contracted for certain segments of the nuclear fuel production and utilization cycle through various dates. Contracts for other segments of the fuel cycle will be required in the future, but their availability, prices and terms cannot now be predicted. Those companies have also advised the Company that they are assessing options generally similar to those described above with respect to Maine Yankee in connection with disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
Item 3.