Item 2. Properties.
SILVER AND GOLD MINING OPERATIONS
North America
Rochester Mine
The Rochester Mine is a silver and gold surface mine located in Pershing County, Nevada, which is located approximately 25 road miles northeast of Lovelock. The mine commenced operations in 1986. The Company owns 100% of the Rochester Mine by virtue of its 100% ownership of its subsidiary, Coeur Rochester, Inc. (“Coeur Rochester”). The property consists of 16 patented and 541 unpatented contiguous mining claims and 54 mill-site claims totaling approximately 11,000 acres.
Production at Rochester in 2003 was approximately 5.6 million ounces of silver and 52,363 ounces of gold, compared to 6.4 million ounces of silver and 71,905 ounces of gold in 2002. Cash costs per equivalent ounce of silver increased by 56% to $4.67 per ounce in 2003, compared to $2.99 per ounce in 2002.
During 2003, we began relocating and upgrading our existing crushing facility to access a portion of the reserves contained underneath the existing crusher and to expand our leach pad at a cost of approximately $10.5 million. As a result, during 2003, production was lower and per ounce operating costs were higher than historically experienced. We completed the crusher relocation project during the fourth quarter of 2003 and we expect that production levels and per ounce operating costs will return to historically experienced levels during 2004. Based upon the excellent operating performance demonstrated by the new crushing facility since startup in the fourth quarter of 2003, we are considering expanding the volume of material crushed to include certain low-grade, run-of-mine ores that were previously not crushed. We believe this will improve metallurgical recoveries, increase metal production and lower overall per ounce operating costs.
The mine utilizes the heap leaching process to extract both silver and gold from ore mined using conventional open pit methods. Approximately 47,969 tons of ore and waste per day were mined in 2003, compared to 33,785 tons per day in 2002. The average ore to waste strip ratio for the remaining life of the mine will vary based primarily on future gold and silver prices; however, it is anticipated to be less than 1:1.
Ore is crushed to approximately 3/8 inch and is then transported by conveyor to a loadout facility where it is transferred to 150 ton trucks which transport the crushed ore to leach pads where solution is applied via drip irrigation to dissolve the silver and gold contained in the ore. Certain low-grade ores are hauled directly, as run-of-mine, by 100 ton haul trucks to leach pads where solution is applied to dissolve the silver and gold contained in the ore. The solutions containing the dissolved silver and gold are pumped to a processing plant where zinc precipitation is used to recover the silver and gold from solution.
Based upon actual operating experience and certain metallurgical testing, the Company estimates ultimate recovery rates in 2004 of 61.5% for silver and 93% for gold on crushed ore. The leach cycle at the Rochester Mine requires approximately seven years from the point ore is placed on the leach pad until all recoverable metal is recovered. However, a significant proportion of metal recovery occurs in the early years.
At the Nevada Packard satellite deposit, all required permits were received to commence mining which began in the first quarter of 2003.
The Company’s capital expenditures at the Rochester Mine totaled approximately $12.3 million in 2003. During 2003, the Company relocated and upgraded its existing crushing facility in order to access a portion of the reserves contained underneath the existing crusher. The Company plans capital expenditures at the Rochester Mine of $3.5 million in 2004.
Asarco Incorporated (“Asarco”), the prior lessee, has a net smelter royalty interest which is payable only when the market price of silver equals or exceeds $19.44 per ounce up to maximum rate of 5%. No royalties were required to be paid by the Company during the three years ended December 31, 2003.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Rochester Mine
(includes Nevada Packard)
(1) Total cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
Coeur Silver Valley
The Company acquired 50% of Silver Valley from Asarco on September 9, 1999, thereby increasing the Company’s ownership interest to 100%. The benefits identified by Coeur when it consummated that acquisition included (i) an increase of 1.8 million ounces in the Company’s estimated annual silver production, (ii) the addition of 16.2 million ounces of silver to its proven and probable reserves and significant mineralized material, (iii) the potential to further increase reserves and mineralized material through systematic exploration, (iv) the potential to increase production at the Galena Mine and reduce cash costs, and (v) the consolidation of the Company’s ownership position and control of Idaho’s Silver Valley.
Silver Valley owns the Coeur and Galena Mines and the Caladay property situated in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District of Idaho. Silver Valley recommenced operations at the Coeur mine portion of its property in June 1996 and continued mining existing reserves there through July 2, 1998, when operations were terminated after known reserves at the Coeur mine were depleted. Silver Valley resumed production at the Galena Mine in May 1997 and operations continue. We believe that there are significant opportunities in the exploration of Silver Valley and the surrounding area, in addition to site expansion and consolidation. During the second half of 2003, we commenced a three year optimization plan designed to locate, develop and mine additional resources believed to exist on the property with an annual eventual production target of approximately 7.0 million ounces of silver. During this three year period, production is expected to decrease to approximately 3.6 million ounces annually, with an increase to the approximately 7.0 million ounce target expected in 2007.
Silver Valley plans to continue exploratory and developmental activities at the Coeur, Galena and Caladay Mines as well as at several contiguous properties in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District with a view toward the development of new silver reserves.
During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company performed an impairment review on the Silver Valley property and determined that its carrying amount was impaired at December 31, 2002 based on changes to its overall mine plan and a reduced long-term silver price estimate of $5.00 per ounce. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $19.0 million as of that date.
Galena Mine
The Galena Mine property is located immediately west of the City of Wallace in Shoshone County in northern Idaho. The property consists of 52 patented mining claims and 25 unpatented mining claims totaling approximately 1,100 acres.
Silver production at the Galena Mine in 2003 was 3.7 million ounces of silver, a decrease of 30% compared to 5.3 million ounces in 2002. Production was negatively impacted by the failure of the shaft hoist’s motor/generator set which placed the mine on care and maintenance from July 7, 2003 to August 12, 2003. Once repaired, the mine returned to operations under a reduced operating model for the remainder of the year pursuant to the implementation of the three year optimization plan.
The Galena Mine is an underground silver-copper mine and is served by two vertical shafts. The No. 3 shaft is the primary production shaft and is 5,800 feet deep. The Galena shaft primarily provides utility access for water, electrical power and sand backfill for underground operations.
The mine utilizes conventional and mechanized cut and fill mining methods with sand backfill to extract ore from the high grade silver-copper vein deposits that constitute the majority of the ore reserves. Silver and copper are recovered by a flotation mill that produces a silver rich concentrate which is sold to third-party smelters in Canada. Silver recovery through the mill averaged 96% in 2003 and 95% in 2002.
Waste material from the milling process is deposited in a tailings pond located approximately two miles from the minesite. The tailings containment pond, which is expanded on an as needed basis, has capacity for approximately nine additional years at current production rates.
Total cash costs for 2003 increased to $4.66 per ounce compared to $4.25 per ounce in 2002. Cash costs per ounce in 2003 were adversely affected by reduced production levels for reasons discussed above.
A comprehensive geological study of the immediate mine area has led to a much greater understanding of the geologic controls at Coeur Silver Valley. As a direct consequence, Coeur has been able to discover new high-grade silver veins and to more efficiently extend many of the most prolific vein systems to depth and, in some instances, back towards the upper levels of the Galena Mine. Of particular importance is the very productive 117 vein that has already been traced back up to the 3,100 level.
Total capital expenditures by Silver Valley at the Galena Mine in 2003 were $2.4 million.
Silver Valley has planned for capital expenditures of approximately $2.1 million for the Galena Mine during 2004.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Galena Mine (1)
(1) The Galena Mine reserve estimate is based on a minimum mining width of 4 to 4.5 feet diluted to 5.0 feet minimum width for most silver-copper and silver-lead veins. Cutoff grade is based on the cost of breaking and producing ore from a stope, but does not include development costs and administrative overhead.
(2) Mineralized material includes both the Galena and Coeur mines.
(3) Total cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
Coeur Mine
The Coeur Mine is an underground silver mine located adjacent to the Galena Mine in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in Idaho, and consists of approximately 868 acres comprised of 38 patented mining claims and four unpatented mining claims.
There was no mining activity at the Coeur Mine in 2003 and the property remained on care and maintenance. However, the Company believes that significant potential exists to discover additional high grade silver veins beneath the current limit of the underground workings. In addition, the Coeur mine is connected to the Galena mine, thus any future discoveries at either mine could be efficiently developed and processed at either facility. This connection is currently being utilized to improve ventilation and safety systems.
Caladay Property
The Caladay property adjoins the Galena Mine. Prior to its acquisition by the Company in 1991, approximately $32.5 million was expended on the property to construct surface facilities, a 5,101 ft. deep shaft and associated underground workings to explore the property. Based on Silver Valley’s analysis of existing Galena Mine underground workings and drilling results on the Galena Property, the Company believes that similar geologic conditions which exist at the Galena mine may extend into the Caladay property below the level of the current Caladay workings. In addition, the Caladay facilities are used to benefit the Galena Mine operations, by providing additional ventilation.
South America
Chile - Cerro Bayo Mine
The Cerro Bayo property covers about 103 square miles and is located south of Coyhaique, the capital of Region XI in southern Chile, and approximately 25 miles west of the town of Chile Chico. The project lies on the east side of the Andes mountain range at an elevation ranging from 600 to 4,500 feet and is serviced by a gravel road from Chile Chico. The Cerro Bayo property is known to include multiple epithermal veins containing gold and silver. The Company has been granted exploitation concessions (the Chilean equivalent to an unpatented claim except that the owner does not have title to the surface which must be separately acquired from the surface owner) covering the mineralized areas of the property as well as the necessary surface rights to permit mining.
Mining operations at the previously operated nearby Fachinal Mine, which consisted of both surface and underground mining, were discontinued in December 2000. The Company turned its focus on the development of the Cerro Bayo deposit discovered approximately nine miles from the Fachinal processing facilities. The Company changed the name of the property to the Cerro Bayo Mine in late 2001.
The ore processing mill at the Cerro Bayo Mine uses the standard flotation process to produce a high grade gold and silver concentrate. The concentrate processed at this mill is sold to third-party smelters, primarily in Japan. During 2003, we commenced metallurgical studies designed to confirm the feasibility of further treating the concentrate to produce a doré which would reduce transportation and refining costs to Japan. The mill has a design capacity of 1,650 tons per day. During 2003, the Company experienced recovery rates of 90% for gold and 92% for silver. Electrical power is generated on-site by diesel generators and process water is obtained from a combination of the adjacent General Carrera Lake and from tailings re-circulation.
During 2003, the Company continued its exploration and development program at the Cerro Bayo deposit, which is located approximately nine miles east of the processing facilities. This zone includes a number of veins with strike lengths, widths and grades greater than previously encountered in the district. The Cerro Bayo deposit is located within the Cerro Bayo trend and consists of multiple veins and veinlets found over a zone that is at least six miles long north to south and up to two and one half miles wide east to west.
Construction of two ramps to intersect the high-grade Lucero Vein in the Cerro Bayo deposit commenced in November 2001 and was completed in February 2002. Additional mineralized high-grade gold and silver vein systems were discovered, referred to as the Luz Eliana, Celia, Soledad East and Andrea, in addition to a mineralized loop of the main Lucero vein. Completion of the two access ramps provided new geological information which has facilitated new vein discoveries. Sampling programs on both the Lucero and Luz Eliana veins also have encountered grades and thickness in excess of reserve model expectations.
In addition, there are numerous low-grade deposits within our property package. We are currently evaluating the feasibility of constructing a heap leach facility which would allow for the utilization of open pit, bulk mining methods on the low-grade deposits. We expect the feasibility study to be completed in mid-2004. Based upon the results of the study, a construction decision could be entertained in the third quarter of 2004. We estimate it would take approximately six months to construct the heap leach facility, meaning that the first production from this portion of the mine could commence in early 2005.
Total capital expenditures at the Cerro Bayo property in 2003 were $2.7 million and the Company plans approximately $3.2 million of additional capital expenditures there in 2004. The Company has a working capital facility in the amount of $12 million with Standard Bank, U.S.A. LTD to meet short term liquidity needs.
Argentina -Martha Mine
In April 2002, the Company acquired 145,000 acres of prospective ground including the Martha high-grade underground silver mine located in Argentina, approximately 270 miles southeast of the Cerro Bayo Mine, for $2.5 million. In June, 2002, Coeur commenced shipping Martha’s high-grade ore to the Cerro Bayo Mine for processing.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves (1) - Cerro Bayo/Martha Mine
(1) Proven and probable ore reserves and mineralized material include the Martha mine.
(2) Processing at Cerro Bayo commenced in April 2002 and mining operations at Martha commenced in June 2002. There are no processing facilities at the Martha mine; therefore the ore is transported to Cerro Bayo. Due to the relationship, the Cerro Bayo and Martha production and financial statements are consolidated for reporting purposes.
(3) Total cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
Although the governments of Chile and Argentina have been relatively stable in recent years, the ownership of property in a foreign country is always subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization with inadequate compensation. Any foreign operation or investment may also be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation and laws or policies of particular countries as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation.
Chile - Petorca Mine
Prior to Coeur’s sale of the Petorca Mine on August 30, 2002, Coeur owned 100% of the mine which was located on approximately 34,000 acres in the western Andean foothills approximately 90 miles north of Santiago, Chile. Operations at Petorca were terminated in August 2001 and bids were solicited for the sale of Petorca. On August 30, 2002, the Company sold its interest in the Petorca mine and reported a gain of $1.4 million.
Gold production at Petorca in 2001 was 17,945 ounces of gold and 86,599 ounces of silver. Total cash costs per ounce of gold in 2001 were $341 per ounce.
There were no capital expenditures at Petorca in 2003 or 2002.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves (1) - Petorca Mine
Operating Data
(1) The Company closed the Petorca mine and placed it for sale in August 2001 and sold it on August 30, 2002.
(2) Total cash costs per ounce of gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
SILVER AND GOLD DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
Bolivia - The San Bartolome Project
Coeur acquired 100% of the equity in Empressa Miner Manquiri S.A. (“Manquiri”) from Asarco on September 9, 1999. Manquiri’s principal asset is the mining rights in the San Bartolome project, a silver property located near the city of Potosí, Bolivia, on the flanks of the Cerro Rico mountain. The San Bartolome project consists of several distinct silver-bearing gravel deposits, which are locally referred to as pallaco or sucu deposits. These deposits lend themselves to simple, free digging surface mining techniques and can be extracted without drilling and blasting. The deposits were formed as a result of erosion of the silicified silver-rich upper part of the Cerro Rico mountain.
The mineral rights for the San Bartolome project are held through long-term lease agreements with several independent mining cooperatives and the Bolivian State Mining Company (“COMIBOL”). Manquiri controls 67 square kilometers of concessions (16,600 acres). The joint venture lease agreements are subject to a 4% production royalty payable partially to the cooperatives and partially to COMIBOL. During 2003, the Company purchased an additional property known as the Phalpo property which is adjacent to the original property package for $1.3 million. The properties are currently subject to monthly payments totaling approximately $34,700.
Of the several pallacos deposits which are controlled by Coeur and surround Cerro Rico, three are of primary importance and are known as Huacajchi, Diablo (consisting of Diablo Norte, Diablo Sur and Diablo Este) and Santa Rita. During 2000, the Company under took an intensive field program and completed a pre-feasibility study. The field program included detailed exploration, bulk sampling, definition drilling, metallurgical studies and environmental baseline data collection. To assist with the pre-feasibility study, which was completed during 2000, Coeur retained third party engineering and geological consulting firms to examine and verify all data used in the study, including the estimate of mineralized material, process flow sheet design, site plan layout and detailed estimates of all operating and capital costs. The study incorporated a cyanide milling flow sheet with a wet pre-concentration screen circuit. In addition, the study identified a number of optimization opportunities that if successful, could significantly enhance the economic returns of the project.
We completed a preliminary feasibility study in 2000, which concluded that an open pit mine was potentially capable of producing approximately 6 million ounces of silver annually. During the third quarter of 2003, we retained Flour Daniel Wright and SRK to prepare an updated feasibility study which is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2004. Based upon the preliminary results of this more recent feasibility study, we estimate the capital cost of the project to be approximately $80 million, the annual production to be approximately 6 million ounces of silver over an initial mine life of approximately 14 years, and the cash costs per ounce of silver produced to be approximately $2.50. Recent feasibility work in the defining ore bodies has indicated the potential to expand mineral resources. As a consequence, the Company is reviewing an alternative to increase the planned plant throughput. Advanced metallurgical test work indicates changes in the processing circuit may result in increases in silver recovery. We are now assessing the impact of such information on revenue, operating costs and capital associated with such improvements. The measured and indicated resources are currently under study and we expect this to result in a marked increase in the proven and probable reserves. We expect to obtain all remaining permits in the second quarter of 2004.
Subject to the completion of the updated feasibility study which is expected in the second quarter of 2004 and the confirmation of the earlier findings, we expect to make a construction decision soon thereafter. We expect construction would take eighteen months, meaning that commercial production could commence in early 2006.
Coeur expended approximately $2.0 million, $2.6 million and $3.7 million at the San Bartolome project in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and plans approximately $1.1 million for the updated feasibility study, additional exploration, mining rights acquisitions and project development expenditures during the first quarter of 2004. Additional expenditures will be dependent upon the outcome of the updated feasibility study and the receipt of remaining permits.
The San Bartolome project involves risks that are inherent in any mining venture, as well as particular risks associated with the location of the project. The estimate of mineralized material indicated by the geologic studies performed to date are preliminary in nature and may differ materially after further metallurgical testing is completed. Also, managing mining projects in the altiplano area of Bolivia, where Cerro Rico is located, presents logistical challenges. The political and cultural differences of a foreign country may also present challenges.
We have also completed an independent ore reserves report for the San Bartolome project and have reclassified a significant portion of the previously reported mineralized material containing 40.3 million tons of ore with an average grade of 3.14 per ton to 35.3 million tons of ore with an average grade of 3.48 ounces of silver per ton resulting in approximately 122.8 million ounces of proven and probable reserves.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - San Bartolome Project
Year-end Mineralized Material -- San Bartolome Project
Alaska -Kensington Gold Project
On July 7, 1995, Coeur, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Coeur Alaska, Inc. (“Coeur Alaska”), acquired the 50% ownership interest of Echo Bay Exploration Inc. (“Echo Bay”) in the Kensington property from Echo Bay and Echo Bay Alaska, Inc. (collectively the “Sellers”), giving Coeur 100% ownership of the Kensington property. The Kensington project consists of approximately 6,000 acres, of which approximately 750 acres are patented claims. The property is located on the east side of Lynn Canal between Juneau and Haines, Alaska. Coeur Alaska is obligated to pay Echo Bay a scaled net smelter return royalty on 1.0 million ounces of future gold production after Coeur Alaska recoups the $32.5 million purchase price and its construction and development expenditures incurred after July 7, 1995 in connection with placing the property into commercial production. The royalty ranges from 1% at $400 gold prices to a maximum of 2 1/2% at gold prices above $475, with the royalty to be capped at 1.0 million ounces of production.
The Kensington ore deposit consists of multiple, precious metals bearing, mesothermal, quartz, carbonate, pyrite vein swarms and discrete quartz-pyrite veins hosted in the Cretaceous age Jualin diorite. The gold-telluride-mineral calaverite is associated with the pyrite mineralization.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Kensington Property
Year-end Mineralized Material
The reduction in the proven and probable reserves estimate in 2003, compared to 2002, is the result of the revised mine plan which focuses on higher-grade areas of the mine.
Not all Kensington ore zones have been fully delineated at depth and several peripheral zones and veins remain to be explored. In addition, the Company possesses the right to develop the Jualin property, an exploratory property located adjacent to the Kensington Property. The Jualin property consists of approximately 9,400 acres, of which approximately 345 acres are patented claims. The Company’s rights to develop the Jualin property are subject to an agreement which must be renewed in May 2008.
Total expenditures by the Company at the Kensington property in 2003 were $2.7 million. Such expenditures were used to continue the permitting and updated feasibility activities. The Company plans approximately $3.8 million in project expenditures during 2004, which are planned for ongoing technical support and site maintenance. Additional expenditures will be dependent upon the outcome of the updated feasibility and the receipt of remaining permits.
During the third quarter of 2003, we retained SNC Lavalin and Snowden Associates to complete an updated feasibility study based on an alternative operating scenario which would eliminate the need for a man camp, simplify operating logistics and focus mining on higher-grade areas of the deposit (thereby reducing significantly the size of the mill facilities). This plan has the potential to significantly reduce capital and operating costs while preserving the ability to expand production as market conditions warrant. Based upon the preliminary results of the feasibility study, we estimate the capital costs of the project to be approximately $75 million, the annual production to be 100,000 ounces of gold over an initial mine life of ten years and the cash cost per ounce of gold produced to be approximately $195. During the first quarter of 2004, a major permitting milestone was reached with the issuance of the draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement. We expect to obtain all required construction permits in the second quarter of 2004. Subject to the completion of the updated feasibility study in the second quarter of 2004 and the confirmation of the earlier findings, we could make a construction decision thereafter. We expect construction to take eighteen months, meaning that commercial production could commence in early 2006.
Coeur continues to complete the permitting process. No assurance can be given as to whether or when the required regulatory approvals will be obtained or as to whether the Company will place the Kensington project into commercial production.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITY
Coeur, either directly or through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns, leases and has interests in certain exploration-stage mining properties located in the United States, Chile, Argentina, Tanzania and Bolivia. Exploration expenses of approximately $4.9 million, $3.8 million and $6.4 million were incurred by the Company in connection with exploration activities in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
In keeping with the Company’s overall efforts to focus its financial resources, Coeur conducted 100% of the 2003 exploration program on or near existing properties where infrastructure and production facilities are already in place.
Puchuldiza, Chile Joint Venture Property
On November 28, 2001, the Company signed an exploration agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation relating to Coeur’s Puchuldiza gold property located approximately 155 miles northeast of the port city of Iquique in northern Chile. Under the terms of the agreement, Barrick can earn a 75% interest in the property for exploration expenditures of $2.3 million over the next five years. For an additional $5.8 million in exploration spending, Barrick can increase its property interest to 85%. Coeur, however, can recover its full 25% interest by making a cash payment to Barrick equivalent to 25% of Barrick’s additional expenditure of $5.8 million, plus a 50% penalty.
Puchuldiza is a large, epithermal, hot spring deposit in a setting very similar to other high-grade gold deposits in the USA, New Zealand and Japan. Gold mineralization can be found throughout the property in systems of veins, veinlets and stockworks developed in explosion breccias and silicified zones. Coeur believes that there is considerable potential to expand the current near-surface mineralization. Preliminary work suggests that the possible existence of a large, high-grade feeder system at depth underlying the near-surface mineralization.
During 2003, Barrick spent approximately $1.02 million on geologic mapping, geochemical and geophysical surveys and drilling on the Puchuldiza property. A total of 2,250 meters (7,382 feet) of drilling in 7 core holes was completed in 2003. Results of their work have been encouraging enough for Barrick to plan follow-up work for 2004.
Cerro Bayo Mine, Chile
Coeur continued to have exploration success at its 100%-owned Cerro Bayo gold/silver mining operation in southern Chile. Over $2.0 million was spent in exploration during 2003. A total of 131,695 feet of drilling was completed in 357 core holes primarily during the second half of the year. The goal was to discover new reserves and mineralized material immediately north and south of the Cerro Bayo mine.
New reserves and mineralized material were successfully discovered in several veins. The average discovery cost was less than $0.10 per silver equivalent ounce. At December 31, 2003, Cerro Bayo reserves were 0.6 million tons at a grade of 8.34 silver ounces per ton for a total 5.4 million ounces of silver and a grade of 0.15 gold ounces per ton for a total of 94,000 gold ounces. Mineralized material at Cerro Bayo totaled 3.5 million tons at an average grade of 4.83 for silver and 0.10 for gold.
During 2003, Coeur discovered several new veins names Wendy Norte, Lucero Norte, Javiera Sur, Veronica and Marcela, some of which are in development. In addition, near-surface mineralization was defined at the Cerro Bayo and Laguna Verde areas.
Due to these positive results, the Company has increased its holding of prospective ground by 10% to 103 square miles.
The exploration potential to discover additional high grade veins within the entire Cerro Bayo trend, which is 2.5 miles east-west by 6 miles north-south, is considered to be excellent. The exploration budget for 2004 was increased to $3.4 million.
Martha Mine, Argentina
Coeur had encouraging exploration results at its 100%-owned high-grade silver Martha Mine area located in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. The underground mine is approximately 270 miles southeast of Coeur’s Cerro Bayo property located in Southern Chile. Coeur acquired the Martha Mine in April 2002 and began transporting high-grade ore from the Martha mine to its Cerro Bayo mill in June 2002. In addition 145,000 acres of exploration stage properties in Santa Cruz Province were also acquired.
Coeur continued exploration efforts during 2003 and focused primarily on the Martha vein located within the 100 acre Martha mine property. The Martha vein, which is exposed for over one mile, is one of six presently known veins that have had very limited exploration prior to Coeur’s acquisition of the property. Coeur’s efforts consisted of mapping, sampling and drilling for a total expenditure of $0.54 million.
Exploration was successful in discovering extensions of high grade ore along the strike of the Martha vein within the mine itself as well as locating several new high-grade ore shoots at the “R 4 Zone”.
The R 4 Zone, and the new Del Medio and Del Medio Norte veins, are expected to extend the Martha mine life through the end of 2004. At December 31, 2003, reserves at the Martha mine total 16,000 tons averaging 0.09 ounces per ton gold and 83.7 ounces per ton silver for a total of 1,400 ounces of gold and 1.4 million ounces of silver. Mineralized material totaled 24,000 tons at an average grade of 78.4 ounces of silver per ton and 0.08 ounces of gold per ton. Reserves at Martha decreased in 2003 while mineralized material increased. An ongoing drill program during 2004 is planned to expand the high-grade mineralization at Martha to the southeast.
Coeur has also initiated ground reconnaissance on its large land package in Santa Cruz Province surrounding the Martha mine as well as 90 miles to the north surrounding its Lejano property, which also contains a significant silver resource. Numerous new epithermal veins were discovered that contain high grade gold and silver mineralization on the surface. The Company plans to map, sample and drill as many of these veins during 2004.
Because of the highly prospective nature of Coeur’s land holdings and the excellent results to date, Coeur increased its land position by nearly 50% to 334 square miles. In addition, the Company has increased its 2003 exploration budget for Argentina to $1.8 million.
Tanzania, Africa
During the first quarter of 2004, the Company acquired ten prospecting licenses for properties located in Tanzania, Africa. The prospecting licenses are valid for a period of three years and contain renewal options. During 2004, the Company plans to spend approximately $325,000 for an initial exploration program.
SILVER AND GOLD PRICES
The Company’s operating results are substantially dependent upon the world market prices of silver and gold. The Company has no control over silver and gold prices, which can fluctuate widely. The volatility of such prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth the high and low prices of silver (as reported by Handy and Harman) and gold (London Final) per ounce during the periods indicated:
MARKETING
Coeur has historically sold the gold from its mines both pursuant to forward contracts and at spot prices prevailing at the time of sale, while silver is sold at spot prices prevailing at the time of sale. Entering into forward sale contracts is a strategy which can be used to enhance revenues and/or mitigate some of the risks associated with fluctuating precious metals prices. The Company continually evaluates the potential benefits of engaging in these strategies based on the then current market conditions. Coeur had no future silver production hedged at December 31, 2003 and has no plans to hedge its silver in the future. In order to ensure that planned revenues from the sale of gold are realized and to reduce the impact of any declines in gold prices, the Company has from time-to-time established the prices to be received in the future for a portion of its gold production by entering into a forward sales agreements. At December 31, 2003, approximately 13% of the Company’s estimated annual production of gold over the next year was committed under the Company’s gold hedging program. For further details of the Company’s gold sales program please refer to Note O - Derivative Financial Instruments and Fair Value Financial Instruments of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Accompanying Notes.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
General
The Company’s commitment to environmental responsibility has been recognized in 19 awards received since 1987, which included the Dupont/Conoco Environmental Leadership Award, awarded to the Company on October 1, 1991 by a judging panel that included representatives from environmental organizations and the federal government, the “Star” award granted on June 23, 1993 by the National Environmental Development Association, and the Environmental Waikato Regional Council award for Golden Cross environmental initiative granted on May 15, 1995 and in March 2004 the Habitat Restoration Award from the Nevada Division of Wildlife for developing habitat at the Rochester mine. In 1994, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and in 1997, the Company’s Vice President of Environmental and Governmental Affairs, were awarded the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers’ Environmental Conservation Distinguished Service Award.
The Company’s activities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws governing the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Although such regulations have never required the Company to close any mine and the Company is not presently subject to any material regulatory proceedings related to such matters, the costs associated with compliance with such regulatory requirements are substantial and possible future legislation and regulations could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the development of the Company’s properties, the extent of which cannot be predicted. In the context of environmental permitting, including the approval of reclamation plans, the Company must comply with known standards and regulations which may entail significant costs and delays. Although Coeur has been recognized for its commitment to environmental responsibility and believes it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, amendments to current laws and regulations, the more stringent implementation thereof through judicial review or administrative action or the adoption of new laws could have a materially adverse effect upon the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company expended $4.5 million, $5.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively, in connection with routine environmental compliance activities at its operating properties and expects to expend approximately $3.5 million for that purpose in 2004. Future environmental expenditures will be determined by governmental regulations and the overall scope of the Company’s operating and development activities.
Federal Environmental Laws
Mining wastes are currently exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) regulations governing hazardous waste, although such wastes may be subject to regulation under state law as a solid or hazardous waste. The EPA plans to develop a program to regulate mining waste pursuant to its solid waste management authority under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). Certain processing and other wastes are currently regulated as hazardous wastes by the EPA under RCRA. The EPA is studying how mine wastes from extraction and benefication should be managed and regulated. If the Company’s mine wastes were treated as hazardous waste or such wastes resulted in operations being designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) for cleanup, material expenditures would be required for the construction of additional waste disposal facilities or for other remediation expenditures. Under CERCLA, any present owner or operator of a Superfund site or an owner or operator at the time of its contamination generally may be held liable and may be forced to undertake remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Additional regulations or requirements may also be imposed upon the Company’s tailings and waste disposal in Idaho and Alaska under the Federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and state law counterparts, and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Air emissions are subject to controls under Nevada’s, Idaho’s and Alaska’s air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act.
Lawsuit to Recover Inventory
During the first quarter of 2000, Handy & Harman Refining Group, Inc. (“Handy & Harman”), to which the Rochester Mine had historically sent approximately 50% of its dorè, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The Company had inventory at the refinery of approximately 67,000 ounces of silver and 5,000 ounces of gold that has been delivered to certain creditors of Handy & Harman. On February 27, 2001 the Company commenced a lawsuit against Handy & Harman and certain others in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Connecticut seeking recovery of the metals and/or damages. Handy & Harman’s Chapter 11 liquidation plan was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in August 2001 and on November 3, 2001, the Company received approximately $294,000 from Handy & Harman as a partial payment under the plan. The liquidating custodian of Handy & Harman under the liquidation plan filed suit against the Company in March 2002 for the value of 100,000 ounces of silver (i.e., approximately $500,000) as a preference based on the Company’s draw-down of its silver held by Handy & Harman in mid-March 2000. Based on this legal action, the Company determined that the recovery of any additional amounts would be remote. As a result, the Company recorded a $1.4 million write-down of the remaining carrying amount in the fourth quarter of 2001. In August 2003 the Company agreed to a settlement of the liquidating custodian’s claim against the Company.
Proposed Mining Legislation
Legislation has been presently introduced in the U.S. Congress to change the Mining Act under which the Company holds mining claims on public lands. It is possible that the Mining Act will be amended or be replaced by more onerous legislation in the future. The introduced legislation contains new environmental standards and conditions, additional reclamation requirements and extensive new procedural steps which would be likely to result in delays in permitting. The Forest Service is considering revising its regulations governing operations under the Mining Act on public lands it administers, which may result in additional procedures and environmental conditions and standards on those lands.
During the last several Congressional sessions, bills have been introduced which would supplant or materially alter the Mining Act. If enacted, such legislation may materially impair the ability of the Company to develop or continue operations which derive ore from federal lands. No such bills have been passed and the extent of the changes, if any, which may be enacted by Congress is not presently known. A significant portion of Coeur’s U.S. mining properties are on public lands. Any reform of the Mining Act or Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service regulations thereunder based on these initiatives could increase the costs of mining activities on unpatented mining claims, and as a result could have an adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. Until such time, if any, as new reform legislation or regulations are enacted, the ultimate effects and costs of compliance on the Company cannot be estimated.
Foreign Government Regulations
The mining properties of the Company that are located in Chile and Argentina are subject to various government laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the air, surface water, ground water and the environment in general, as well as the health of the work force, labor standards and the socioeconomic impacts of mining facilities upon the communities. A recently established State Council for the Environment (CODEMA) has responsibility to define policy, approve plans and programs, control regulatory activities and enforce compliance. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations to which it is subject in Chile and Argentina.
The Republic of Bolivia, where the San Bartolome project is located, has adopted laws and guidelines for environmental permitting that are similar to those in effect in the United States and other South American countries. The permitting process requires a thorough study to determine the baseline condition of the mining site and surrounding area, an environmental impact analysis, and proposed mitigation measures to minimize and offset the environmental impact of mining operations.
Maintenance of Claims
At mining properties in the United States, including the Rochester, Kensington, Coeur, Galena and Caladay mines, operations are conducted in part upon unpatented mining claims, as well as patented mining claims. Pursuant to applicable federal law it is necessary, in order to maintain the unpatented claims, to pay to the Secretary of the Interior, on or before August 31 of each year, a claim maintenance fee of $100 per claim. This claim maintenance fee is in lieu of the assessment work requirement contained in the Mining Law of 1872. In addition, in Nevada, holders of unpatented mining claims are required to pay the county recorder of the county in which the claim is situated an annual fee of $3.50 per claim. No maintenance fees are payable for patented claims. Patented claims are similar to land held by an owner who is entitled to the entire interest in the property with unconditional power of disposition. The Bush administration’s budget for fiscal year 2005 proposes raising the maintenance fee for unpatented claims from $100 per claim to $126 per claim per year.
In Chile, operations are conducted upon mineral concessions granted by the national government. For exploitation concessions (somewhat similar to a U.S. patented claim), to maintain the concession, an annual tax is payable to the government before March 31 of each year in the approximate amount of $1.14 per hectare. For exploration concessions, to maintain the right, the annual tax is approximately $.30 per hectare. An exploration concession is valid for a five-year period. It may be renewed for new periods unless a third party claims the right to explore upon the property, in which event the exploration concession must be converted to an exploitation concession in order to maintain the rights to the concession.
Minerals are owned by the Argentine government, which allows individual provinces to impose a maximum 3% mine-mouth royalty on mineral production. The first step in acquiring mining rights is filing a cateo, which gives exclusive prospecting rights for the requested area for a period of time, generally up to 3 years. Maximum size of each cateo is 10,000 hectares; a maximum of 20 cateos can be held by a single entity (individual or company) in any one province.
The holder of a cateo has exclusive right to establish a Manifestation of Discovery (MD) on that cateo, but MD’s can also be set without a cateo on any land not covered by someone else’s cateo. MD’s are filed as either a vein or disseminated discovery. A square protection zone can be declared around the discovery - up to 840 hectares for vein MD or up to 7,000 hectares for a disseminated MD. The protection zone grants the discoverer exclusive rights for an indefinite period, during which the discoverer must provide an annual report presenting a program of exploration work and investments related to the protection zone. An MD can later be upgraded to a Mina (mining claim), which give the holder the right to begin commercial extraction of minerals.
EMPLOYEES
The number of full-time employees at December 31, 2003 of Coeur d’Alene Mines Corporation and its subsidiaries was:
(1) The Company maintains a labor agreement with the United Steelworkers of America at its Coeur Silver Valley mine. The agreement is effective from March 26, 2003 to March 1, 2006. The Company also maintains a labor agreement with Sindicato De Trabayadores De Compania Minera Cerro Bayo LTA at its Cerro Bayo Chile mine. The agreement is effective from December 22, 2003 to December 21, 2005.
RISK FACTORS
The following information sets forth information relating to important risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. References to “we,” “our” and “us” in these risk factors refer to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
Risks Relating to our Business
We have incurred losses in the last five years due to several factors, including historically low gold and silver market prices, and may continue to incur losses in the future.
We have incurred net losses in the last five years, and have had losses from continuing operations in each of those periods. Factors significantly contributing to our losses are:
• until recently, historically low gold and silver market prices;
• our deliberate pursuit of a growth policy calling for the acquisition of mining properties and companies and financing such growth principally by incurring convertible indebtedness, thereby increasing our interest expense;
• write-offs for impaired assets in 1999 ($16.2 million), 2000 ($12.2 million), 2001 ($6.1 million), 2002 ($19.0 million) and 2003 ($0.0 million); and
• losses on the early retirement of debt of $19.1 million in 2002, and $41.6 million in 2003.
If silver and gold prices decline and we are unable to reduce our production costs, our losses may continue. If lower silver and gold prices make mining at our properties uneconomical, we may be required to recognize additional impairment write-downs, which would increase our operating losses and negatively impact our results of operations.
We may be required to incur additional indebtedness to fund our capital expenditures.
We have historically financed our operations through the issuance of convertible debt and may be required to incur additional indebtedness in the future. In particular, we anticipate that we could reach a final decision to develop the San Bartolome and Kensington projects in 2004, which would require a capital investment of approximately $155 million. While we believe that our cash on hand will be sufficient for us to make this level of capital investment, no assurance can be given that additional capital investment will not be required to be made at these or other projects. If we are unable to generate enough cash to finance such additional capital expenditures through operating cash flow and the issuance of common stock, we may be required to issue additional indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness would increase our debt payment obligations, and may negatively affect our results of operations.
We have not had sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in recent years and presently expect that situation to continue.
As a result of our net losses, our earnings have not been adequate to satisfy fixed charges (i.e., interest, preferred stock dividends and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest) in each of the last five years. The amounts by which earnings were inadequate to cover fixed charges were approximately $29.3 million in 1999, $47.5 million in 2000, $3.1 million in 2001, $81.2 million in 2002 and $67.0 million in 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2003, we are required to make fixed payments on $9.6 million principal amount of our 7 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2005, requiring annual interest payments of approximately $0.7 million until their maturity on October 31, 2005.
We expect to satisfy our fixed charges and other expense obligations in the future from cash flow from operations and, if cash flow from operations is insufficient, from working capital, which amounted to approximately $99.1 million at December 31, 2003. In the last five years, we have been experiencing negative cash flow from operating activities. The amount of net cash used in our operating activities amounted to approximately $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, $8.5 million in 2002 and $29.9 million in 2001. The availability of future cash flow from operations or working capital to fund the payment of interest on the notes, our debentures and other fixed charges will be dependent upon numerous factors, including our results of operations, silver and gold prices, levels and costs of production at our mining properties, the amount of our capital expenditures and expenditures for acquisitions, developmental and exploratory activities, and the extent to which we are able to reduce the amount of our indebtedness through additional exchanges.
The market prices of silver and gold are volatile and until recently have been near historically low levels. Low silver and gold prices may result in decreased revenues and increased losses, and may negatively affect our business.
Silver and gold are commodities. Their prices fluctuate, and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we derived approximately 65% of our revenues from sales of silver. As such, our earnings are directly related to the price of this metal.
The market prices of silver (Handy & Harman) and gold (London Final) on March 4, 2004 were $6.83 and $392 per ounce, respectively. The price of silver and gold may decline in the future. Factors that are generally understood to contribute to a decline in the price of silver include sales by private and government holders, and a general global economic slowdown.
If the prices of silver and gold are depressed for a sustained period, our net losses will continue, we may be forced to suspend mining at one or more of our properties until the price increases, and record additional asset impairment write-downs. Any lost revenues, continued or increased net losses or additional asset impairment write-downs would affect our results of operations.
We have recorded significant write-downs of mining properties in recent years and may have to record additional write-downs, which could negatively impact our results of operations.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 (SFAS 144), “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” established accounting standards for impairment of the value of long-lived assets such as mining properties. SFAS 144 requires a company to review the recoverability of the cost of its assets by estimating the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment must be recognized when the carrying value of the asset exceeds these cash flows, and recognizing impairment write-downs has negatively impacted our results of operations in recent years.
While we do not believe that any of our other properties presently requires a write-down pursuant to SFAS 144, if silver or gold prices decline or we fail to control production costs or realize the mineable ore reserves at our mining properties, we may recognize further asset write-downs. We also may record other types of additional mining property write-downs in the future to the extent a property is sold by us for a price less than the carrying value of the property, or if liability reserves have to be created in connection with the closure and reclamation of a property. Additional write-downs of mining properties could negatively impact our results of operations.
The estimation of ore reserves is imprecise and depends upon subjective factors. Estimated ore reserves may not be realized in actual production. Our operating results may be negatively affected by inaccurate estimates.
The ore reserve figures presented in our public filings are estimates made by our technical personnel. Reserve estimates are a function of geological and engineering analyses that require us to make assumptions about production costs and silver and gold market prices. Reserve estimation is an imprecise and subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation, judgment and experience. Assumptions about silver and gold market prices are subject to great uncertainty as those prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market prices of silver or gold may render reserves containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and we may be required to reduce reserve estimates, discontinue development or mining at one or more of our properties, or write down assets as impaired. Should we encounter mineralization or geologic formations at any of our mines or projects different from those we predicted, we may adjust our reserve estimates and alter our mining plans. Either of these alternatives may have a negative effect on our actual production and operating results.
We based our ore reserve determinations as of December 31, 2003 on a long-term silver price average of $5.25 per ounce and a long-term gold price average of $375 per ounce.
The estimation of the ultimate recovery of metals contained within the heap leach pad inventory is inherently inaccurate and subjective and requires the use of estimation techniques. Actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations.
The Rochester mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract silver and gold from ore. The heap leach process is a process of extracting silver and gold by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained silver and gold, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes.
The key stages in the conversion of ore into silver and gold are (i) the blasting process in which the ore is broken into large pieces; (ii) the processing of the ore through a crushing facility that breaks it into smaller pieces; (iii) the transportation of the crushed ore to the leach pad where the leaching solution is applied; (iv) the collection of the leach solution; (v) subjecting the leach solution to the precipitation process, in which gold and silver is converted back to a fine solid; (vi) the conversion of the precipitate into doré; and (vii) the conversion by a third party refinery of the doré into refined silver and gold bullion.
We use several integrated steps to scientifically measure the metal content of ore placed on the leach pads during the key stages. As the ore body is drilled in preparation for the blasting process, samples of the drill residue are assayed to determine estimated quantities of contained metal. We estimate the quantity of ore by utilizing global positioning satellite survey techniques. We then process the ore through a crushing facility where the output is again weighed and sampled for assaying. A metallurgical reconciliation with the data collected from the mining operation is completed with appropriate adjustments made to previous estimates. We then transport the crushed ore to the leach pad for application of the leaching solution. As the leach solution is collected from the leach pads, we continuously sample for assaying. We measure the quantity of leach solution with flow meters throughout the leaching and precipitation process. After precipitation, the product is converted to doré, which is the final product produced by the mine. We again weigh, sample and assay the doré. Finally, a third party smelter converts the doré into refined silver and gold bullion. At this point we are able to determine final ounces of silver and gold available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate.
Our reported inventories include metals estimated to be contained in the ore on the leach pads of $32.1 million as of December 31, 2003. Of this amount, $17.4 million is reported as a current asset and $14.7 million is reported as a noncurrent asset. The distinction between current and noncurrent is based upon the expected length of time necessary for the leaching process to remove the metals from the broken ore. The historical cost of the metal that is expected to be extracted within twelve months is classified as current and the historical cost of metals contained within the broken ore that will be extracted beyond twelve months is classified as noncurrent.
The estimate of both the ultimate recovery expected over time, and the quantity of metal that may be extracted relative to such twelve month period, requires the use of estimates which are inherently inaccurate since they rely upon laboratory test work. Test work consists of 60 day leach columns from which we project metal recoveries up to five years in the future. The quantities of metal contained in the ore are based upon actual weights and assay analysis. The rate at which the leach process extracts gold and silver from the crushed ore is based upon laboratory column tests and actual experience occurring over approximately fifteen years of leach pad operation at the Rochester mine. The assumptions we use to measure metal content during each stage of the inventory conversion process includes estimated recovery rates based on laboratory testing and assaying. We periodically review our estimates compared to actual experience and revise our estimates when appropriate. The length of time necessary to achieve our currently estimated ultimate recoveries of 61.5% for silver and 93% for gold is estimated to be between five and 10 years. However, the ultimate recovery will not be known until leaching operations cease, which is currently estimated for 2011.
When we began leach operations in 1986, based solely on laboratory testing, we estimated the ultimate recovery of silver and gold at 50% and 80%, respectively. Since 1986, we have adjusted the expected ultimate recovery three times (once in each of 1989, 1997 and 2003) based upon actual experience gained from leach operations. In 2003, we revised our estimated recoveries for silver and gold to 61.5% and 93%, respectively, which increased the estimated recoverable ounces of silver and gold contained in the heap by 1.8 million ounces and 41,000 ounces, respectively.
If our estimate of ultimate recovery requires adjustment, the impact upon our inventory valuation and upon our income statement would be as follows:
Inventories of ore on leach pads are valued based upon actual costs incurred to place such ore on the leach pad, less costs allocated to minerals recovered through the leach process. The costs consist of those production activities occurring at the mine site and include the costs, including depreciation, associated with mining, crushing and precipitation circuits. In addition, refining is provided by a third party refiner to place the metal extracted from the leach pad in a saleable form. These additional costs are considered in the valuation of inventory. Negative changes in our inventory valuations and correspondingly on our income statement would have an adverse impact on our results of operations.
Our estimates of current and non-current inventories may not be realized in actual production and operating results, which may negatively affect our business.
We use estimates, based on prior production results and experiences, to determine whether heap leach inventory will be recovered more than one year in the future, and is non-current inventory, or will be recovered within one year, and is current inventory. The estimates involve assumptions that may not prove to be consistent with our actual production and operating results. We cannot determine the amount ultimately recoverable until leaching is completed. If our estimates prove inaccurate, our operating results may be less than anticipated.
Significant investment risks and operational costs are associated with our exploration, development and mining activities, such as San Bartolome and Kensington. These risks and costs may result in lower economic returns and may adversely affect our business.
Our ability to sustain or increase our present production levels depends in part on successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, involves many risks and is frequently unproductive. If mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), metallurgical recoveries, production rates and capital and operating costs of such development projects, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance of necessary permits and receipt of adequate financing.
Development projects, such as San Bartolome and Kensington, have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future operating costs and capital requirements. Particularly for development projects, estimates of reserves, metal recoveries and cash operating costs are to a large extent based upon the interpretation of geologic data obtained from a limited number of drill holes and other sampling techniques and feasibility studies. Estimates of cash operating costs are then derived based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the ore body, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore, comparable facility and equipment costs, anticipated climate conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns of any and all development projects, including San Bartolome and Kensington, may materially differ from the costs and returns estimated, and accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely affected.
Our silver and gold production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business.
Our future silver and gold production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. It is our business strategy to conduct silver and gold exploratory activities at our existing mining and exploratory properties as well as at new exploratory projects, and to acquire silver and gold mining properties and businesses that possess mineable ore reserves and are expected to become operational in the near future. We can provide no assurance that our silver and gold production in the future will not decline. Accordingly, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations.
There are significant hazards associated with our mining activities, not all of which are fully covered by insurance. To the extent we must pay the costs associated with such risks, our business may be negatively affected.
The mining business is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although we maintain insurance in an amount that we consider to be adequate, liabilities might exceed policy limits, in which event we could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. Insurance fully covering many environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us or to other companies in the industry. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our mining activities as described above could negatively affect our results of operations.
We are subject to significant governmental regulations, and their related costs and delays may negatively affect our business.
Our mining activities are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing environmental protection, natural resources, prospecting, development, production, post-closure reclamation, taxes, labor standards and occupational health and safety laws and regulations including mine safety, toxic substances and other matters related to our business. Although these laws and regulations have never required us to close any mine, the costs associated with compliance with such laws and regulations are substantial. Possible future laws and regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of our operations and delays in the development of our properties. Moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. Substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in our operations. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Some of our mining wastes are currently exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations governing hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). If the EPA designates these wastes as hazardous under RCRA, we would be required to expend additional amounts on the handling of such wastes and to make significant expenditures to construct hazardous waste disposal facilities. In addition, if any of these wastes causes contamination in or damage to the environment at a mining facility, such facility may be designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). Under CERCLA, any owner or operator of a Superfund site since the time of its contamination may be held liable and may be forced to undertake extensive remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Additional regulations or requirements are also imposed upon our tailings and waste disposal areas in Idaho and Alaska under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Airborne emissions are subject to controls under air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act in Nevada, Idaho and Alaska. Compliance with CERCLA, the CWA and state environmental laws could entail significant costs, which could negatively affect our operations.
In the context of environmental permits, including the approval of reclamation plans, we must comply with standards and regulations which entail significant costs and can entail significant delays. Such costs and delays could have a dramatic impact on our operations.
We are required to obtain government permits to expand operations or begin new operations. The costs and delays associated with such approvals could affect our operations, reduce our revenues, and negatively affect business as a whole.
Mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent on many factors that are out of our control. The governmental approval process may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted, and could cause us to not proceed with the development of a mine. Accordingly, this approval process could harm our results of operations.
We are an international company and are exposed to risks in the countries in which we have significant operations or interests. Foreign instability or variances in foreign currencies may cause unforeseen losses, which may negatively affect our business.
Chile, Argentina and Bolivia are the most significant foreign countries in which we directly or indirectly own or operate mining properties or developmental projects. We also conduct exploratory projects in these countries. Argentina, while currently economically and politically stable, has experienced political instability, currency value fluctuations and changes in banking regulations in recent years. Although the governments and economies of Chile and Bolivia have been relatively stable in recent years, property ownership in a foreign country is generally subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization with inadequate compensation. Any foreign operations or investment may also be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation and laws or policies of particular countries as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade investment and taxation. We may enter into agreements which require us to purchase currencies of foreign countries in which we do business in order to ensure fixed exchange rates. In the event that actual exchange rates vary from those set forth in the hedge contracts, we will experience U.S. dollar-denominated currency gains or losses. Future economic or political instabilities or changes in the laws of foreign countries in which we have significant operations or interests and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our foreign operations and our business as whole.
Any of our future acquisitions may result in significant risks, which may adversely affect our business.
An important element of our business strategy is the opportunistic acquisition of silver and gold mines, properties and businesses. While it is our practice to engage independent mining consultants to assist in evaluating and making acquisitions, any mining properties we may acquire may not be developed profitably or, if profitable when acquired, that profitability might not be sustained. In connection with any future acquisitions, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities, resulting in dilution of the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We intend to seek shareholder approval for any such acquisitions to the extent required by applicable law, regulations or stock exchange rules. We cannot predict the impact of future acquisitions on the price of our business or our common stock. Unprofitable acquisitions, or additional indebtedness or issuances of securities in connection with such acquisitions, may adversely affect our results of operations.
Our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties is uncertain. Accordingly, our prospects are uncertain for the future growth of our business.
Because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. Identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. Furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing silver and gold. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. Consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties on terms we consider acceptable. As a result, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth.
Third parties may dispute our unpatented mining claims, which could result in losses affecting our business.
The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of our property holdings in the United States, is often uncertain and may be contested. Although we have attempted to acquire satisfactory title to undeveloped properties, we, in accordance with mining industry practice, do not generally obtain title opinions until a decision is made to develop a property. As a result, some titles, particularly titles to undeveloped properties, may be defective. Defective title to any of our mining claims could result in litigation, insurance claims, and potential losses adversely affecting our business as a whole.
Item 3.