Item 2. Properties
SILVER AND GOLD MINING PROPERTIES
Coeur Mining's significant production and development properties are described below. Operating statistics are presented in the section entitled "Operating Statistics" below.
Mexico - Palmarejo
The Palmarejo surface and underground silver and gold mine, and associated milling operation, owned and operated by Coeur Mexicana, is located in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico. Access to the property is provided by air, rail, and all-weather paved and gravel roads from the state capitol of Chihuahua. Silver and gold production from Palmarejo was approximately 6.6 million ounces and 86,673 ounces in 2014, respectively. At December 31, 2014, we reported 30.7 million ounces of silver reserves and 487,710 ounces of gold reserves at Palmarejo.
The Company’s large property position at Palmarejo consists of 36 contiguous mining concessions totaling approximately 30,350 acres (approximately 12,282 hectares) in size, located in the southwest part of the state of Chihuahua. Coeur Mexicana owns 100% of the legal and beneficial interests in and to these mining concessions, which cover over 47 square miles. All of the Company’s ore reserves are located within these mining concessions. All mining concessions owned by Coeur Mexicana are valid until at least 2029. In addition to Palmarejo, the Company also owns 17 mining concessions, encompassing approximately 20,845 acres (approximately 8,436 hectares) at the Yécora exploration stage property, principally located in the state of Sonora, but which also extends into the state of Chihuahua, and two mining concessions covering approximately 17,717 acres (approximately 7,170 hectares) at the La Guitarra exploration stage property in Chihuahua, southeast of Palmarejo.
The Palmarejo mine is located on the western flank of the Sierra Madre Occidental, a mountain range that comprises the central spine of northern Mexico. The north-northwest trending Sierra Madre Occidental is composed of a relatively flat-lying sequence of Tertiary volcanic rocks that forms a volcanic plateau, cut by numerous igneous intrusive rocks. This volcanic plateau is deeply incised in the Palmarejo mine area, forming steep-walled canyons. The Sierra Madre Occidental gives way to the west
to an extensional terrain that represents the southward continuation of the Basin and Range Province of the western United States, and then to the coastal plain of western Mexico.
The gold and silver deposits at the Palmarejo mine, typical of many of the other silver and gold deposits in the Sierra Madre, are classified as epithermal deposits and are hosted in multiple veins, breccias, and fractures. These geologic structures trend generally northwest to southeast and dip either southwest or northeast. The dip on the structures ranges from about 45 degrees to 70 degrees. In the mineralized portions of the structures gold and silver are zoned from top to bottom with higher silver values occurring in the upper parts of the deposit and higher gold values in the lower parts, sometimes accompanied by base metal mineralization, though local variations are common. The Palmarejo property contains a number of mineralized zones or areas of interest. The most important of these to date is the Palmarejo zone in the north of the mining concessions, which covers the old Palmarejo gold-silver mine formed at the intersection of the northwest-southeast trending La Prieta and La Blanca gold-and-silver bearing structures. In addition to Palmarejo, other mineralized vein and alteration systems in the district area have been identified all roughly sub-parallel to the Palmarejo zone. The most significant of these additional targets are the Guadalupe (including Animas) and La Patria vein systems in the southern part of the property, which are currently under development and exploration by the Company.
In 2009, Coeur Mexicana entered into a gold production royalty transaction with Franco-Nevada Corporation under which Franco-Nevada purchased a royalty covering 50% of the life of mine gold to be produced by Coeur from the Palmarejo mine. A total of 84,915 ounces of gold remain outstanding at December 31, 2014 under the minimum royalty obligation. On October 2, 2014, Coeur Mexicana terminated the Palmarejo gold production royalty effective upon completion of the minimum ounce delivery requirement. Subsequently, Coeur Mexicana entered into a gold stream agreement with a subsidiary of Franco-Nevada Corporation whereby Coeur Mexicana will sell 50% of Palmarejo gold production upon completion of the gold production royalty minimum ounce delivery requirement for the lesser of $800 or spot price per ounce.
Paramount owns the San Miguel project that is located immediately adjacent to Coeur's Palmarejo mine. San Miguel is expected to become a part of the Palmarejo mine if Coeur's acquisition of Paramount closes, which is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2015.
USA - Rochester
The Rochester mine, and associated heap leach facilities, is an open pit silver and gold mine located in Pershing County, Nevada, approximately 12 miles north of the city of Lovelock. The Company owns 100% of the Rochester Mine through Coeur Rochester. The mine consists of the main Rochester deposit and the adjacent Nevada Packard deposit, southwest of Rochester. The Rochester mine is fully supported with electricity, supplied by a local power company on their public grid, telephone and radio communications, production water wells, and processing, maintenance, warehouse, and office facilities. All of these facilities are in good operating condition with no major maintenance expected. Ore is mined using conventional open pit methods, with gold and silver recovered by heap leaching of crushed open-pit ore placed on pads located within the Rochester mining area. Based upon actual operating experience and metallurgical testing, the Company estimates ultimate recovery rates from the crushed ore of 61.0% for silver, depending on the ore being leached, and 92.0% for gold. Silver and gold production from Rochester was approximately 4.2 million ounces and 44,888 ounces in 2014, respectively. At December 31, 2014, we reported 80.2 million ounces of silver reserves and 518,000 ounces of gold reserves at Rochester.
Coeur Rochester lands consist of approximately 11,272 net acres, which encompasses 619 Federal unpatented lode claims, appropriating approximately 9,669 net acres of Public Land, 21 patented lode claims, consisting of approximately 357 acres, interests owned in approximately 1,420 gross acres of additional real property and certain rights in and to approximately 442 acres, held either through lease, letter agreement or license.
The Company acquired the Rochester property from ASARCO in 1983 and commenced mining in 1986. No mining or processing was conducted at Rochester by the prior owner. The Company acquired its initial interest in the adjacent Nevada Packard property in 1996, completed the full purchase in 1999 and commenced mining in 2003. However, mining of the Nevada Packard property has since ceased. The prior owner conducted very limited mining and processing at Nevada Packard. Collectively, the Rochester and Nevada Packard properties, together with other adjacent and contiguous lands subsequently acquired, comprise the Rochester silver and gold processing operation. The Federal unpatented lode claims are maintained via annual filings and timely payment of claim maintenance fees to the BLM, which acts as administrator of the claims.
At Rochester, silver and gold mineralization is hosted in folded and faulted volcanic rocks of the Rochester Formation and overlying Weaver Formation. Silver and gold, consisting of silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite, silver-bearing tetrahedrite and minor native gold, are contained in zones of multiple quartz veins and veinlets (vein, vein swarms and stockworks) with variable amounts of pyrite.
The Company is obligated to pay a NSR royalty to ASARCO, the prior owner, when the average quarterly market price of silver equals or exceeds $23.60 per ounce indexed for inflation up to a maximum rate of 5% with the condition that Rochester achieves positive cash flow for the applicable year. If cash flow at Rochester is negative in any calendar year, the maximum royalty payable is $250,000.
Coeur Rochester is obligated to pay a 3.4% NSR royalty on up to 39.4 million silver equivalent ounces produced and sold from a portion of the Rochester mine (including stockpile ore, mineral processing facilities and mining claims located in the Sections set forth in the NSR royalty agreement) commencing January 1, 2014. For each calendar quarter, the royalty is payable on the actual sales prices received at the time of sale (exclusive of gains or losses associated with trading activities), less refining costs, of gold and silver produced and sold from the Rochester mine. At December 31, 2014, 35.5 million silver equivalent ounces remain subject to the 3.4% NSR royalty.
USA - Kensington
The Kensington underground gold mine and associated milling facilities are located on the east side of the Lynn Canal about 45 miles north-northwest of Juneau, Alaska. The Company controls 100% of the mine through Coeur Alaska. The mine is accessed by a horizontal tunnel and utilizes conventional and mechanized underground mining methods. Ore is processed in a flotation mill that produces a concentrate that is sold to third party smelters. Waste material is deposited in an impoundment facility on the property. Power is supplied to the site by on-site diesel generators. Access to the mine is by either a combination of road vehicles, boat, helicopter, floatplane, or by boat direct from Juneau. Gold production from Kensington was 117,823 ounces in 2014. At December 31, 2014, we reported 629,362 ounces of gold reserves at Kensington.
Coeur Alaska controls two contiguous property groups: the Kensington Group and Jualin Group. The Kensington Group, totaling approximately 3,969 net acres, consists of 51 patented lode and patented mill site claims comprising approximately 766 net acres, 284 Federal unpatented lode claims covering approximately 3,108 net acres, and 13 State of Alaska mining claims covering approximately 95 net acres. The Jualin Group, totaling approximately 8,399 net acres, is composed of 23 patented lode and patented mill site claims covering approximately 388 net acres, 471 Federal unpatented lode claims and 1 Federal unpatented mill Site claim appropriating approximately 7,916 net acres, and 30 State of Alaska mining claims comprising approximately 346 net acres. 14 of the 23 patented lode claims cover private surface estate only. The mineral estate, within the boundaries of these 14 patented lode claims is owned by the State of Alaska, the mineral rights to which are secured by State of Alaska mining claims. The Company controls properties comprising the Jualin Group, under a lease agreement with Hyak Mining Company, which is valid until August 5, 2035 and thereafter, provided mining and production are actively occurring within and from the leased premises.
The Federal unpatented lode and Federal unpatented mill site claims are maintained via annual filings and timely payment of claim maintenance fees to the BLM, which acts as administrator of the claims. State of Alaska mining claims are maintained via filings and fees to the Alaska Department of Natural Resources, Division of Mining, Land and Water and the Juneau Recorder’s Office. Real property taxes are paid annually to the City and Borough of Juneau for the patented lode claims. Lease payments are paid annually and all leases are in good standing.
The Kensington ore deposit consists of multiple gold bearing mesothermal, quartz, carbonate and pyrite vein swarms and discrete quartz-pyrite veins hosted in Cretaceous-aged Jualin diorite. Most of the gold is contained in calaverite (AuTe2) that occurs in association with native gold as inclusions in and interstitial to pyrite grains and in microfractures in pyrite.
Bolivia - San Bartolomé
The San Bartolomé silver mine, and associated milling operation, operated by Manquiri, is located on the flanks of the Cerro Rico Mountain bordering the town of Potosí, in the department of Potosí, Bolivia. Access to the property and Manquiri’s processing facilities is by paved and all-weather gravel roads leading south-southwest from Potosí. Silver was first discovered in the area around 1545. Mining of silver and lesser amounts of tin and base metals has been conducted nearly continuously since that time from multiple underground mines driven into Cerro Rico. Silver production from San Bartolomé was approximately 5.9 million ounces in 2014. At December 31, 2014, we reported 46.0 million ounces of silver reserves at San Bartolomé.
The silver mineralization at San Bartolomé is hosted in unconsolidated sediments (pallacos), reworked sediments (sucus and troceras), and oxide stockpiles and dumps (desmontes) from past mining that occurred on Cerro Rico. Cerro Rico is a prominent mountain in the region that reaches an elevation of over 15,400 feet (over 4,700 meters). It is composed of Tertiary-aged volcanic and intrusive rocks that were emplaced into and over older sedimentary, and volcanic, basement rocks. Silver, along with tin and base metals, is located in multiple veins and vein swarms and stockworks that occur in a northeast trending belt, which transects Cerro Rico. The upper parts of the Cerro Rico mineralized system were subsequently eroded and re-deposited into the flanking gravel deposits. Silver is hosted in all portions of the pallacos, sucus, and troceras with the best grades segregated to the coarser-grained silicified fragments. These deposits lend themselves to simple, free digging surface mining techniques and can be extracted
without drilling and blasting. Of the several pallaco deposits that are controlled by Manquiri and surround Cerro Rico, three are of primary importance and are known as Huacajchi, Diablo, and Santa Rita.
The mineral and mining rights for the San Bartolomé mine are held through a mixture of joint venture agreements, long-term lease agreements, and Autorizaciones Transitorias Especiales (similar to mining concessions) with seven independent mining cooperatives and the Bolivian state-owned mining organization COMIBOL. Manquiri controls 2.5 acres (1.01 hectares) of land at San Bartolomé, around Cerro Rico, through these agreements and Autorizaciones Transitorias Especiales and approximately 8,587 acres (3,475 hectares) of Autorizaciones Transitorias Especiales at the Rio Blanco property, a gold exploration target south of Potosí. The San Bartolomé agreements expire between 2021 and 2028 and are generally subject to a production royalty payable partially to the cooperatives and partially to COMIBOL. The royalty rate is 3% at silver prices below $4 per ounce and 6% at prices above $8 per ounce. The rate is a factor of 75% of the silver price between $4 and $8. The Company has additional mining rights, known as the Plahipo project, which include the mining rights to oxide dumps adjacent to the original property package. The oxide dumps included in the Plahipo project are subject to a sliding scale royalty payable to COMIBOL that is a function of silver price. Manquiri incurred royalty payment obligations to COMIBOL and the Cooperatives for these mining rights totaling $4.2 million and $5.3 million for the years ended 2014 and 2013, respectively.
STREAMING AND ROYALTY INTERESTS
Australia - Endeavor
The Endeavor mine and associated mill facility is an underground silver and base metal operation located in north-central New South Wales, Australia, about 447 miles (720 kilometers) from Sydney. Access to the mine is by paved roads 30 miles (18 kilometers) to the northwest from the community of Cobar. The ore reserves at Endeavor are covered by five consolidated mining leases issued by the state of New South Wales to Cobar Operations Pty. Limited (“Cobar”), a wholly owned subsidiary of CBH Resources Ltd. (“CBH”), which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Toho Zinc Co. Ltd., a company listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The leases form a contiguous block of 10,121 acres in size and expire between 2019 and 2027. The mine employs bulk mining methods and utilizes a conventional flotation mill to produce a concentrate that is sold to a third-party smelter. Power to the mine and processing facilities is provided by the grid servicing the local communities. The property and equipment are maintained in good working condition by CBH through a regular preventive maintenance program with periodic improvements as required. Silver production from Endeavor was approximately 0.6 million ounces in 2014. At December 31, 2014, we reported 4.9 million ounces of silver reserves at Endeavor.
The Endeavor mine has been in production since 1983 and is owned and operated by CBH. On May 23, 2005, CDE Australia Pty. Ltd. (“CDE Australia”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Coeur Capital, acquired all of the silver production and reserves, up to a maximum 17.7 million payable ounces, contained at the Endeavor Mine, for $44.0 million including transaction fees. Under the terms of the original agreement, CDE Australia paid Cobar $15.4 million of cash at the closing. In addition, CDE Australia agreed to pay Cobar approximately $26.5 million upon the receipt of a report confirming that the reserves at the Endeavor mine are equal to or greater than the reported ore reserves for 2004. CDE Australia originally committed to pay Cobar an operating cost contribution of $1.00 for each ounce of payable silver (indexed annually and currently $1.29 an ounce) plus a further increment when the silver price exceeds $5.23 per ounce. This further increment was to have begun on the second anniversary of this agreement and is 50% of the amount by which the silver price exceeds $5.23 per ounce. A cost contribution of $0.25 per ounce is also payable by CDE Australia in respect of new ounces of proven and probable silver reserves as they are discovered. During the first quarter of 2007, $2.1 million was paid for additional ounces of proven and probable silver reserves under the terms of the contract. The Company is not required to contribute to ongoing capital costs at the mine.
On March 28, 2006, CDE Australia reached an agreement with CBH to modify the terms of the original silver purchase agreement. Under the modified terms, CDE Australia owns all silver production and reserves up to a total of 20.0 million payable ounces, up from 17.7 million payable ounces in the original agreement. The silver price-sharing provision was deferred until such time as CDE Australia had received approximately two million cumulative ounces of silver from the mine or June 2007, whichever was later. In addition, the silver price-sharing threshold increased to $7.00 per ounce, from the previous level of $5.23 per ounce. The conditions relating to the second payment were also modified and tied to certain paste fill plant performance criteria and mill throughput tests. In January 2008, the mine met the criteria for payment of the additional $26.2 million. This amount was paid on April 1, 2008, plus accrued interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum from January 24, 2008. Expansion of the ore reserve will be required to achieve the maximum payable ounces of silver production as set forth in the modified contract. It is expected that future expansion to the ore reserve will occur as a result of the conversion of portions of the property’s existing inventory of mineralized material and future exploration discoveries near the mine.
At Endeavor, silver, lead, zinc and lesser amounts of copper mineralization are contained within sulfide lenses hosted in fine-grained sedimentary rocks of the Paleozoic-aged Amphitheatre Group. Sulfide lenses are elliptically-shaped, steeply-dipping to the southwest and strike to the northwest. Principal ore minerals are galena, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Silver occurs with both lead- and zinc-rich sulfide zones.
Mexico - El Gallo
The El Gallo/Magistral complex is operated by McEwen Mining and is located in Mexico’s State of Sinaloa, along the foothills of the Sierra Madre Mountains. The complex includes the El Gallo and Palmarito silver deposits and the Magistral gold deposit, located within an eight mile (13 kilometer) radius. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Coeur Capital, owns a tiered royalty on the mine's production for the life of mine, currently paying a 3.5% NSR royalty.
Ecuador - Zaruma
The Zaruma gold mine is operated and developed by Dynasty Metals & Mining and is located in the cantons of Zaruma and Portovelo, Province of El Oro, Ecuador. The mine is in pre-commercial production, with processing of ore to doré occurring at a processing plant located in Zaruma, Ecuador. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Coeur Capital, owns a 1.5% NSR royalty on the mine's production for the life of mine.
Chile - Cerro Bayo
The Cerro Bayo underground silver-gold mine is operated by Mandalay Resources and is located in southern Chile, approximately 81 miles (130 kilometers) south of Coyhaique. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Coeur Capital, owns a 2.0% NSR royalty on the mine's production for the life of mine.
New Zealand - Correnso
The Correnso underground gold mine is operated by Newmont Mining Corporation and is located near the town of Waihi, New Zealand. The Company owns an 80% interest in a 2.5% royalty on the mine's production for the life of the mine.
Other Royalties
The Company also owns several royalties on non-producing properties.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES
Mexico - La Preciosa Project
On April 16, 2013, the Company completed its acquisition of Orko Silver Corporation (since renamed Coeur La Preciosa Silver Corp.), which owns the mining concessions of the La Preciosa project. La Preciosa is an advanced-stage silver and gold exploration project located approximately 52 miles (84 kilometers) northeast of the city of Durango in Durango State, Mexico. The La Preciosa property comprises 14 mining concessions, covering an area of approximately 95,340 acres (approximately 38,583 hectares), located along the eastern flank of the Sierra Madre Occidental Mountain range. At December 31, 2014, we reported 118.7 million ounces of silver reserves and 202,079 ounces of gold reserves at La Preciosa The Company completed a feasibility study in 2014, and has deferred construction activities until expected returns improve.
The Tertiary age epithermal quartz veins containing economic levels of silver and gold mineralization are hosted in Cretaceous age conglomerate and Tertiary age andesitic volcanic rocks. The veins at the La Preciosa have been classified as low- to intermediate-sulfidation type. Two major vein and vein breccia systems are exposed on hills and ridges on either side of an approximately 800 meter wide valley. The dominant geological feature on the Property is the northwest-trending La Preciosa Ridge which hosts the north-striking and westward-dipping main vein system, which includes the Martha, Abundancia, Gloria, Pica, Luz Elena, Sur, and Nueva veins. These veins are crosscut by east-striking, south-dipping transversal veins. The major vein breccia system to the east of La Preciosa Ridge on the eastern side of the valley floor includes the northwest striking Zona Oriente and Zona Oriente Extension, which is believed to be the surface expression of the Martha vein.
Argentina - Joaquin Project
The Joaquin silver and gold exploration project is located in the Santa Cruz province of southern Argentina, approximately 43 miles (70 kilometers) north of the Company's now dormant Martha mine. The property is accessed by all-weather dirt roads, leading north-northeast from the town of Gobernador Gregores. The Joaquin property encompasses over 60,444 acres (24,461 hectares) of Cateos and MDs. On December 21, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of the equity interests of Mirasol Argentina SRL. Coeur previously held a 51% interest in the project.
The geology of the Joaquin property consists dominantly of various volcanic rocks of the Jurassic-aged Chon Aike Formation, the host to most of the precious metal deposits discovered to date in the Santa Cruz province, with lesser amounts of
intrusive rocks associated with the Chon Aike Formation. Collectively, the volcanic and intrusive rock units form a prominent geologic domain in the province termed the Deseado Massif. Silver and gold mineralization at Joaquin occurs in epithermal veins, breccia, stockwork veinlets and mantos within the favorable units of the Chon Aike Formation. Occurrences of lead and zinc mineralization have also been discovered. Locally, the rocks of the Deseado Massif are covered by Tertiary-aged basalt and younger unconsolidated sediments, that post-date silver and gold mineralization.
Argentina - Martha Mine
The Martha underground silver and gold mine is located in the Santa Cruz province of southern Argentina, owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Martha mine ceased active mining operations in September 2012. The mineral rights for the Martha property are fully owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L. Surface rights covering the Martha deposit are controlled by the 138 square mile (35,705 hectare) Cerro Primero de Abril Estancia, which is owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
Exploration expense was $21.7 million, $22.4 million, and $26.3 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Coeur's exploration program completed over 446,547 feet (136,108 meters) of combined core and reverse circulation drilling in 2014.
Mexico - Palmarejo
Exploration in 2014 was focused primarily around the Palmarejo surface and underground mines. A total of $6.9 million was spent in 2014 on mapping, sampling, drill target generation, and drilling to identify and define new silver and gold mineralization, for a total of 82,617 feet (25,182 meters). The Company expects to spend $4.7 million in 2015 to discover and expand silver and gold mineralization in the Guadalupe-Independencia corridor, and for new project reviews in Mexico.
USA - Kensington
Exploration in 2014 consisted of drilling 187,558 feet (57,168 meters) at Kensington. A total of $8.0 million was spent in 2014, primarily to expand and define mineralization in the main Kensington deposit, while discovery drilling was primarily focused on the high-grade Jualin area south of main Kensington. The Company expects to spend $2.2 million in 2015 for additional expansion at Jualin and South Kensington.
USA - Rochester
The Company spent $2.5 million on exploration at Rochester to conduct programs focused on expansion and definition drilling in 2014, which amounted to 164,417 feet (50,114 meters) for the year. The Company expects to spend $1.2 million in 2015 for additional target generation and drill testing around Rochester.
Bolivia - San Bartolomé
In 2014, the Company spent $0.1 million to complete trenching and sampling at several silver-bearing gravel deposits to expand and define known silver mineralization. The Company expects to spend $0.4 million in 2015 for follow-up trenching and sampling around San Bartolomé and for land holding costs.
Project Evaluation
The Company spent $2.5 million in 2014 to evaluate and explore several new project opportunities in the United States and Mexico with a total of 11,955 feet (3,656 meters) drilled at the Wonder Project in Nevada. The Company expects to spend $2.5 million in 2015 for additional drilling at the Wonder Project and several other projects.
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures
PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES
(1)
Certain definitions:
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “proven (measured) reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable (indicated) reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Proven and probable reserves include silver attributable to Coeur’s ownership or economic interest in the Endeavor project.
The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process. Cutoff grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, by-products, amenability of the mineralized material to silver or gold extraction and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
(2)
Effective at December 31, 2014. Assumed metal prices for estimated 2014 proven and probable reserves were $19.00 per ounce of silver and $1,275 per ounce of gold except where otherwise noted. Assumed metal prices for estimated 2013 proven and probable reserves were $25.00 per ounce of silver and $1,450 per ounce of gold except where otherwise noted.
(3)
Mineral reserve estimates, with the exception of Endeavor, were prepared by the Company's technical staff with the assistance of independent consulting firms. Endeavor mineral reserve estimates were prepared by the CBH Resources Ltd. staff and reviewed by the Company’s technical staff.
(4)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grade for mineral reserves is 0.15 oz/ton Au
(5)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grades for mineral reserves range from 2.9 to 3.5 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 58.4)) for underground, and 1.4 to 1.9 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 71.7)) for open pit.
(6)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grades for mineral reserves range from 85 to 133 g/tonne Ag based on material.
(7)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grade for mineral reserves is 0.48 oz/ton AgEq (silver equivalent = Ag oz/ton + (Au oz/ton × 102)).
(8)
Effective at June 30, 2014, which is the end of the most recent fiscal year of the operator, CBH Resources Ltd. These totals do not include additions or depletions through December 31, 2013. Mineral reserves were estimated with a cutoff grade of 10.0% combined lead and zinc. Metal prices used were $2,400 per metric ton of zinc, $2,200 per metric ton of lead, and $20.00 per ounce of silver.
(9)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. A Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff of $16.88/tonne was used, based on the following parameters: NSR = [(Ag price per ounce - refining charge) × plant recovery × payable recovery] + [(Au price per ounce - refining charge) × plant recovery × payable recovery]
MINERALIZED MATERIAL
(1)
Assumed metal prices for estimated 2014 mineralized material were $22.00 per ounce of silver and $1,300 per ounce of gold. Assumed metal prices for estimated 2013 mineralized material were $29.00 per ounce of silver and $1,600 per ounce of gold.
(2)
Estimated with mining cost parameters and initial metallurgical test results.
(3)
Estimates were prepared by a number of different consulting groups and supervised by the Company's personnel.
(4)
Estimated using 3-dimensional geologic modeling and geostatistical evaluation of the exploration drill data. Mineralized material is reported exclusive of reserves. “Mineralized material” as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, although permissible under Guide 7, does not indicate “reserves” by SEC standards. There is no certainty that any part of the reported mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into Guide 7 compliant “reserves”.
(5)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. Cutoff grades for mineralized material at Palmarejo is: underground mineralized material 2.74 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 65.4)); and open pit mineralized material 1.35 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 65.5)). Cutoff grades for mineralized material at Guadalupe is: underground mineralized material 3.39 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 52.1)); and open pit mineralized material 1.87 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 52.1)). New drilling (current through mid-2014) has been included in the mineralized material estimate. Cutoff grades for Independencia underground mineralized material is 90 g/tonne AuEq (gold equivalent = Au g/tonne + (Ag g/tonne × 60)).
(6)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. Cutoff grades for mineralized material range from 73 to 127 g/tonne Ag based on material.
(7)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 0.123 oz/ton Au.
(8)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 0.41 oz/ton AgEq (silver equivalent = Ag oz/ton + (Au oz/ton × 93)).
(9)
Prepared by CBH Resources Ltd. staff and reviewed by the Company’s technical staff.
(10)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. A Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff of $16.88/tonne was used, based on the following parameters: NSR = [(Ag price per ounce - refining charge) × plant recovery × payable recovery] + [(Au price per ounce - refining charge) × plant recovery × payable recovery]
(11)
Calculated based on a cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 35.52 g/tonne Ag for oxides and 27.35 g/tonne Ag for sulfides.
(12)
Calculated based on a cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 45.66 g/tonne Ag for oxides and 27.35 g/tonne Ag for sulfides.
(13)
No changes were made to cutoff grades in 2014 for the Martha project.
Item 3.