Item 2. Properties
SILVER AND GOLD MINING PROPERTIES
Coeur Mining's significant production and development properties are described below. Operating statistics are presented in the section entitled "Operating Statistics" below.
Mexico - Palmarejo
The Palmarejo complex consists of (1) the Palmarejo mine and mill; (2) the Guadalupe underground mine, located about 8 kilometers southeast of the Palmarejo mine; (3) the Independencia underground mine, located approximately 800 meters northeast of the Guadalupe underground mine; and (4) other nearby deposits and exploration targets. The Palmarejo complex is located in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico. Access to the property is provided by air, rail, and all-weather paved and gravel roads from the state capitol of Chihuahua. Silver and gold production from the Palmarejo complex was approximately 4.4 million ounces and 73,913 ounces in 2016, respectively. At December 31, 2016, we reported 40.8 million ounces of silver reserves and 592,000 ounces of gold reserves at the Palmarejo complex.
In April 2015, Coeur completed its acquisition of Paramount Gold and Silver Corp. (“Paramount”) in an all-stock transaction valued at approximately $146.0 million. Following completion of the transaction, Paramount, together with its wholly-owned subsidiary, Paramount Gold de Mexico ("Paramount Mexico"), became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Coeur. In September 2016, Paramount Mexico was merged into Coeur Mexicana. Upon completion of this merger, Coeur Mexicana became the legal owner of all mining concessions that comprise the Palmarejo complex.
The Palmarejo complex consists of 79 wholly-owned mining concessions, covering approximately 112,520 acres (45,535.18 hectares) of land. In total, the Palmarejo complex covers over 175 square miles. All mining concessions owned by Coeur Mexicana are valid until at least 2029.
The Palmarejo complex is located on the western flank of the Sierra Madre Occidental, a mountain range that comprises the central spine of northern Mexico. The north-northwest trending Sierra Madre Occidental is composed of a relatively flat-lying sequence of Tertiary volcanic rocks that forms a volcanic plateau, cut by numerous igneous intrusive rocks. This volcanic plateau is deeply incised in the Palmarejo mine area, forming steep-walled canyons. The Sierra Madre Occidental gives way to the west to an extensional terrain that represents the southward continuation of the Basin and Range Province of the western United States, and then to the coastal plain of western Mexico.
The gold and silver deposits at the Palmarejo complex, typical of many of the other silver and gold deposits in the Sierra Madre, are classified as epithermal deposits and are hosted in multiple veins, breccias, and fractures. These geologic structures trend generally northwest to southeast and dip either southwest or northeast. The dip on the structures ranges from about 45 degrees to 70 degrees. In the mineralized portions of the structures, gold and silver are zoned from top to bottom with higher silver values occurring in the upper parts of the deposit and higher gold values in the lower parts, sometimes accompanied by base metal mineralization, though local variations are common. The Palmarejo complex contains a number of mineralized zones or areas of interest. The most important of these to date is the Palmarejo zone in the north of the mining concessions, which covers the old Palmarejo gold-silver mine formed at the intersection of the northwest-southeast trending La Prieta and La Blanca gold-and-silver bearing structures. In addition to the Palmarejo zone, other mineralized vein and alteration systems in the district area have been identified all roughly sub-parallel to the Palmarejo zone. The most significant of these additional targets are the Guadalupe (including Animas), Independencia, and La Patria vein systems in the southern part of the property, which are currently under development (Guadalupe and Independencia) and exploration (La Patria) by the Company.
In 2009, Coeur Mexicana entered into a gold production royalty transaction with a subsidiary of Franco-Nevada Corporation under which Franco-Nevada purchased a royalty covering 50% of the life of mine gold to be produced by Coeur from the Palmarejo mine. In 2014, Coeur Mexicana terminated the Palmarejo gold production royalty effective upon completion of the minimum ounce delivery requirement. Subsequently, Coeur Mexicana entered into a gold stream agreement with a subsidiary of Franco-Nevada Corporation whereby Coeur Mexicana will sell 50% of Coeur Mexicana Property gold production upon completion of the gold production royalty minimum ounce delivery requirement for the lesser of $800 or spot price per ounce. The gold production royalty was terminated in July 2016 upon delivery of the minimum ounce requirement and the new gold stream agreement is now in effect. The properties acquired by Coeur in the Paramount transaction are not subject to the gold stream agreement.
USA - Rochester
The Rochester mine, and associated heap leach facilities, is an open pit silver and gold mine located in Pershing County, Nevada, approximately 13 miles northeast of the city of Lovelock. The Company owns 100% of the Rochester Mine through Coeur Rochester. The mine consists of the main Rochester deposit and the adjacent Nevada Packard deposit, southwest of the Rochester mine. The Rochester mine is fully supported with electricity, supplied by a local power company on their public grid, telephone and radio communications, production water wells, and processing, maintenance, warehouse, and office facilities. Ore is mined using conventional open pit methods, with gold and silver recovered by heap leaching of crushed open-pit ore placed on pads located within the Rochester mining area. Based upon actual operating experience and metallurgical testing, the Company estimates ultimate recovery rates from the crushed ore of 61.0% for silver, depending on the ore being leached, and 92.0% for gold. Silver and gold production from Rochester was approximately 4.6 million ounces and 50,751 ounces in 2016, respectively. At December 31, 2016, we reported 112.0 million ounces of silver reserves and 803,000 ounces of gold reserves at the Rochester mine.
Coeur Rochester lands consist of approximately 16,354 net acres, which encompasses 734 Federal unpatented lode claims, appropriating approximately 11,075 net acres of Public Land, 21 patented lode claims, consisting of approximately 357 acres, interests owned in approximately 4,634 gross acres of additional real property and certain rights in and to approximately 269 acres, held either through lease, letter agreement or license.
The Company acquired the Rochester property from ASARCO in 1983 and commenced mining in 1986. No mining or processing was conducted at Rochester by the prior owner. The Company acquired its initial interest in the adjacent Nevada Packard property in 1996, completed the full purchase in 1999 and commenced mining in 2003. However, mining of the Nevada Packard property has since ceased. The prior owner conducted very limited mining and processing at Nevada Packard. Collectively, the Rochester and Nevada Packard properties, together with other adjacent and contiguous lands subsequently acquired, comprise the Rochester silver and gold processing operation. The Federal unpatented lode claims are maintained via annual filings and timely payment of claim maintenance fees to the BLM, which acts as administrator of the claims.
At Rochester, silver and gold mineralization is hosted in folded and faulted volcanic rocks of the Rochester Formation and overlying Weaver Formation. Silver and gold, consisting of silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite, silver-bearing tetrahedrite and minor native gold, are contained in zones of multiple quartz veins and veinlets (vein, vein swarms and stockworks) with variable amounts of pyrite.
The Company is obligated to pay a NSR royalty to ASARCO, the prior owner, when the average quarterly market price of silver equals or exceeds $23.60 per ounce indexed for inflation up to a maximum rate of 5% with the condition that the Rochester mine achieves positive cash flow for the applicable year. If cash flow is negative in any calendar year, the maximum royalty payable is $250,000.
Coeur Rochester is obligated to pay a 3.4% NSR royalty on up to 39.4 million silver equivalent ounces produced and sold from a portion of the Rochester mine (including stockpile ore, mineral processing facilities and mining claims located in the Sections set forth in the NSR royalty agreement) commencing January 1, 2014. For each calendar quarter, the royalty is payable on the actual sales prices received at the time of sale (exclusive of gains or losses associated with trading activities), less refining costs, of gold and silver produced and sold from the Rochester mine. At December 31, 2016, 18.0 million silver equivalent ounces remain subject to the 3.4% NSR royalty.
USA - Kensington
The Kensington underground gold mine and associated milling facilities are located on the east side of the Lynn Canal about 45 miles north-northwest of Juneau, Alaska. The Company controls 100% of the mine through Coeur Alaska. The mine is accessed by a horizontal tunnel and utilizes conventional and mechanized underground mining methods. Ore is processed in a flotation mill that produces a concentrate that is sold to third party smelters. Waste material is deposited in an impoundment facility on the property. Power is supplied by on-site diesel generators. Access to the mine is by either a combination of road vehicles, boat, helicopter, floatplane, or by boat direct from Juneau. Gold production from the Kensington mine was 124,331 ounces in 2016. At December 31, 2016, we reported 497,000 ounces of gold reserves at the Kensington mine.
Coeur Alaska controls two contiguous property groups: the Kensington Group and Jualin Group. The Kensington Group, totaling approximately 3,969 net acres, consists of 51 patented lode and patented mill site claims comprising approximately 766 net acres, 284 Federal unpatented lode claims covering approximately 3,108 net acres, and 13 State of Alaska mining claims covering approximately 95 net acres. The Jualin Group, totaling approximately 8,366 net acres, is comprised of 23 patented lode and patented mill site claims covering approximately 388 net acres, 471 Federal unpatented lode claims and 1 Federal unpatented mill site claim appropriating approximately 7,916 net acres, a State of Alaska upland mining lease comprising approximately 682 acres, one State of Alaska mining claim comprising approximately three acres and four State-selected mining claims covering approximately 70 acres. 14 of the 23 patented lode claims cover private surface estate only. The mineral estate to these 14 patented lode claims is owned by the State of Alaska, the mineral rights to which are secured by a State of Alaska upland mining lease. The Company controls properties comprising the Jualin Group, under a lease agreement with Hyak Mining Company, which is valid until August 5, 2035 and thereafter, provided mining and production are actively occurring within and from the leased premises.
The Federal unpatented lode and Federal unpatented mill site claims are maintained via annual filings and timely payment of claim maintenance fees to the BLM, which acts as administrator of the claims. State of Alaska mining claims and upland mining leases are maintained via fees and filings to the Alaska Department of Natural Resources, Division of Mining, Land and Water and the Juneau Recorder’s Office. Real property taxes are paid annually to the City and Borough of Juneau for the patented lode claims. Private lease payments are paid annually and all leases are in good standing.
The Kensington ore deposit consists of multiple gold bearing mesothermal, quartz, carbonate and pyrite vein swarms and discrete quartz-pyrite veins hosted in Cretaceous-aged Jualin diorite. Most of the gold is contained in calaverite (AuTe2) that occurs in association with native gold as inclusions in and interstitial to pyrite grains and in microfractures in pyrite.
USA - Wharf
The Wharf mine is located in the northern Black Hills of western South Dakota, approximately four miles south and west of the city of Lead, South Dakota. Access is established by paved road with power supplied by a local power company.
In February 2015, Coeur completed its acquisition of the Wharf mine. As a result of the acquisition, Coeur owns all of the issued and outstanding equity interests in Wharf and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Reward Mining Limited Partnership (“Golden Reward”). Gold production from the Wharf mine was 109,175 ounces in 2016. At December 31, 2016, we reported 639,000 ounces of gold reserves at Wharf.
There are two contiguous property groups located at the Wharf mine; the Wharf Group and the Golden Reward Group, owned or controlled by wholly-owned subsidiaries of Coeur and Wharf Resources. The Wharf Group is generally described as
the northern and western portions of the project, while the Golden Reward Group is generally described as the southern and eastern portion of the project.
The Wharf Group comprises 362 patented lode claims, 35 government lots, 123 subdivided lots, and 59 federal unpatented lode claims. The Wharf Group is comprised of approximately 3,638 net acres of surface, 652 net mineral acres where both the Precambrian and younger formations are owned or controlled, 3,243 net mineral acres of non-Precambrian mineral estate, and 1,603 net mineral acres of Precambrian mineral estate and 287 net acres of federal unpatented lode claims. The Golden Reward Group encompasses 218 patented lode claims, 14 government lots, 19 subdivided lots and 33 federal unpatented lode claims. The Golden Reward Group is comprised of approximately 1,563 net acres of surface estate, 2,987 net mineral acres of mineral estate where both the Precambrian and younger formations are owned or controlled, 357 net mineral acres of Non-Precambrian mineral estate, 153 net mineral acres of Precambrian mineral estate and 25 net acres of federal unpatented lode claims.
The federal unpatented lode claims are maintained by the timely annual payment of claim maintenance fees, payable to the BLM. The patented lands are private land and therefore not subject to federal claim maintenance requirements. However, as private land, they are subject to ad valorem property taxes assessed by Lawrence County, South Dakota, which may be paid semi-annually.
Wharf and Golden Reward are obligated to pay a sliding scale production royalty to Royal Gold, Inc. The royalty encumbers the majority of the land comprising the Wharf Group, together with a small portion of the lands encompassing the Golden Reward Group, and wholly excludes the Precambrian Mineral Estate. The sliding scale provides for a 2.0% royalty on the gross value less state severance taxes with a monthly average PM LBMA Gold Price of $500 or more per ounce.
Wharf and Golden Reward are also obligated to pay a 3.0% non-participating royalty to Donald D. Valentine, et al, on gold that is produced from ores mined and delivered to heap leach pads or recovered from tailings. This royalty encumbers the mineral estate, including the Precambrian Mineral Estate, of much of the lands comprising the Wharf Group, together with a small portion of the lands encompassing the Golden Reward Group. Wharf holds a right of first refusal to purchase this royalty upon any proposed transfer by the royalty holder.
Bolivia - San Bartolomé
The San Bartolomé silver mine, and associated milling operation, operated by Manquiri, is located on the flanks of the Cerro Rico mountain bordering the town of Potosí, in the department of Potosí, Bolivia. Access to the property and Manquiri’s processing facilities is by paved and all-weather gravel roads leading south-southwest from Potosí. Silver was first discovered in the area around 1545. Mining of silver and lesser amounts of tin and base metals has been conducted nearly continuously since that time from multiple underground mines driven into Cerro Rico. Silver production from the San Bartolomé mine was approximately 5.5 million ounces in 2016. At December 31, 2016, we reported 21.1 million ounces of silver reserves at the San Bartolomé mine.
The silver mineralization at the San Bartolomé mine is hosted in unconsolidated sediments (pallacos), reworked sediments (sucus and troceras), and oxide stockpiles and dumps (desmontes) from past mining that occurred on Cerro Rico. Cerro Rico is a prominent mountain in the region that reaches an elevation of over 15,400 feet (over 4,700 meters). It is composed of Tertiary-aged volcanic and intrusive rocks that were emplaced into and over older sedimentary, and volcanic, basement rocks. Silver, along with tin and base metals, is located in multiple veins and vein swarms and stockworks that occur in a northeast trending belt, which transects Cerro Rico. The upper parts of the Cerro Rico mineralized system were subsequently eroded and re-deposited into the flanking gravel deposits. Silver is hosted in all portions of the pallacos, sucus, and troceras with the best grades segregated to the coarser-grained silicified fragments. These deposits lend themselves to simple, free digging surface mining techniques and can be extracted without drilling and blasting. Of the several pallaco deposits that are controlled by Manquiri and surround Cerro Rico, three are of primary importance and are known as Huacajchi, Diablo, and Santa Rita.
The mineral and mining rights for the San Bartolomé mine are held through a mixture of JV Agreements, long-term lease agreements, and Autorizaciones Transitorias Especiales (similar to mining concessions) with seven independent mining cooperatives and the Bolivian state-owned mining organization COMIBOL. See “Item 1. Business - Government Regulation, Maintenance of Claims, Bolivia” for additional information. Manquiri controls three acres (one hectare) of land at San Bartolomé, around Cerro Rico, through these agreements and Autorizaciones Transitorias Especiales and approximately 8,587 acres (3,475 hectares) of Autorizaciones Transitorias Especiales at the Rio Blanco property, a gold exploration target south of Potosí that is in the process of being abandoned by Manquiri. The San Bartolomé agreements expire between 2021 and 2028 and are generally subject to a production royalty payable partially to the cooperatives and partially to COMIBOL. The royalty rate is 3% at silver prices below $4 per ounce and 6% at prices above $8 per ounce. Manquiri has additional mining rights, known as the Plahipo project, which include the mining rights to oxide dumps adjacent to the original property package. The oxide dumps included in the Plahipo project are subject to a sliding scale royalty payable to COMIBOL that is a function of silver price. Manquiri incurred royalty payment obligations to COMIBOL and the Cooperatives for these mining rights totaling $2.8 million and $2.6 million for the years ended 2016 and 2015, respectively.
In response to conflicts between local mining cooperatives and the Bolivian government, on September 1, 2016, the Bolivian government issued Supreme Decree No. 2891, which imposes tighter restrictions on mining cooperatives, including reversion of mining areas leased to the mining cooperatives by COMIBOL that are subject to joint venture agreements, leases or subleases with third parties to the Bolivian state. Although Bolivian government officials have made public statements that the decree will not impact Manquiri’s ability to continue operations in the areas subject to the JV Agreements and the JV Agreements continue to be formally in existence, any cancellation of leases between COMIBOL and the applicable mining cooperatives and/or the JV Agreements will require negotiation of and entry into contracts directly with COMIBOL to continue mining operations at the affected areas. In January 2017, an interim permit was granted to Manquiri allowing for continuation of mining operations in the areas subject to the JV Agreements pending negotiation of contracts directly with COMIBOL.
STREAMING AND ROYALTY INTERESTS
Australia - Endeavor
The Endeavor mine and associated mill facility is an underground silver and base metal operation in production since 1983 located in north-central New South Wales, Australia, about 30 miles (48 kilometers) northwest of the community of Cobar, accessible by paved road. The ore reserves at Endeavor are covered by five consolidated mining leases issued by the state of New South Wales to Cobar Operations Pty. Limited (“Cobar”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBH Resources Ltd., which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Toho Zinc Co. Ltd. The leases form a contiguous block of 10,121 acres in size and expire between 2019 and 2027. The mine employs bulk mining methods and utilizes a conventional flotation mill to produce a concentrate that is sold to a third-party smelter. Power to the mine and processing facilities is provided by the grid servicing the local communities. Silver production from Endeavor was approximately 0.2 million ounces in 2016. At July 1, 2016, we reported 2.6 million ounces of silver reserves at Endeavor.
In May 2005, CDE Australia Pty. Ltd. (“CDE Australia”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Coeur Capital, acquired silver production and reserves contained at the Endeavor Mine, for $44.0 million. Under the terms of the agreement, as modified in 2006, CDE Australia owns all silver production and reserves up to a total of 20.0 million ounces. CDE Australia has committed to pay Cobar an operating cost contribution of $1.00 for each ounce of silver (indexed annually and currently $1.32 an ounce) plus a further increment when the silver price exceeds $7.00 per ounce.
At Endeavor, silver, lead, zinc and lesser amounts of copper mineralization are contained within sulfide lenses hosted in fine-grained sedimentary rocks of the Paleozoic-aged Amphitheatre Group. Sulfide lenses are elliptically-shaped, steeply-dipping to the southwest and strike to the northwest. Principal ore minerals are galena, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Silver occurs with both lead- and zinc-rich sulfide zones.
Other Royalties
The Company owns several other royalties on pre-commercial production and exploration-stage properties.
NEAR-MINE EXPLORATION
Exploration expense was $12.9 million, $11.6 million, and $21.7 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Capitalized drilling was $12.9 million in 2016 and $6.0 million in 2015. Coeur's exploration program completed over 400,896 feet (122,195 meters) of combined core and reverse circulation drilling in 2016.
Mexico - Palmarejo
Exploration focused primarily on the expansion of the Guadalupe and Independencia underground mines, and discovery of the Los Bancos and Nación-Dana vein deposits. Exploration expense of $4.7 million related to mapping, sampling, drill target generation, and drilling new silver and gold mineralization (72,276 feet or 22,030 meters). Capitalized drilling of $6.0 million related to infill resource conversion drilling in the Guadalupe and Independencia ore bodies (98,499 feet or 30,023 meters).
The Company expects $6.9 million of exploration expense in 2017 to discover and expand silver and gold mineralization in the Guadalupe-Independencia corridor, mainly focused on expansion of northern portions of Independencia, Nación-Dana, La Bavisa, and new vein targets just west-northwest of Guadalupe Mine. Additionally, the Company is planning to spend $5.3 million of conversion drilling in the Guadalupe and Independencia ore bodies.
USA - Kensington
Exploration expense of $3.5 million consisted of drilling 36,860 feet (11,235 meters) while $2.7 million of conversion drilling completed 55,042 feet (16,777 meters) to expand and define mineralization in the main Kensington deposit. Exploration focused on testing new veins in the district as well as expansion of the high-grade Jualin resource, which became the focus of a revised preliminary economic assessment in April 2015. Capitalized drilling was directed at infill drilling in the southern and deeper portions of the main Kensington resource as well as the Raven vein. In 2017, the Company expects $4.1 million in exploration expense and $2.9 million of conversion drilling for additional expansion at Jualin and South Kensington.
USA - Wharf
Conversion drilling of $1.0 million completed 30,530 feet (9,306 meters) of drilling primarily within the Portland Main resource. In 2017, the Company expects exploration expense of $0.2 million and $1.0 million of conversion drilling focused in the Portland Main and Portland Ridge layback areas.
USA - Rochester
Exploration expense was $0.8 million and capitalized drilling was $2.7 million. Exploration expense consisted of 16,220 feet (4,944 meters) testing areas east of the southeast of Packard Pit and the new East Rochester resource while conversion drilling consisted of 77,415 feet (23,596 meters) mainly within the main Rochester Pit resource. In 2017, the Company expects $1.2 million of exploration expense to drill testing several targets around Rochester and $1.5 million in conversion drilling to continue to infill and grow the South Rochester, North Rochester and East Rochester resources.
Bolivia - San Bartolomé
In 2016, the Company spent $0.5 million in 2016 for geophysics work, trenching and sampling to refine the reserve model. In 2017, the Company expects to spend $0.3 million for continued work on the reserve model.
EARLY-STAGE EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
The Company spent $2.9 million completing target analysis and regional exploration with a focus on projects in Nevada, USA and Chihuahua, Mexico. A total of 8,821 feet (2,689 meters) of drilling was completed on two projects in Nevada, Quito and Klondyke projects; and, a total of 3,255 feet (992 meters) were drilled in Mexico at Todos Los Santos Project. The Company entered an exploration and option agreements for the Mineral Hill project in Wyoming as well as two new lease/option agreements near Tonopah, Nevada. The Company expects to spend $5.3 million in 2017 focused on surface sampling and mapping of all the projects in preparation for an expanded drilling program in 2018.
ADVANCED-STAGE EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
Mexico - La Preciosa Project
The La Preciosa project is located approximately 52 miles (84 kilometers) northeast of the city of Durango in Durango State, Mexico. The veins at the La Preciosa project have been classified as low- to intermediate-sulfidation type. Two major vein and vein breccia systems are exposed on hills and ridges on either side of an approximately 800 meter wide valley, including the Martha, Abundancia, Gloria, Pica, Luz Elena, Sur, and Nueva veins.
In 2016, the Company produced a new geologic model and subsequently completed 1,978 feet (603 meters) of conversion drilling. Drilling began again in January, and the Company expects to complete $3.8 million of exploration, primarily for conversion drilling in 2017.
Argentina - Joaquin Project
The Joaquin silver-gold exploration project is located in the Santa Cruz province of southern Argentina, The property is accessed by all-weather dirt roads, leading north-northeast from the town of Gobernador Gregores. The Joaquin property encompasses over 55,502 acres (22,461 hectares) of cateos and MDs. The geology of the Joaquin property consists dominantly of various volcanic rocks of the Jurassic-aged Chon Aike Formation, the host to most of the precious metal deposits discovered to date in the Santa Cruz province, with lesser amounts of intrusive rocks associated with the Chon Aike Formation. Collectively, the volcanic and intrusive rock units form a prominent geologic domain in the province termed the Deseado Massif. Silver and gold mineralization at Joaquin occurs in epithermal veins, breccia, stockwork veinlets and mantos within the favorable units of the Chon Aike Formation. Occurrences of lead and zinc mineralization have also been discovered. Locally, the rocks of the Deseado Massif are covered by Tertiary-aged basalt and younger unconsolidated sediments, that post-date silver and gold mineralization. In January 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the Joaquin silver-gold exploration project for total consideration of $25.0 million. The Company will also retain a 2.0% NSR royalty on the Joaquin project. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2017, subject to customary closing conditions.
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures
PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES
(1)
Certain definitions:
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
The term “proven (measured) reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable (indicated) reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Proven and probable reserves include silver attributable to Coeur’s ownership or economic interest in the Endeavor project.
The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process. Cutoff grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, minerability of the deposit, by-products, amenability of the mineralized material to silver or gold extraction and type of milling or leaching facilities available.
(2)
Effective at December 31, 2016, except Endeavor effective July 1, 2016. Assumed metal prices for proven and probable reserves were $17.50 per ounce of silver and $1,250 per ounce of gold, except Endeavor at $1,800 per metric ton of lead, $2,200 per metric ton of zinc, and $20.00 per ounce of silver. Assumed metal prices for estimated 2015 proven and probable reserves were $17.50 per ounce of silver and $1,250 per ounce of gold.
(3)
Mineral reserve estimates, with the exception of Endeavor, were prepared by the Company's technical staff. Endeavor mineral reserve estimates were prepared by the CBH Resources Ltd. staff and reviewed by the Company’s technical staff.
(4)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grades for mineral reserves range from 0.52 to 0.58 g/tonne AuEq. AuEq factor based on [($Price Au) / ($Price Ag)] x [(%Recovery Au)/(%Recovery Ag)] x [(%Payable Au)/(%Payable Ag)].
(5)
The cutoff grade for mineral reserves is 2.6 to 3.2 oz/ton AgEq.
(6)
The cutoff grades for mineral reserves range from 81 to 107 g/tonne Ag based on material.
(7)
Effective at July 1, 2016, thus excluding additions or depletions through December 31, 2016. Mineral reserves were estimated with a cutoff grade of 7.0% combined lead and zinc.
(8)
The cutoff grade for mineral reserves is 0.13 oz/ton Au.
(9)
The cutoff grade for mineral reserves is 0.012 oz/ton Au.
MINERALIZED MATERIAL
(1)
Assumed metal prices for estimated 2016 mineralized material were $19.00 per ounce of silver and $1,275 per ounce of gold, except (a) Endeavor at $2,200 per tonne zinc, $1,800 per tonne lead and $20.00 per ounce of silver. 2016 mineralized material effective December 31, 2016, except where otherwise noted. Assumed metal prices for estimated 2015 mineralized material were $19.00 per ounce of silver and $1,275 per ounce of gold.
(2)
Estimated with mining cost parameters and initial metallurgical test results.
(3)
Estimates were prepared by a number of different consulting groups and supervised by the Company's personnel.
(4)
Estimated using 3-dimensional geologic modeling and geostatistical evaluation of the exploration drill data. Mineralized material is reported exclusive of reserves. “Mineralized material” as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, although permissible under Guide 7, does not indicate “reserves” by SEC standards. There is no certainty that any part of the reported mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into Guide 7 compliant “reserves”.
(5)
Calculated based on cutoff assuming the metal prices noted above. The cutoff grades for mineralized material range from 2.6 to 3.2 g/tonne AuEq. AuEq factor based on [($Price Au) / ($Price Ag)] x [(%Recovery Au)/(%Recovery Ag)] x [(%Payable Au)/(%Payable Ag)]
(6)
Cutoff grades for mineralized material is 95 g/tonne.
(7)
The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 0.13 oz/ton Au.
(8)
The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 0.012 oz/ton Au.
(9)
The cutoff grade for mineralized material is 0.49 oz/ton AgEq.
(10)
Effective July 1, 2016. Prepared by CBH Resources Ltd. staff and reviewed by the Company’s technical staff.
(11)
No changes were made to cutoff grades in 2016 for the La Preciosa project.
(12)
No changes were made to cutoff grades in 2016 for the Joaquin project.
(13)
No changes were made to cutoff grades in 2016 for the Lejano project.
(14)
In May 2016, Coeur sold its Martha assets and related liabilities in Argentina.
Item 3.