Item 2. Properties.
SILVER AND GOLD MINING OPERATIONS
North America
Rochester Mine
The Rochester Mine is a silver and gold surface mine located in Pershing County, Nevada, which is located approximately 25 road miles northeast of Lovelock. The mine commenced operations in 1986. The Company owns 100% of the Rochester Mine by virtue of its 100% ownership of its subsidiary, Coeur Rochester, Inc. (“Coeur Rochester”). The property consists of 22 patented and 580 unpatented contiguous mining claims and 54 mill-site claims totaling approximately 11,000 acres.
Production at Rochester in 2004 was approximately 5.7 million ounces of silver and 69,456 ounces of gold, compared to 5.6 million ounces of silver and 52,363 ounces of gold in 2003. Cash costs per ounce of silver decreased by 16% to $3.93 per ounce in 2004, compared to $4.67 per ounce in 2003.
During 2003, we relocated and upgraded our existing crushing facility to access a portion of the reserves contained underneath the existing crusher and to expand our leach pad at a cost of approximately $11.3 million. As a result, during 2003, production was lower and per ounce operating costs were higher than historically experienced. We completed the crusher relocation project during the fourth quarter of 2003 and commenced loading higher-grade ores on the leach pad.
The mine utilizes the heap leaching process to extract both silver and gold from ore mined using conventional open pit methods. Approximately 52,925 tons of ore and waste per day were mined in 2004, compared to 50,075 tons per day in 2003. The average ore to waste strip ratio for the remaining life of the mine will vary based primarily on future gold and silver prices; however, it is anticipated to be less than 1:1.
Ore is crushed and transported by conveyor to a loadout facility where it is transferred to 150 ton trucks which transport the crushed ore to leach pads where solution is applied via drip irrigation to dissolve the silver and gold contained in the ore. Certain low-grade ores are hauled directly, as run-of-mine, by 100 ton haul trucks to leach pads where solution is applied to dissolve the silver and gold contained in the ore. The solutions containing the dissolved silver and gold are pumped to a processing plant where zinc precipitation is used to recover the silver and gold from solution.
Based upon actual operating experience and certain metallurgical testing, the Company estimates ultimate recovery rates of between 59% and 61.5% for silver, depending on the ore being leached, and 93% for gold on crushed ore. The leach cycle at the Rochester Mine requires leaching to the year 2011 for all recoverable metal to be recovered. However, a significant proportion of metal recovery occurs in the early years.
At the Nevada Packard satellite deposit, located south of the Rochester deposit, the Company commenced mining of this silver deposit in the first quarter of 2003.
The Company’s capital expenditures at the Rochester Mine totaled approximately $3.5 million in 2004. During 2003, the Company relocated and upgraded its existing crushing facility, at a capital cost of $9.2 million, in order to access a portion of the reserves contained underneath the existing crusher. The Company plans capital expenditures at the Rochester Mine of $1.4 million in 2005.
Asarco Incorporated (“Asarco”), the prior lessee, had a net smelter royalty interest which is payable only when the market price of silver equals or exceeds $19.92 per ounce up to maximum rate of 5%. No royalties were required to be paid by the Company during the three years ended December 31, 2004.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves(1) - Rochester Mine
(includes Nevada Packard)
Year-end Mineralized Material
Operating Data
(1) Metal prices used were $6.00 per ounce of silver and $390 per ounce of gold in 2004.
(2) Total cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
Coeur Silver Valley
The Coeur d’Alene Mining District of Idaho is one of the richest silver mining districts in the world. Coeur Silver Valley is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company which owns and operates the Galena underground silver mine, an operating mine, and the Coeur and Caladay properties, that adjoin to the Galena mine, located in the heart of the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. Coeur Silver Valley’s property consists of 6,131 acres of Company-owned fee land, patented mining claims and unpatented claims in addition to 4,800 acres of leased claims. Silver Valley recommenced operations at the Coeur mine in June 1996 and continued mining existing reserves there through July 2, 1998 when known reserves were depleted. Silver Valley resumed production at the Galena Mine in May 1997 and operations continue. We believe that there are significant opportunities in the exploration of Silver Valley and the surrounding area, in addition to site expansion and consolidation. During the second half of 2003, we commenced a three-year optimization plan designed to locate, develop and mine additional resources believed to exist on the property which, if successful, could result in an annual production level of approximately seven million ounces of silver.
Silver Valley plans to continue exploration and development activities at the Galena, Coeur and Caladay Mines as well as at several contiguous properties in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District with a view toward the development of new silver reserves. During 2004, we spent $1.6 million for exploration activities at the Galena mine. Initially, we selected seven exploration targets for testing and added four additional targets in the year. At mid-year we announced the discovery of new mineralization at the 4000 Level of the Polaris Fault and the 2400 Upper Country Silver Vein. In the third quarter, we commenced definition drilling at the 4300 to 4600 Silver vein target. In the third quarter of 2004 our initial drilling on the Deep Coeur target intersected an extension of the 483 vein in five of eight holes with thin, high-grade silver (0.9 feet at 51.3 ounces of silver per ton) intersected in one hole. In addition, based on our analysis of the existing Galena mine underground workings and drilling results on the Galena mine property, we believe that geologic conditions similar to those at the Galena mine may extend into the adjacent Caladay property providing future exploration opportunities. During 2004, drilling at the Galena mine succeeded in identifying approximately 3.4 million new ounces of reserves and mineralized material. Overall, reserves decreased at Galena due to mining depletion, higher operating costs and external smelter and refinery costs which resulted in an overall increase in the ore reserve cutoff grade.
Galena Mine
The Galena Mine property is located immediately west of the City of Wallace in Shoshone County in northern Idaho. The property consists of 52 patented mining claims and 25 unpatented mining claims totaling approximately 1,100 acres.
The Galena Mine is an underground silver-copper mine and is served by two vertical shafts. The No. 3 shaft is the primary production shaft and is 5,800 feet deep. The Galena shaft primarily provides utility access for water, electrical power and sand backfill for underground operations down to the 2,400 level.
The mine utilizes conventional and mechanized cut and fill mining methods with sand backfill to extract ore from the high grade silver-copper vein deposits that constitute the majority of the ore reserves. Silver and copper are recovered by a flotation mill that produces a silver rich concentrate which is sold to third-party smelters in Canada. Silver recovery through the mill averaged 97% in 2004 and 96% in 2003.
Waste material from the milling process is deposited in a tailings pond located approximately two miles from the minesite. The tailings containment pond, which is expanded on an as needed basis, has capacity for approximately eight additional years at current production rates.
Silver production at the Galena Mine in 2004 was approximately 3.5 million ounces of silver compared to 3.7 million ounces in 2003. During 2004, silver production was adversely affected by lower production grades in the third and fourth quarters as mining operations adjusted to changing geological ground conditions in the more productive mining areas.
Total cash costs for 2004 increased to $5.46 per ounce compared to $4.66 per ounce in 2003. The higher cash costs are the result of lower-grade ore and the conversion to higher-cost mining methods needed to accommodate ground conditions in certain mining areas during 2004. Also contributing to the higher costs were increased development and mine repair in connection with the ongoing optimization plan.
Total capital expenditures by Silver Valley at the Galena Mine in 2004 were $2.2 million and the Company plans for capital expenditures of approximately $3.8 million for the Galena Mine during 2005.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves -- Galena Mine (1)
Year-end Mineralized Material (2)
Operating Data (Coeur's interest)
(1) The Galena Mine reserve estimate is based on a minimum mining width of 4 to 4.5 feet diluted to 5.0 feet minimum width for most silver-copper and silver-lead veins. Metal prices used in 2004 were $6.00/ounce of silver, $390/ounce of gold, $0.92/pound of copper, and $0.27/pound of lead.
(2) Mineralized material includes both the Galena and Coeur mines.
(3) Total cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
Coeur Mine
The Coeur Mine is an underground silver mine located adjacent to the Galena Mine in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in Idaho, and consists of approximately 868 acres comprised of 38 patented mining claims and four unpatented mining claims.
The Coeur Mine operated until mid-1998 when the property was placed on care and maintenance. While there was no mining activity at the Coeur mine in 2004, the Company believes that significant potential exists to discover additional high grade silver veins beneath the current limit of the underground workings. In addition, the Coeur Mine is connected to the Galena Mine, thus any future discoveries at either mine could be efficiently developed and processed at either facility. This connection is currently being utilized to provide ventilation and secondary access to the Galena Mine.
Caladay Property
The Caladay property adjoins the Galena Mine. Prior to its acquisition by the Company in 1991, approximately $32.5 million was expended on the property to construct surface facilities, a 5,101 ft. deep shaft and associated underground workings to explore the property. Based on Silver Valley’s analysis of existing Galena Mine underground workings and drilling results on the Galena Property, the Company now knows that similar geologic conditions which exist at the Galena mine extend into the Caladay property below the level of the current Caladay workings. In addition, the Caladay facilities are used to benefit the Galena Mine operations, by providing additional ventilation.
During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company performed an impairment review on the Silver Valley property and determined that its carrying amount was impaired at December 31, 2002 based on changes to its overall mine plan and a then reduced long-term silver price estimate of $5.00 per ounce. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $19.0 million as of that date.
South America
Chile - Cerro Bayo Mine
The Cerro Bayo property covers about 103 square miles and is located south of Coyhaique, the capital of Region XI in southern Chile, and approximately 17 miles west of the town of Chile Chico. The project lies on the east side of the Andes mountain range at an elevation ranging from 600 to 4,500 feet and is serviced by a gravel road from Chile Chico. The Cerro Bayo property contains multiple epithermal veins containing gold and silver. The Company has been granted exploitation concessions (the Chilean equivalent to an unpatented claim except that the owner does not have title to the surface which must be separately acquired from the surface owner) covering the mineralized areas of the property as well as the necessary surface rights to permit mining.
Construction of two ramps to intersect the high-grade Lucero Vein in the Cerro Bayo deposit commenced in November 2001 and was completed in February 2002. Additional mineralized high-grade gold and silver vein systems were discovered, referred to as the Luz Eliana, Celia, Soledad East and Andrea, in addition to a mineralized loop of the main Lucero vein. Completion of the two access ramps provided new geological information which has facilitated new vein discoveries.
The ore processing mill at the Cerro Bayo Mine uses the standard flotation process to produce a high grade gold and silver concentrate. The concentrate processed at this mill is sold to third-party smelters, primarily in Japan. The mill has a design capacity of 1,650 tons per day. During 2004, the Company experienced recovery rates of approximately 92% for gold and 94% for silver. Electrical power is generated on-site by diesel generators and process water is obtained from a combination of the adjacent General Carrera Lake and from tailings re-circulation.
During 2004, the Company continued its exploration and development program at the Cerro Bayo vein system, which is located approximately nine miles east of the processing facilities. In 2004, we spent approximately $4.1 million for exploration and completed over 250,000 feet of core drilling. Silver reserves at December 31, 2004, after giving effect to 2005 mine production, increased by 316% to 6.11 million ounces, giving effect to 2004 mine production, and gold reserves increased by 372% to 0.12 million ounces from 2003, giving effect to past production.
In 2005, we expect to spend $3.9 million for exploration at Cerro Bayo. This investment represents the second year of a three-year exploration plan designed to achieve a reserve and mineralized material level equal to at least three years of production. Developing mineable reserves beyond a three-year time horizon is not practical, nor cost effective, given the nature of our vein deposits, as is the case with other high grade mines.
Numerous epithermal veins located within the 118 square mile property package in the Cerro Bayo district offer exploration and development opportunities for us. To date, we have discovered over 100 veins, including a number of veins with strike length, width and grade greater than previously encountered in the district, the majority of which are located within nine miles of our existing ore processing facilities. We have focused our recent exploration efforts to date on those veins within the prospective Cerro Bayo trend. Of particular interest from 2004 exploration was the discovery of the Lourdes Norte and Mercedes veins covered by post-mineral gravel and of the new Celia Este and Myriam veins which are located proximal to existing veins. Discovery of covered (blind) veins will be a significant part of future exploration at Cerro Bayo.
Total capital expenditures at the Cerro Bayo property in 2004 were $2.5 million and the Company plans approximately $2.7 million of additional capital expenditures there in 2005.
Mining operations at the previously operated nearby Fachinal Mine, on the west side of the Company’s concessions, which consisted of both surface and underground mining, were discontinued in December 2000. The Company turned its focus on the development of the Cerro Bayo vein deposits, discovered approximately nine miles to the east of Fachinal. The Company changed the name of the property to the Cerro Bayo Mine in late 2001 and re-commenced production in 2002.
Argentina -Martha Mine
In April 2002, the Company acquired 145,000 acres of prospective ground including the Martha high-grade underground silver mine located in Argentina, approximately 270 miles southeast of the Cerro Bayo Mine, for $2.5 million. In June 2002, Coeur commenced shipping Martha’s high-grade ore to the Cerro Bayo Mine for processing. Since we commenced production at the Martha Mine, we have mined 64,900 tons of ore with an average grade of 74.5 silver ounces per ton on 0.1 gold ounces per ton. Like Cerro Bayo, silver and gold are hosted in multiple, epithermal veins at the Martha Mine - though Martha ore is of much higher silver grade than Cerro Bayo.
We transport ore mined at the Martha Mine by truck for processing at the Cerro Bayo mill, which is located 270 miles northwest of the Martha Mine. The transport costs to ship the ore to the Cerro Bayo mill from the Martha Mine have necessitated a focus on the highest grade portions of the veins discovered at the Martha Mine; however, lower grade mineralized material exists, but is not included in reserves.
In June 2002, we commenced shipping of high-grade Martha Mine ore to the Cerro Bayo mill. All of the production came from the Martha vein, which was one of six known veins on the Martha Mine property prior to our acquisition of the property. Also in 2002, exploration discovered both extensions of the Martha Mine vein and the R4 Zone within the vein, which is located only 300 feet southwest of the main Martha Mine mining areas. During 2004, we spent $2.3 million on exploration at the Martha Mine.
In 2004, similar to Cerro Bayo, we embarked on the first year of a three-year exploration program to extend the mine life at the Martha Mine to three years. As part of this program we added approximately 20 square miles of land to our concessions. During 2005, we expect to spend $2.7 million on exploration for the discovery of new mineralization and reserve development, across our large land holdings which exceed 530 square miles in size In 2004, we announced the discovery of two new, high-grade veins at Martha named Francisca and Catalina. Work in the coming year will focus on expanding those discoveries and exploration for additional silver and gold mineralized veins and structures. Silver reserves at December 31, 2004 increased by 290% to 3.93 million ounces from 2003. Since the acquisition of the Martha Mine, we have increased ore reserves (including production) by over 320% through focused exploration and evaluation drilling. Based on reserves and mineralized material discovered to date, the mine life at the Martha Mine has been extended to at least mid 2006.
The Martha Mine property is large, covering 225 square miles of prospective geology for silver and gold mineralization. To date, we have focused our exploration on the immediate Martha Mine area which covers just 100 acres. In addition, we own about another 305 square miles of exploration stage properties in the Santa Cruz province of southern Argentina which we identified, through our reconnaissance activities as containing good prospective geology.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves (1) - Cerro Bayo/Martha Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material (1)
Operating Data (2)
(1) Production statistics, proven and probable ore reserves and mineralized material include the Martha mine. Metal prices used were $6.00/ounce of Ag and $390/ounce of Au.
(2) Processing at Cerro Bayo commenced in April 2002 and mining operations at Martha commenced in June 2002. There are no processing facilities at the Martha Mine; therefore the ore is transported to Cerro Bayo. Due to the relationship, the Cerro Bayo and Martha production and financial statements are consolidated for reporting purposes.
(3) Total cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Total Production and Reserves” for reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to GAAP production costs.
Although the governments of Chile and Argentina have been relatively stable in recent years, the ownership of property in a foreign country may be subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization with inadequate compensation. Any foreign operation or investment may also be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation and laws or policies of particular countries as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation.
Chile - Petorca Mine
Prior to Coeur’s sale of the Petorca Mine on August 30, 2002, Coeur owned 100% of the mine which was located on approximately 34,000 acres in the western Andean foothills approximately 90 miles north of Santiago, Chile. Operations at Petorca were terminated in August 2001 and bids were solicited for the sale of Petorca. On August 30, 2002, the Company sold its interest in the Petorca Mine and reported a gain of $1.4 million.
SILVER AND GOLD DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
Bolivia - The San Bartolome Project
Coeur acquired 100% of the equity in Empressa Miner Manquiri S.A. (“Manquiri”) from Asarco on September 9, 1999. Manquiri’s principal asset is the mining rights in the San Bartolome project, a silver property located near the city of Potosí, Bolivia, on the flanks of the Cerro Rico. The San Bartolome project consists of several distinct silver-bearing gravel deposits, which are locally referred to as pallaco or sucu deposits. These deposits lend themselves to simple, free digging surface mining techniques and can be extracted without drilling and blasting. The deposits were formed as a result of erosion of the silicified silver-rich upper part of the Cerro Rico volcanic dome complex.
The mineral rights for the San Bartolome project are held through long-term lease agreements with several independent mining cooperatives and the Bolivian State Mining Company (“COMIBOL”). Manquiri controls 67 square kilometers of concessions (16,600 acres). The joint venture lease agreements are subject to a 4% production royalty payable partially to the cooperatives and partially to COMIBOL. During 2003, the Company purchased an additional property known as the Plahipo property which is adjacent to the original property package for $1.3 million. The properties are currently subject to monthly payments totaling approximately $34,700.
Of the several pallaco deposits which are controlled by Coeur and surround Cerro Rico, three are of primary importance and are known as Huacajchi, Diablo (consisting of Diablo Norte, and Diablo Este) and Santa Rita. During 2000, the Company under took an intensive field program and completed a pre-feasibility study. The field program included detailed exploration, bulk sampling, definition drilling, metallurgical studies and environmental baseline data collection. To assist with the pre-feasibility study, which was completed during 2000, Coeur retained third party engineering and geological consulting firms to examine and verify all data used in the study, including the estimate of mineralized material, process flow sheet design, site plan layout and detailed estimates of all operating and capital costs. The study incorporated a cyanide milling flow sheet with a wet pre-concentration screen circuit. In addition, the study identified a number of optimization opportunities that if successful, could significantly enhance the economic returns of the project.
We completed a preliminary feasibility study in 2000, which concluded that an open pit mine was potentially capable of producing approximately 6 million ounces of silver annually. In 2003, SRK, an independent consulting firm, was retained to review the reserve/resource estimate to include additional sampling data to incorporate additional resources acquired with the Plahipo property, which lies to the east of Cerro Rico. During the third quarter of 2003, we retained Flour Daniel Wright to prepare an updated feasibility study which was completed at the end of the third quarter of 2004. Based upon the results of this more recent feasibility study, we estimate the capital cost of the project to be approximately $135 million, the annual production to be approximately 6-8 million ounces of silver over an initial mine life of approximately 14 years, and the cash costs per ounce of silver produced to be approximately $3.50. In the second quarter of 2004, we obtained all remaining permits. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we commenced construction activities at the project.
We expect construction will take approximately twenty months, meaning that commercial production could commence in the second half of 2006.
Coeur expended approximately $5.5 million (includes approximately $1.0 million capitalized in the fourth quarter of 2004), $2.0 million and $2.6 million at the San Bartolome project in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and plans construction costs of approximately $93.1 million in 2005.
The San Bartolome project involves risks that are inherent in any mining venture, as well as particular risks associated with the location of the project. The estimate of mineralized material indicated by the geologic studies performed to date are preliminary in nature and may differ materially after further metallurgical testing is completed. Also, managing mining projects in the altiplano area of Bolivia, where Cerro Rico is located, presents logistical challenges. The political and cultural differences of a foreign country may also present challenges.
We have obtained a political risk insurance policy from the Overseas Private Insurance Corporation (“OPIC”) and another private insurer. The policy is in the amount of $155 million and covers 85% of any loss arising from expropriation, political violence or currency inconvertibility. The policy is expected to cost approximately $3.4 million during the course of construction and $0.21 per ounce of silver produced when the project commences commercial production.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves (1) - San Bartolome Project
Year-end Mineralized Material -- San Bartolome Project
(1) Metal prices used were $6.00 per ounce of silver.
Alaska -Kensington Gold Project
On July 7, 1995, Coeur, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Coeur Alaska, Inc. (“Coeur Alaska”), acquired the 50% ownership interest of Echo Bay Exploration Inc. (“Echo Bay”) in the Kensington property from Echo Bay and Echo Bay Alaska, Inc. (collectively the “Sellers”), giving Coeur 100% ownership of the Kensington property. The Kensington project consists of approximately 6,000 acres, of which approximately 750 acres are patented claims. The property is located on the east side of Lynn Canal between Juneau and Haines, Alaska. Coeur Alaska is obligated to pay Echo Bay a scaled net smelter return royalty on 1.0 million ounces of future gold production after Coeur Alaska recoups the $32.5 million purchase price and its construction and development expenditures incurred after July 7, 1995 in connection with placing the property into commercial production. The royalty ranges from 1% at $400 gold prices to a maximum of 2 1/2% at gold prices above $475, with the royalty to be capped at 1.0 million ounces of production.
In the second quarter of 2004, we completed an updated feasibility study based on an alternative operating scenario which would eliminate the need for a man camp, simplify operating logistics and focus mining on higher-grade areas of the deposit (thereby reducing significantly the size of the mill facilities). This plan significantly reduces capital and operating costs while preserving the ability to expand production as market conditions warrant. Based upon the results of the feasibility study, we estimate the capital costs of the project to be approximately $91.5 million, the annual production to be 100,000 ounces of gold over an initial mine life of ten years and the cash cost per ounce of gold produced to be approximately $220. In connection with this study, we retained Snowden Mining Industry Consultants to review and update the mineralization model and produce a new estimate of reserves and mineralized material. The property has been permitted under a previous operating plan. In connection with the updated plan, the Company prepared a Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (“FSEIS”). During the fourth quarter of 2004, a major permitting milestone was reached with the issuance of the Record of Decision (“ROD”) for the FSEIS by the U.S. Forest Service. The Forest Service ROD supports the preferred operating and development plan as set forth by the Company. The ROD is also supported by the Army Corps of Engineers, the State of Alaska and the City and Borough of Juneau. We expect to obtain all required construction permits in the first half of 2005. Upon the receipt of remaining permits, we could make a construction decision in the first half of 2005. We expect construction to take eighteen months, meaning that commercial production could commence during 2006.
On February 7, 2005, the Southeast Alaska Conservation Council and a group of other community and private environmental groups filed an appeal with the Regional Forester of the U.S. Forest Service in Juneau, Alaska seeking to set aside the ROD for the FSEIS for the Kensington Gold Project. The appellants allege numerous threats to the Berners Bay ecological, cultural and recreational value in violation of the Endangered Species Act, the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the National Forest Management Act, the Clean Water Act and other laws and agency regulations. The Company objected to the appellants’ allegations in support of the ROD for the FSEIS issued by the U.S. Forest Service. On March 23, 2005, the US Forest Service upheld the decision to approve the FSEIS.
The Kensington ore deposit consists of multiple, precious metals bearing, mesothermal, quartz, carbonate, pyrite vein swarms and discrete quartz-pyrite veins hosted in the Cretaceous age Jualin diorite. The gold-telluride-mineral calaverite is associated with the pyrite mineralization.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves(1) - Kensington Property
Year-end Mineralized Material
(1) A gold price of $375 was used to determine ore reserves.
We believe the Kensington property package has excellent exploration potential. Not all Kensington ore zones have been fully delineated at depth and several peripheral zones and veins remain to be explored. During 2005, we plan to commence an exploration program designed to convert 300,000 to 400,000 ounces of gold currently reported as mineralized material to reserves, with potential to increase total gold production and to identify higher grade sections of the deposit that might be mined in the earlier years of the operation. The program is expected to cost approximately $2.6 million. In addition, the Company possesses the right to develop the Jualin property, an exploratory property located adjacent to the Kensington Property. A budget of $0.7 million is allocated for 2005 at Jualin which consists of approximately 9,400 acres, of which approximately 345 acres are patented claims. The Company’s rights to develop the Jualin property are subject to an agreement which must be renewed in May 2007.
Total expenditures by the Company at the Kensington property in 2004 were $7.4 million. Such expenditures were used to continue the permitting and updated feasibility activities and included approximately $0.4 million on Jualin exploration. The Company plans approximately $7.0 million for currently planned project expenditures during 2005. Additional expenditures will be dependent upon the receipt of remaining permits which are expected in the first half of 2005.
Coeur continues to complete the permitting process. No assurance can be given as to whether or when the required regulatory approvals will be obtained or as to whether the Company will place the Kensington project into commercial production.
CANADIAN NATIONAL INSTRUMENT 43-101 DISCLOSURE
Coeur was listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange on January 11, 2005. As a Canadian publicly listed issuer, the Company must reconcile its reserves and mineralized material to Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (“CIM”) standard definitions.
(1) Mineral resources are exclusive of or in addition to mineral reserves. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
(2) For additional information relating to the mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates on each property (including pricing assumptions, cut-off grades and other parameters, assumptions and methods used to prepare the estimates), we refer you to its technical report which is electronically available to the public from the Canadian System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval at http://www.sedar.com.
Donald J. Birak, Coeur’s Senior Vice President of Exploration is the qualified person responsible for the preparation of the scientific and technical information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Mr. Birak has reviewed the available data and procedures and believes the calculations of mineral resources and mineral reserves were conducted in a professional and competent manner.
Classification of Mineral Reserves and Resources
Definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves and measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources are those prescribed by NI 43-101 and conform to the CIM Standards.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITY
Coeur, either directly or through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns, leases and has interests in certain exploration-stage mining properties located in the United States, Chile, Argentina, Tanzania and Bolivia. Exploration expenses of approximately $11.1 million, $4.9 million and $3.8 million were incurred by the Company in connection with exploration activities in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Puchuldiza, Chile Joint Venture Property
On November 28, 2001, the Company signed an exploration agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation (Barrick) relating to Coeur’s Puchuldiza gold property located approximately 155 miles northeast of the port city of Iquique in northern Chile. Under the terms of the agreement, Barrick can earn a 75% interest in the property for exploration expenditures of $2.3 million over the next five years. For an additional $5.8 million in exploration spending, Barrick can increase its property interest to 85%. Coeur, however, can recover its full 25% interest by making a cash payment to Barrick equivalent to 25% of Barrick’s additional expenditure of $5.8 million, plus a 50% penalty.
Puchuldiza is a large, epithermal, hot spring deposit in a setting very similar to other gold deposits in the USA, New Zealand and Japan. Gold mineralization can be found throughout the property in systems of veins, veinlets and stockworks developed in explosion breccias and silicified zones. Coeur believes that there is considerable potential to expand the current near-surface mineralization.
During 2004, Barrick spent approximately $0.65 million on geologic mapping, geochemical and geophysical surveys and drilling on the Puchuldiza property which brings their cumulative expenditure to $1.91 million. Barrick drilled 10 core holes in 2004 for a total of 2,123 meters (6,965 feet).
Cerro Bayo Mine, Chile
Coeur continued to have exploration success at its 100%-owned Cerro Bayo gold/silver mining operation in southern Chile. Approximately $4.1 million was spent in exploration during 2004. A total of 250,000 feet of drilling was completed primarily during the second half of the year. The goal was to discover new reserves and mineralized material immediately north and south of the Cerro Bayo mine.
New reserves and mineralized material were successfully discovered in several veins. At December 31, 2004, Cerro Bayo reserves were 0.862 million tons at a grade of 7.09 silver ounces per ton for a total 6.11 million ounces of silver and a grade of 0.134 gold ounces per ton for a total of 115.900 gold ounces. Mineralized material at Cerro Bayo totaled 3.829 million tons at an average grade of 4.29 ounce per ton for silver and 0.082 for gold.
The exploration potential to discover additional high grade veins within the entire Cerro Bayo trend, which is 2.5 miles east-west by 6 miles north-south, is considered to be excellent. The exploration budget for 2005 is slated for $3.9 million.
Martha Mine, Argentina
Coeur had encouraging exploration results at its 100%-owned high-grade silver Martha Mine area located in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. The underground mine is approximately 270 miles southeast of Coeur’s Cerro Bayo property located in Southern Chile. Coeur acquired the Martha Mine in April 2002 and began transporting high-grade ore from the Martha mine to its Cerro Bayo mill in June 2002. In addition 145,000 acres of exploration stage properties in Santa Cruz Province were also acquired.
Coeur continued a mine development and exploration program during 2004 and focused primarily on areas around the 100 acre Martha mine property. The Martha vein, which is exposed for over one mile, is one of six presently known veins that have had very limited exploration prior to Coeur’s acquisition of the property. Coeur’s efforts consisted of mapping, sampling and drilling for a total expenditure of $2.5 million.
The 2004 program was successful in discovering extensions of high grade ore along the strike of the Martha vein within the mine itself as well as locating several new high-grade ore shoots, including the Francisca and Catalina veins, at the “R4 Zone”.
During 2004, exploration results on the R4 Zone, and the Del Medio and Del Medio Norte veins extended the Martha mine life through the middle of 2006. At December 31, 2004, reserves at the Martha mine total 57,000 tons averaging 0.085 ounces of gold per ton and 68.56 ounces of silver per ton for a total of 4,600 ounces of gold and 3.9 million ounces of silver. Mineralized material totaled 74,000 tons at an average grade of 52.75 ounces of silver per ton and 0.058 ounces of gold per ton. An ongoing drill program during 2005 is planned to expand the high-grade mineralization discovered in 2004 and to explore for additional high-grade veins.
Coeur has also initiated ground reconnaissance on its large land package in Santa Cruz Province surrounding the Martha mine as well as 90 miles to the north surrounding its Lejano property. Numerous new epithermal veins were discovered that contain high grade gold and silver mineralization on the surface. The Company plans to continue to map, sample and drill many of these veins during 2005.
Tanzania, Africa
During the first quarter of 2004, the Company acquired ten prospecting licenses for properties located in the Victoria Gold Belt of Tanzania, Africa. The prospecting licenses are valid for a period of three years and contain renewal options. During 2004, work consisted of mapping, sampling and acquisition and interpretation of geophysical and remote sensing data. As a result of this work, one of the original licenses were selected for a large soil sampling program which is expected to be completed and expanded in the first half of 2005.
During 2005, the Company plans to spend approximately $0.3 million on exploration activities which, if successful, could identify targets for drilling later in 2005.
SILVER AND GOLD PRICES
The Company’s operating results are substantially dependent upon the world market prices of silver and gold. The Company has no control over silver and gold prices, which can fluctuate widely. The volatility of such prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth the high and low prices of silver (as reported by Handy and Harman) and gold (London Final) per ounce during the periods indicated:
MARKETING
The Company markets its metals products and concentrates primarily to bullion trading banks and third party smelters. These customers then sell the metals to end users for use in industry applications such as electronic circuitry, jewelry and silverware production and the manufacture and development of photographic film. Sales of metals to bullion trading banks amounted to approximately 48%, 41% and 60% of total sales of metals in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and sales of metal concentrates to third party smelters amounted to approximately 52%, 59% and 40% of total metal sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Generally, the loss of a single bullion trading bank customer would not adversely affect the Company in view of the liquidity of the product and availability of alternative trading banks. In 2004, no third party smelter generally purchases concentrates from the Company in an amount equal to 10% or more of the Company’s total metal sales except that sales of concentrates produced by the Cerro Bayo mine, which accounted for approximately 33%, 44% and 17% of the Company’s total metal sales in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively, were sold to Dowa Mining Co., Ltd, a Japanese third party smelter, pursuant to a contract that expires on March 31, 2005, if a 12-month advance notice of termination is given by Dowa. Dowa has not given such notice, and the contract is therefore extended to March 31, 2006. Nevertheless, Dowa is urging the company, as a matter of cooperation, to sell a portion of the concentrates which Dowa is obligated to take under the contract to third parties. A significant delay or disruption in the sale of our Cero Bayo concentrates would have a materially adverse affect on our operations.
The Company has no future silver or gold production hedged at December 31, 2004 and has no plans to hedge its silver in the future. Coeur has historically sold the gold from its mines both pursuant to forward contracts and at spot prices prevailing at the time of sale. Silver has been sold at spot prices prevailing at the time of sale. Entering into forward sale contracts is a strategy which can be used to enhance revenues and/or mitigate some of the risks associated with fluctuating precious metals prices. For further details of the Company’s gold sales program please refer to Note N - Derivative Financial Instruments and Fair Value Financial Instruments of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Accompanying Notes.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
General
The Company’s commitment to environmental responsibility has been recognized in 23 awards received since 1987, which included the Dupont/Conoco Environmental Leadership Award, awarded to the Company on October 1, 1991 by a judging panel that included representatives from environmental organizations and the federal government, the “Star” award granted on June 23, 1993 by the National Environmental Development Association, and the Environmental Waikato Regional Council award for Golden Cross environmental initiative granted on May 15, 1995 and in March 2004 the Habitat Restoration Award from the Nevada Division of Wildlife for developing habitat at the Rochester mine. In 1994, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and in 1997, the Company’s Vice President of Environmental and Governmental Affairs, were awarded the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers’ Environmental Conservation Distinguished Service Award.
The Company’s activities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws governing the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Although the Company is usually involved in regulatory proceedings for renewal or reissue of various permits, such regulations have never caused the Company to close any mine. The costs associated with compliance with such regulatory requirements are substantial and possible future legislation and regulations could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the development of the Company’s properties, the extent of which cannot be predicted. In the context of environmental permitting, including the approval of reclamation plans, the Company must comply with known standards and regulations which may entail significant costs and delays. Although Coeur has been recognized for its commitment to environmental responsibility and believes it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, amendments to current laws and regulations, the more stringent implementation thereof through judicial review or administrative action or the adoption of new laws could have a materially adverse effect upon the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company expended $4.4 million, $4.5 million and $5.3 million, respectively, in connection with routine environmental compliance activities at its operating properties and expects to expend approximately $6.8 million for that purpose in 2005. Future environmental expenditures will be determined by governmental regulations and the overall scope of the Company’s operating and development activities.
Federal Environmental Laws
Mining wastes are currently exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) regulations governing hazardous waste, although such wastes may be subject to regulation under state law as a solid or hazardous waste. The EPA plans to develop a program to regulate mining waste pursuant to its solid waste management authority under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). Certain processing and other wastes are currently regulated as hazardous wastes by the EPA under RCRA. The EPA is studying how mine wastes from extraction and beneficiation should be managed and regulated. If the Company’s mine wastes were treated as hazardous waste or such wastes resulted in operations being designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) for cleanup, material expenditures would be required for the construction of additional waste disposal facilities or for other remediation expenditures. Under CERCLA, any present owner or operator of a Superfund site or an owner or operator at the time of its contamination generally may be held liable and may be forced to undertake remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Additional regulations or requirements may also be imposed upon the Company’s tailings and waste disposal in Idaho and Alaska under the Federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and state law counterparts, and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Air emissions are subject to controls under Nevada’s, Idaho’s and Alaska’s air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act.
Proposed Mining Legislation
Legislation has been introduced, on several occasions, in the U.S. Congress to change the Mining Act under which the Company holds mining claims on public lands. It is possible that the Mining Act will be amended or be replaced by more onerous legislation in the future. The introduced legislation contains new environmental standards and conditions, additional reclamation requirements and extensive new procedural steps which would be likely to result in delays in permitting. The Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management are considering revising regulations governing operations under the Mining Act on public lands they administer, which may result in additional procedures and environmental conditions and standards on those lands.
During the last several Congressional sessions, bills have been introduced which would supplant or materially alter the Mining Act. If enacted, such legislation may materially impair the ability of the Company to develop or continue operations which derive ore from federal lands. No such bills have been passed and the extent of the changes, if any, which may be enacted by Congress is not presently known. A significant portion of Coeur’s U.S. mining properties are on public lands. Any reform of the Mining Act or Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service regulations thereunder based on these initiatives could increase the costs of mining activities on unpatented mining claims, and as a result could have an adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. Until such time, if any, as new reform legislation or regulations are enacted, the ultimate effects and costs of compliance on the Company cannot be estimated.
Foreign Government Regulations
The mining properties of the Company that are located in Chile and Argentina are subject to various government laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the air, surface water, ground water and the environment in general, as well as the health of the work force, labor standards and the socioeconomic impacts of mining facilities upon the communities. A recently established State Council for the Environment (CODEMA) has responsibility to define policy, approve plans and programs, control regulatory activities and enforce compliance. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations to which it is subject in Chile and Argentina.
The Republic of Bolivia, where the San Bartolome project is located, has adopted laws and guidelines for environmental permitting that are similar to those in effect in the United States and other South American countries. The permitting process requires a thorough study to determine the baseline condition of the mining site and surrounding area, an environmental impact analysis, and proposed mitigation measures to minimize and offset the environmental impact of mining operations. The Company has received all permits required to build and operate the San Bartolome mine.
Maintenance of Claims
At mining properties in the United States, including the Rochester, Kensington, Coeur, Galena and Caladay mines, operations are conducted in part upon unpatented mining claims, as well as patented mining claims. Pursuant to applicable federal law it is necessary, in order to maintain the unpatented claims, to pay to the Secretary of the Interior, on or before August 31 of each year, a claim maintenance fee of $100 per claim. This claim maintenance fee is in lieu of the assessment work requirement contained in the Mining Law of 1872. In addition, in Nevada, holders of unpatented mining claims are required to pay the county recorder of the county in which the claim is situated an annual fee of $3.50 per claim. No maintenance fees are payable for patented claims. Patented claims are similar to land held by an owner who is entitled to the entire interest in the property with unconditional power of disposition.
In Chile, operations are conducted upon mineral concessions granted by the national government. For exploitation concessions (somewhat similar to a U.S. patented claim), to maintain the concession, an annual tax is payable to the government before March 31 of each year in the approximate amount of $1.14 per hectare. For exploration concessions, to maintain the right, the annual tax is approximately $.30 per hectare. An exploration concession is valid for a five-year period. It may be renewed for new periods unless a third party claims the right to explore upon the property, in which event the exploration concession must be converted to an exploitation concession in order to maintain the rights to the concession.
Minerals are owned by the Argentine government, which allows individual provinces to impose a maximum 3% mine-mouth royalty on mineral production. The first step in acquiring mining rights is filing a cateo, which gives exclusive prospecting rights for the requested area for a period of time, generally up to 3 years. Maximum size of each cateo is 10,000 hectares; a maximum of 20 cateos can be held by a single entity (individual or company) in any one province.
The holder of a cateo has exclusive right to establish a Manifestation of Discovery (MD) on that cateo, but MD’s can also be set without a cateo on any land not covered by someone else’s cateo. MD’s are filed as either a vein or disseminated discovery. A square protection zone can be declared around the discovery - up to 840 hectares for vein MD or up to 7,000 hectares for a disseminated MD. The protection zone grants the discoverer exclusive rights for an indefinite period, during which the discoverer must provide an annual report presenting a program of exploration work and investments related to the protection zone. An MD can later be upgraded to a Mina (mining claim), which give the holder the right to begin commercial extraction of minerals.
EMPLOYEES
The number of full-time employees at December 31, 2004 of Coeur d’Alene Mines Corporation and its subsidiaries was:
(1) The Company maintains a labor agreement with the United Steelworkers of America at its Coeur Silver Valley mine. The agreement is effective from March 26, 2003 to March 1, 2006. The Company also maintains a labor agreement with Syndicate De Trabayadores De Compania Minera Cerro Bayo LTA at its Cerro Bayo Chile mine. The agreement is effective from December 22, 2003 to December 21, 2005. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately 42% of its labor force covered by collective bargaining.
RISK FACTORS
The following information sets forth information relating to important risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. References to “we,” “our” and “us” in these risk factors refer to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
Risks Relating to our Business
We have incurred losses in the last five years due to several factors, including historically low gold and silver market prices, and may continue to incur losses in the future.
We have incurred net losses in the last five years, and have had losses from continuing operations in each of those periods. Factors that significantly contributed to our losses are:
• until recently, historically low gold and silver market prices;
• our deliberate pursuit of a growth policy prior to 2003 calling for the acquisition of mining properties and companies and financing such growth principally by incurring convertible indebtedness which had a high coupon rate, thereby increasing our interest expense to $17.0 million in 2000, $14.6 million in 2001, $21.9 million in 2002, $12.9 million in 2003 and $2.8 million in 2004;
• write-offs for impaired assets and other holding costs in 2000 ($12.2 million), 2001 ($6.1 million), and 2002 ($19.0 million); and
• losses on the early retirement of debt of $19.1 million in 2002, and $41.6 million in 2003.
If silver and gold prices decline and we are unable to reduce our production costs, our losses may continue. If lower silver and gold prices make mining at our properties uneconomical, we may be required to recognize additional impairment write-downs, which would increase our operating losses and negatively impact our results of operations.
We may be required to incur additional indebtedness to fund our capital expenditures.
We have historically financed our operations through the issuance of common stock and convertible debt, and may be required to incur additional indebtedness in the future. During 2004, we commenced construction at the San Bartolome project and we anticipate that we could reach a final decision to develop the Kensington project in 2005. Construction of both projects would require a total capital investment of approximately $226.5 million. While we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments combined with cash flow generated from operations will be sufficient for us to make this level of capital investment, no assurance can be given that additional capital investments will not be required to be made at these or other projects. If we are unable to generate enough cash to finance such additional capital expenditures through operating cash flow and the issuance of common stock, we may be required to issue additional indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness would increase our debt payment obligations, and may negatively impact our results of operations.
We have not had sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in recent years and presently expect that situation to continue.
As a result of our net losses, our earnings have not been adequate to satisfy fixed charges (i.e., interest, preferred stock dividends and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest) in each of the last five years. The amounts by which earnings were inadequate to cover fixed charges were approximately, $47.5 million in 2000, $3.1 million in 2001, $80.8 million in 2002, $63.9 million in 2003, and $22.7 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2004, we are required to make fixed payments on $180 million principal amount of our 1¼% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024, requiring annual interest payments of approximately $2.25 million until their maturity.
We expect to satisfy our fixed charges and other expense obligations in the future from cash flow from operations and, if cash flow from operations is insufficient, from working capital, which amounted to approximately $350 million at December 31, 2004. In the last five years, we have been experiencing negative cash flow from operating activities. The amount of net cash used in our operating activities amounted to approximately $23.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, $29.9 million in 2001, $8.5 million in 2002, $5.1 million in 2003 and $18.6 in 2004. The availability of future cash flow from operations or working capital to fund the payment of interest on the notes and other fixed charges will be dependent upon numerous factors, including our results of operations, silver and gold prices, levels and costs of production at our mining properties and the amount of our capital expenditures and expenditures for acquisitions, developmental and exploratory activities.
The market prices of silver and gold are volatile. If we experience low silver and gold prices it may result in decreased revenues and increased losses, and may negatively affect our business.
Silver and gold are commodities. Their prices fluctuate, and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. Because we currently derive approximately 65% of our revenues from sales of silver, our earnings are primarily related to the price of this metal.
The market price of silver (Handy & Harman) and gold (London Final) on March 15, 2005 was $7.40 and $441 per ounce, respectively. The price of silver and gold may decline in the future. Factors that are generally understood to contribute to a decline in the price of silver include sales by private and government holders, and a general global economic slowdown.
If the prices of silver and gold are depressed for a sustained period, our net losses will continue, we may be forced to suspend mining at one or more of our properties until the price increases, and record additional asset impairment write-downs. Any lost revenues, continued or increased net losses or additional asset impairment write-downs would affect our results of operations.
We have recorded significant write-downs of mining properties in recent years and may have to record additional write-downs, which could negatively impact our results of operations.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (SFAS 144) established accounting standards for impairment of the value of long-lived assets such as mining properties. SFAS 144 requires a company to review the recoverability of the cost of its assets by estimating the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment must be recognized when the carrying value of the asset exceeds these cash flows, and recognizing impairment write-downs has negatively impacted our results of operations in recent years.
If silver or gold prices decline or we fail to control production costs or realize the mineable ore reserves at our mining properties, we may recognize further asset write-downs. We also may record other types of additional mining property write-downs in the future to the extent a property is sold by us for a price less than the carrying value of the property, or if liability reserves have to be created in connection with the closure and reclamation of a property. Additional write-downs of mining properties could negatively impact our results of operations.
The estimation of ore reserves is imprecise and depends upon subjective factors. Estimated ore reserves may not be realized in actual production. Our operating results may be negatively affected by inaccurate estimates.
The ore reserve figures presented in our public filings are estimates made by our technical personnel. Reserve estimates are a function of geological and engineering analyses that require us to make assumptions about production costs and silver and gold market prices. Reserve estimation is an imprecise and subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation, judgment and experience. Assumptions about silver and gold market prices are subject to great uncertainty as those prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market prices of silver or gold may render reserves containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and we may be required to reduce reserve estimates, discontinue development or mining at one or more of our properties, or write down assets as impaired. Should we encounter mineralization or geologic formations at any of our mines or projects different from those we predicted, we may adjust our reserve estimates and alter our mining plans. Either of these alternatives may adversely affect our actual production and operating results.
We based our ore reserve determinations as of December 31, 2004 on a long-term silver price average of $6.00 per ounce and a long-term gold price average of $390 per ounce. On March 15, 2005 silver and gold prices were $7.40 per ounce and $441 per ounce, respectively.
The estimation of the ultimate recovery of metals contained within the heap leach pad inventory is inherently inaccurate and subjective and requires the use of estimation techniques. Actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations.
The Rochester mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract silver and gold from ore. The heap leach process is a process of extracting silver and gold by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained silver and gold, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes.
The key stages in the conversion of ore into silver and gold are (i) the blasting process in which the ore is broken into large pieces; (ii) the processing of the ore through a crushing facility that breaks it into smaller pieces; (iii) the transportation of the crushed ore to the leach pad where the leaching solution is applied; (iv) the collection of the leach solution; (v) subjecting the leach solution to the precipitation process, in which gold and silver is converted back to a fine solid; (vi) the conversion of the precipitate into doré; and (vii) the conversion by a third party refinery of the doré into refined silver and gold bullion.
We use several integrated steps to scientifically measure the metal content of ore placed on the leach pads during the key stages. As the ore body is drilled in preparation for the blasting process, samples of the drill residue are assayed to determine estimated quantities of contained metal. We estimate the quantity of ore by utilizing global positioning satellite survey techniques. We then process the ore through a crushing facility where the output is again weighed and sampled for assaying. A metallurgical reconciliation with the data collected from the mining operation is completed with appropriate adjustments made to previous estimates. We then transport the crushed ore to the leach pad for application of the leaching solution. As the leach solution is collected from the leach pads, we continuously sample for assaying. We measure the quantity of leach solution with flow meters throughout the leaching and precipitation process. After precipitation, the product is converted to doré, which is the final product produced by the mine. We again weigh, sample and assay the doré. Finally, a third party smelter converts the doré are able to determine final ounces of silver and gold available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate.
Our reported inventories include metals estimated to be contained in the ore on the leach pads of $43.8 million as of December 31, 2004. Of this amount, $15.0 million is reported as a current asset and $28.8 million is reported as a noncurrent asset. The distinction between current and noncurrent is based upon the expected length of time necessary for the leaching process to remove the metals from the crushed ore. The historical cost of the metal that is expected to be extracted within twelve months is classified as current and the historical cost of metals contained within the crushed ore that will be extracted beyond twelve months is classified as noncurrent.
The estimate of both the ultimate recovery expected over time, and the quantity of metal that may be extracted relative to such twelve month period, requires the use of estimates which are inherently inaccurate since they rely upon laboratory test work. Test work consists of 60 day leach columns from which we project metal recoveries into the future. The quantities of metal contained in the ore are based upon actual weights and assay analysis. The rate at which the leach process extracts gold and silver from the crushed ore is based upon laboratory column tests and actual experience occurring over approximately eighteen years of leach pad operation at the Rochester mine. The assumptions we use to measure metal content during each stage of the inventory conversion process includes estimated recovery rates based on laboratory testing and assaying. We periodically review our estimates compared to actual experience and revise our estimates when appropriate. The length of time necessary to achieve our currently estimated ultimate recoveries of between 59% and 61.5%, depending on the area being leached, for silver and 93% for gold is estimated to be between 5 and 10 years. However, the ultimate recovery will not be known until leaching operations cease, which is currently estimated for 2011.
When we began leach operations in 1986, based solely on laboratory testing, we estimated the ultimate recovery of silver and gold at 50% and 80%, respectively. Since 1986, we have adjusted the expected ultimate recovery three times (once in each of 1989, 1997 and 2003) based upon actual experience gained from leach operations. In 2003, we revised our estimated recoveries for silver and gold of between 59% and 61.5%, depending on the area being leached, and 93%, respectively, which increased the estimated recoverable ounces of silver and gold contained in the heap by 1.8 million ounces and 41,000 ounces, respectively.
If our estimate of ultimate recovery requires adjustment, the impact upon our inventory valuation and upon our income statement would be as follows:
Inventories of ore on leach pads are valued based upon actual costs incurred to place such ore on the leach pad, less costs allocated to minerals recovered through the leach process. The costs consist of those production activities occurring at the mine site and include the costs, including depreciation, associated with mining, crushing and precipitation circuits. In addition, refining is provided by a third party refiner to place the metal extracted from the leach pad in a saleable form. These additional costs are considered in the valuation of inventory. Negative changes in our inventory valuations and correspondingly on our income statement would have an adverse impact on our results of operations.
Our estimates of current and non-current inventories may not be realized in actual production and operating results, which may negatively affect our business.
We use estimates, based on prior production results and experiences, to determine whether heap leach inventory will be recovered more than one year in the future, and is non-current inventory, or will be recovered within one year, and is current inventory. The estimates involve assumptions that may not prove to be consistent with our actual production and operating results. We cannot determine the amount ultimately recoverable until leaching is completed. If our estimates prove inaccurate, our operating results may be less than anticipated.
Significant investment risks and operational costs are associated with our exploration, development and mining activities, such as San Bartolome and Kensington. These risks and costs may result in lower economic returns and may adversely affect our business.
Our ability to sustain or increase our present production levels depends in part on successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, involves many risks and is frequently unproductive. If mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), metallurgical recoveries, production rates and capital and operating costs of such development projects, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance of necessary permits and receipt of adequate financing.
Development projects, such as San Bartolome and Kensington, may have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future operating costs and capital requirements. Particularly for development projects items such as estimates of reserves, metal recoveries and cash operating costs are to a large extent based upon the interpretation of geologic data obtained from a limited number of drill holes and other sampling techniques and feasibility studies. Estimates of cash operating costs are then derived based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the orebody, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore, comparable facility and equipment costs, anticipated climate conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns of any and all development projects may materially differ from the costs and returns estimated, and accordingly, our business results of operations may be negatively affected.
The Company’s marketing of metals concentrates could be adversely affected if there were to be a significant delay or disruption of purchases by its third party smelter customers. In particular, a significant delay or disruption in our sales of Cerro Bayo concentrates as a result of the expected discontinuation of purchases by the current Japanese smelter customer could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
The Company currently markets its silver and gold concentrates to third party smelters in Japan and Canada. The loss of any one smelter customer could have a material adverse effect on us in the event of the possible unavailability of alternative smelters. No assurance can be given that alternative smelters would be timely available if the need for them were to arise, or that delays or disruptions in sales could not be experienced that would result in a materially adverse effect on out operations.
Our silver and gold production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business.
Our future silver and gold production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. It is our business strategy to conduct silver and gold exploratory activities at our existing mining and exploratory properties as well as at new exploratory projects, and to acquire silver and gold mining properties and businesses that possess mineable ore reserves and are expected to become operational in the near future. We can provide no assurance that our silver and gold production in the future will not decline. Accordingly, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations.
There are significant hazards associated with our mining activities, not all of which are fully covered by insurance. To the extent we must pay the costs associated with such risks, our business may be negatively affected.
The mining business is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although we maintain insurance in an amount that we consider to be adequate, liabilities might exceed policy limits, in which event we could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operation. Insurance fully covering many environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us or to other companies in the industry. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our mining activities as described above could negatively affect our results of operations.
We are subject to significant governmental regulations, and their related costs and delays may negatively affect our business.
Our mining activities are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing environmental protection, natural resources, prospecting, development, production, post-closure reclamation, taxes, labor standards and occupational health and safety laws and regulations including mine safety, toxic substances and other matters related to our business. Although these laws and regulations have never required us to close any mine, the costs associated with compliance with such laws and regulations are substantial. Possible future laws and regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of our operations and delays in the development of our properties. Moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. Substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in our operations. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Some of our mining wastes are currently exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations governing hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). If the EPA designates these wastes as hazardous under RCRA, we would be required to expend additional amounts on the handling of such wastes and to make significant expenditures to construct hazardous waste disposal facilities. In addition, if any of these wastes causes contamination in or damage to the environment at a mining facility, such facility may be designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). Under CERCLA, any owner or operator of a Superfund site since the time of its contamination may be held liable and may be forced to undertake extensive remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Additional regulations or requirements are also imposed upon our tailings and waste disposal areas in Idaho and Alaska under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Airborne emissions are subject to controls under air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act in Nevada, Idaho and Alaska. Compliance with CERCLA, the CWA and state environmental laws could entail significant costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
In the context of environmental permits, including the approval of reclamation plans, we must comply with standards and regulations which entail significant costs and can entail significant delays. Such costs and delays could have a dramatic impact on our operations.
We are required to obtain government permits to expand operations or begin new operations. The costs and delays associated with such approvals could affect our operations, reduce our revenues, and negatively affect our business as a whole.
Mining companies are required to seek governmental permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations such as the Kensington development project. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent on many factors that are out of our control. The governmental approval process may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted, and could cause us to not proceed with the development of a mine. Accordingly, this approval process could harm our results of operations.
On February 2, 2005, the Southeast Alaska Conservation Council (“SEACC”) and a group of other community and private environmental groups filed an appeal of the U.S. Forest Service Record of Decision for the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statements for the Kensington Gold Project, alleging numerous ecological, cultural and recreational value threats posed by the project under various environmental and other laws and regulations. On March 23, 2005, the US Forest Service upheld its decision to approve the FSEIS. SEACC has also threatened to sue the U.S. Forest Service if relief is not obtained in the course of its administrative appeal. The Company is unable to predict what the outcome of a suit would be, if one is filed, or its impact upon the permitting process.
We are an international company and are exposed to risks in the countries in which we have significant operations or interests. Foreign instability or variances in foreign currencies may cause unforeseen losses, which may affect our business.
Chile, Argentina and Bolivia are the most significant foreign countries in which we directly or indirectly own or operate mining properties or developmental projects. We also conduct exploratory projects in these countries. Argentina, while currently economically and politically stable, has experienced political instability, currency value fluctuations and changes in banking regulations in recent years. Although the governments and economies of Chile and Bolivia have been relatively stable in recent years, property ownership in a foreign country is generally subject to the risk of expropriation or nationalization with inadequate compensation. Any foreign operations or investment may also be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation and laws or policies of particular countries as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade investment and taxation. We may enter into agreements which require us to purchase currencies of foreign countries in which we do business in order to ensure fixed exchange rates. In the event that actual exchange rates vary from those set forth in the hedge contracts, we will experience U.S. dollar-denominated currency gains or losses. Future economic or political instabilities or changes in the laws of foreign countries in which we have significant operations or interests and unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our foreign operations and our business as whole.
Any of our future acquisitions may result in significant risks, which may adversely affect our business.
An important element of our business strategy is the opportunistic acquisition of silver and gold mines, properties and businesses. While it is our practice to engage independent mining consultants to assist in evaluating and making acquisitions, any mining properties we may acquire may not be developed profitably or, if profitable when acquired, that profitability might not be sustained. In connection with any future acquisitions, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities, resulting in dilution of the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We intend to seek shareholder approval for any such acquisitions to the extent required by applicable law, regulations or stock exchange rules. We cannot predict the impact of future acquisitions on the price of our business or our common stock. Unprofitable acquisitions, or additional indebtedness or issuances of securities in connection with such acquisitions, may impact the price of our common stock and negatively affect our results of operations.
Our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties is uncertain. Accordingly, our prospects are uncertain for the future growth of our business.
Because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. Identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. Furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing silver and gold. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. Consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties on terms we consider acceptable. As a result, our revenues from the sale of silver and gold may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth.
Third parties may dispute our unpatented mining claims, which could result in losses affecting our business.
The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of our property holdings in the United States, is often uncertain and may be contested. Although we have attempted to acquire satisfactory title to undeveloped properties, we, in accordance with mining industry practice, do not generally obtain title opinions until a decision is made to develop a property. As a result, some titles, particularly titles to undeveloped properties, may be defective. Defective title to any of our mining claims could result in litigation, insurance claims, and potential losses affecting our business as a whole.
Item 3.