Item 2. Properties-
SILVER AND GOLD MINING PROPERTIES
The Company’s operating segments include Palmarejo (Mexico), San Bartolomé (Bolivia), Kensington (Alaska, USA), Rochester (Nevada, USA), Martha (Argentina), and Endeavor (New South Wales, Australia). See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” related to Coeur’s operations in Bolivia and Note 20 - Segment Reporting, for information relating to its business segments and its domestic and export sales.
Mexico - Palmarejo
The Palmarejo surface and underground silver and gold mine, and associated milling operation, owned and operated by Coeur Mexicana, is located in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico. Access to the property is provided by air, rail, and all-weather paved and gravel roads from the state capitol of Chihuahua.
For the full year ended 2011, Palmarejo produced 9.0 million ounces of silver and 125,071 ounces of gold, compared to 5.9 million ounces of silver and 102,440 ounces of gold in 2010. Cash operating costs per ounce and total cash costs per ounce of silver for 2011 were both $(0.97). See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.” Metal sales in 2011 from Palmarejo totaled $513.1 million, or 50% of the Company’s total metal sales, compared with $230.0 million, or 45% of the Company’s total metal sales in 2010. Sales of gold totaled $197.8 million and sales from silver were $315.3 million. Production costs in 2011 totaled $186.2 million while depreciation and depletion expense was $159.3 million. Total capital expenditures in 2011 were $37.0 million.
The Company’s property position at Palmarejo is large, consisting of contiguous mining concessions totaling 30,277 acres (12,158 hectares or 47.3 square miles) in size. Of the total concessions, 29 concessions consisting of 46.75 square miles (12,109 hectares) are owned 100% by Coeur Mexicana, formerly Planet Gold S.A. de C.V. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company), and the remaining three concessions, representing 0.19 square miles (48.77 hectares) are partially owned (50 to 60%) by Coeur Mexicana. All of the Company’s ore reserves are located on concessions owned 100% by Coeur Mexicana. All concessions owned by Coeur Mexicana are valid until at least 2029. In addition to Palmarejo, the Company also controls 21,016 acres (8,505 hectares) of concessions at the Yécora exploration-stage property located in Sonora, on the border with the state of Chihuahua, and 17,717 acres (7,170 hectares) of concessions at the La Guitarra exploration-stage property in Chihuahua, south-east of Palmarejo.
All property and equipment are in good operating condition with no major maintenance expected. Power is supplied to the property by the local power utility as well as by generators. Water is supplied to the property by pipeline from the Chinipas River and also from recycled process water collected at site.
Commercial production commenced in April 2009. Recovery of gold has been consistent with the initial metallurgical testwork and feasibility study estimates and averaged 92.2% during 2011, up from 91.1% in 2010. The recovery of silver averaged 76.4% during 2011, which was below feasibility study estimates, but up from 69.8% in 2010. Although the Company will continue pursuing adjustments to the plant to increase silver recovery rates, as of December 31, 2011, it expects silver recoveries to average 78% for 2012. We hope to achieve further improvements going forward.
The Palmarejo mine is located on the western flank of the Sierra Madre Occidental, a mountain range that comprises the central spine of northern Mexico. The north-northwest-trending Sierra Madre Occidental is composed of a relatively flat-lying sequence of Tertiary volcanic rocks that forms a volcanic plateau, cut by numerous igneous intrusive rocks. This volcanic plateau is deeply incised in the Palmarejo mine area, locally forming steep-walled canyons. The Sierra Madre Occidental gives way to the west to an extensional terrain that represents the southward continuation of the Basin and Range Province of the western United States, and then to the coastal plain of western Mexico.
The gold and silver deposits at the Palmarejo mine, typical of many of the other silver and gold deposits in the Sierra Madre, are classified as epithermal deposits and are hosted in multiple veins, breccias and fractures. These geologic structures trend generally northwest to southeast and dip either southwest or northeast. The dip on the structures ranges from about 45 degrees to 70 degrees. In the mineralized portions of the structures gold and silver are zoned from top to bottom with higher silver values occurring in the upper parts of the deposit and higher gold values in the lower parts, sometimes accompanied by base metal mineralization, though local variations are common. The Palmarejo property contains a number of mineralized zones or areas of interest. The most important of these to date is the Palmarejo zone in the north of the concessions which covers the old Palmarejo gold-silver mine formed at the intersection of the northwest-southeast trending La Prieta and La Blanca gold-and-silver bearing structures. In addition to Palmarejo, other mineralized vein and alteration
systems in the district area have been identified all roughly sub-parallel to the Palmarejo zone. The most significant of these additional targets are the Guadalupe (including Animas) and La Patria vein systems in the southern part of the property which are currently under exploration by the Company.
The Company spent $13.2 million in the Palmarejo district in 2011 to discover new silver and gold mineralization and define new ore reserves. This program consisted of drilling 263,189 feet (80,220 meters) of core. The exploration budget for Palmarejo for 2012 is $16.6 million.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Palmarejo Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - Palmarejo Mine
Operating Data
(1) Current ore reserves are effective as of December 31, 2011. Metal prices used in calculating proven and probable reserves were $23.00 per ounce of silver and $1,220 per ounce of gold.
(2) The ore reserves are underground and open pit minable and include an allowance for mining dilution and recovery. For the underground-minable reserves, the dilution and mining recovery is incorporated into the detailed design of each stope for the Palmarejo mine; a 10% dilution at a grade of 0.62 g/t Au and 54 g/t Ag and 100% mining recovery was used for the Guadalupe deposit. For the open pit-minable reserves, the mining dilution and mining recovery was incorporated into a block diluted model for the Palmarejo mine. No open pit reserves are included for the Guadalupe deposit at this time.
(3) Metallurgical recovery factors of 93% for gold and 63% to 80% for silver were used in estimations for ore reserves for Palmarejo and should be applied to the contained reserve ounces.
(4) The ore reserves were prepared by W. Orr (Manager of Corporate Technical Services) and the Company’s technical staff with the assistance of an independent consulting firm.
(5) For the Palmarejo mine the proven and probable reserves are defined as mineralized material above an economic cut-off grade demonstrating grade continuity delineated by exploration and definition drill holes with a nominal grid spacing of 15m to 45m, depending on resource area. Proven reserves is material at a distance of less than or equal to 15m from the nearest composite sample with a minimum of two drill holes used in the grade estimate. Probable reserves are defined by distance to the nearest composite sample of between 15m and 45m and a minimum of two drill holes used in the grade estimate. For the Guadalupe deposit the proven and probable reserves are defined as mineralized material above an economic cut-off grade demonstrating grade continuity delineated by at least two exploration drill holes within less than 65m of each other. Proven reserves were selected from resource areas with average drill hole spacing of 20m to less than 35m and a minimum of two drill holes used in the grade estimate. The current proven reserve blocks are at an average distance of 12m from the nearest composite sample (45 m maximum), have an average of 4 octants informed for the estimates and were informed by an average of 8 drill holes. Probable reserves were selected from resource areas with average drill hole spacing of 35m to less than 80m. Probable reserves were further defined by distance to the nearest composite sample of less than approximately 65m and a minimum of two drill holes used in the grade estimate. The current probable reserve blocks are at an average of 18m from the nearest drill hole (102 m maximum), have an average of 4 octants informed for the estimates and were informed by an average of 8 drill holes.
(6) Includes production taxes and royalties, if applicable.
(7) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
Bolivia - San Bartolomé
The San Bartolomé open pit silver mine, and associated milling operation, operated by Empresa Minera Manquiri SA (“Manquiri”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is located on the flanks of the Cerro Rico Mountain bordering the town of Potosí, Bolivia. Access to the property and the Company’s processing facilities is by paved and all-weather gravel roads leading south-southwest from Potosí.
Silver production for 2011 was 7.5 million ounces compared to 6.7 million ounces in 2010. Cash operating costs per ounce for 2011 were $9.10 per ounce compared to $7.87 per ounce in 2010. Total cash costs per ounce (which includes production taxes and royalties) for 2011 were $10.64 per ounce compared to $8.67 per ounce in 2010. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.” Metal sales in 2011 were $267.5 million, representing 26% of the Company’s total metal sales. One hundred percent of these sales were derived from silver. Production costs in 2011 totaled $79.7 million and depreciation and depletion expense was $22.4 million. Total capital expenditures in 2011 were $17.7 million.
Coeur acquired 100% of the equity in Manquiri from Asarco Incorporated (“ASARCO”) on September 9, 1999. Commercial construction activities commenced in 2004. Manquiri’s principal asset is the mining rights to the San Bartolomé mine. Silver was first discovered in the area around 1545. Mining of silver and lesser amounts of tin and base metals has been conducted nearly continuously since that time from multiple underground mines driven into Cerro Rico. The prior owner did not conduct any mining or processing of the surface ores at San Bartolomé.
The Company completed feasibility studies in 2000 and 2004, which concluded that an open pit mine was potentially capable of producing approximately six million ounces of silver annually.
The property, plant and equipment are maintained in good working condition through a regular preventative maintenance program with periodic improvements as required. Power is supplied to the property by the local power utility. Water is supplied to the property by a public water source.
The Bolivian tax rate on most mining companies is 37.5%. However, mining companies that produce a doré product, as the San Bartolomé mine does, will receive a 5% credit based upon their specific operation. Thus, the tax rate for San Bartolomé is 32.5%.
The Company obtained political risk insurance policies from the Overseas Private Insurance Corporation (“OPIC”) and another private insurer and is self-insured for $23.3 million. The combined policies are in the amount of $155.0 million and cover Coeur up to the lesser of $131.8 million or 85.0% of any loss arising from expropriation, political violence or currency inconvertibility. The policy costs were capitalized during the development and construction phases and are now included as a cost of inventory produced over the term of the policies which expire in 2019 and 2024.
The silver mineralization at San Bartolomé is hosted in unconsolidated sediments (pallacos) and reworked sediments (sucus and troceras) and oxide stockpiles and dumps (desmontes) from past mining that occurred on the flanks of Cerro Rico. Cerro Rico is a prominent mountain in the region that reaches an elevation of over 15,400 feet (over 4,700 meters). It is composed of Tertiary-aged volcanic and intrusive rocks that were emplaced into and over older sedimentary, and volcanic, basement rocks. Silver, along with tin and base metals, is located in multiple veins and vein swarms and stockworks that occur in a northeast trending belt which transects Cerro Rico. The upper parts of the Cerro Rico mineralized system were subsequently eroded and re-deposited into the flanking gravel deposits. Silver is hosted in all portions of the pallacos, sucus, and troceras with the best grades segregated to the coarser-grained silicified fragments. These deposits lend themselves to simple, free digging surface mining techniques and can be extracted without drilling and blasting. Of the several pallaco deposits which are controlled by Coeur and surround Cerro Rico, three are of primary importance and are known as Huacajchi, Diablo and Santa Rita.
The mineral rights for the San Bartolomé mine are held through joint venture and long-term lease agreements with several independent mining cooperatives and the Bolivian state-owned mining organization COMIBOL. Manquiri controls 47.93 square kilometers (11,578 acres) of land at San Bartolomé around Cerro Rico under contracts and concessions and approximately 37.45 square kilometers (8.95 acres) of concessions at the Rio Blanco property, a gold exploration target south of Potosí. The San Bartolomé lease agreements expire between 2021 and 2028 and are generally subject to a production royalty payable partially to the cooperatives and partially to COMIBOL. The royalty rate is 3% at silver prices below $4 per ounce and 6% at prices above $8 per ounce. The rate is a factor of 75% of the silver price between $4 and $8. The Company has additional mining rights known as the Plahipo project which include the mining rights to oxide dumps adjacent to the original property package. The oxide dumps included in the Plahipo project are subject to a sliding scale royalty payable to COMIBOL that is a function of silver price. The Company incurred royalty payment obligations to COMIBOL and the Cooperatives for these mining rights totaling $11.6 million and $5.4 million for the years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively.
On October 14, 2009, COMIBOL announced by resolution that it was temporarily suspending mining activities above the elevation of 4,400 meters above sea level while stability studies of Cerro Rico mountain are undertaken. The Company holds rights to mine above this elevation under valid contracts backed by Supreme Decree with COMIBOL as well as contracts with local mining cooperatives who hold their rights through COMIBOL. The Company adjusted its mine plan to confine mining activities to the ore deposits below 4,400 meters above sea level and timely notified COMIBOL of the need to lift the restriction. The Company’s mine plan was adjusted and mining continued on the remainder of the property. In March 2010, the San Bartolomé mine began mining operations above the 4,400 meter level in high grade material located in the Huacajchi deposit , which was confirmed to be excluded from the October 2009 resolution, under an agreement with the Cooperative Reserva Fiscal. In December 2011, a further area in the deposit known as Huacajchi Sur was further confirmed to be open for mining as well. Other mining areas above the 4,400 meter level continue to be suspended. Access to the Huacajchi deposit and its higher grade material is having beneficial effect on production and cost at the mine. The Company does not use explosives in its surface-only mining activities and is sensitive to the preservation of the mountain under its contracts with the state-owned mining entity and the local cooperatives.
In 2011, a new program of exploration trenching and sampling was performed at San Bartolomé. The trenches were dug to obtain samples to expand the ore reserves. This program, the first such exploration sampling since prior to commencement of production, cost an estimated $0.2 million. A similar program is planned for 2012 at an estimated cost of $0.4 million.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - San Bartolomé Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - San Bartolomé Mine
Operating Data
(1) Current ore reserves are effective as of December 31, 2011. The metal price used for current ore reserves was $23.00 per ounce of silver.
(2) Ore reserves are open pit-minable and include a mining recovery such that 15 cm buffer of ore material above the bedrock was excluded from the reserve; this equates to a mining recovery of 99.0% Metallurgical recovery factors of 77% to 86% were used in estimations for ore reserves for San Bartolomé and should be applied to the contained reserve ounces.
(3) Ore reserves were prepared by W. Orr (Manager of Corporate Technical Services) and the Company’s technical staff with the assistance of an independent consulting firm.
(4) Proven and probable ore reserves are defined by surface drill holes, trenches, and pits (pozos) with an average spacing of no more than 230 feet (70 meters). Proven reserves are those reserves in stockpile as of December 31, 2011. The grade of ore reserve block is determined by the grade of proximal drill hole and/or pit composites and three-dimensional models of geologic controls. A minimum of 8 and maximum of 20 composite were used to classify proven and probable ore reserves and variable geostatistical estimation variances. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
(5) Includes production taxes and royalties, if applicable.
(6) Costs per ounce of silver represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
USA - Alaska-Kensington Mine
The Kensington underground gold mine and associated milling facilities are located on the east side of the Lynn Canal about 45 miles north-northwest of Juneau, Alaska. The Kensington mine commenced commercial production on July 3, 2010. The mine is accessed by a horizontal tunnel and utilizes conventional and mechanized underground mining methods. Ore is processed in a flotation mill that produces a concentrate which is sold to third party smelters. Waste material is deposited in an impoundment facility on the property. Power is supplied to the site by on-site diesel generators. Access to the project is by either a combination of road vehicles, boat, helicopter, float plane, or by boat direct from Juneau.
Production during the mine’s first full year of operation in 2011 was 88,420 ounces of gold. Metal sales in 2011 at Kensington were $151.2 million, or 15% of total sales. Production costs were $101.7 million and depreciation and depletion expense was $35.8 million. The Company’s capital expenditures at the Kensington mine totaled approximately $34.0 million in 2011.
In December of 2011, Kensington entered a six month period where processing levels will be reduced by 50% to approximately 700 tons per day. This is intended to allow the mine to implement and complete several key initiatives, including:
•
Accelerated underground development, resulting in more working faces and greater operational flexibility
•
Aggressive in-fill drilling program to better define the high-grade ore zones and convert existing resources into proven and probable reserves
•
Completion and commissioning of the underground paste backfill plant and related distribution system, providing access to stopes located in previously mined areas
•
Upgrading and completing construction of several underground and surface facilites
•
Improving overall safety of the operation
Coeur Alaska, Inc., (“Coeur Alaska”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, controls two contiguous land groups: the Kensington and Jualin properties. The Kensington property consists of 51 private patented lode and mill-site claims covering approximately 766 acres, 294 federal unpatented lode claims covering approximately 3,127 acres, and eight State of Alaska mining claims covering approximately 95 acres. The Company controls the Jualin Property, under a lease agreement with Hyak Mining Company, through the cessation of mining, so long as the Company makes timely payments pursuant to the lease agreement. The Jualin Property consists of 23 patented lode and mill-site claims covering approximately 383.6 acres, 438 federal unpatented lode claims and one unpatented mill-site claim covering approximately 7,911 acres, and 17 State of Alaska mining claims covering approximately 110 acres. The federal and state claims, as well as the private patented lode and mill-site claims, provide Coeur with the necessary rights to mine and process ore from Kensington. All of the Company’s Alaska ore reserves are located within the patented claims. The unpatented claims and mill site are maintained via annual filings and fees to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which acts as administrator of the claims. State claims are maintained via filings and fees to Alaska Department of Natural Resources - Juneau Recorder’s Office. Real property taxes to the State of Alaska are paid yearly for the patented claims. Lease payments are paid annually and all leases are in good standing.
Coeur Alaska is obligated to pay a scaled net smelter return royalty on 1.0 million ounces of future gold production after Coeur Alaska recoups the $32.5 million purchase price and its construction and development expenditures incurred after July 7, 1995 in connection with placing the property into commercial production. The royalty ranges from 1% at $400 per ounce gold prices to a maximum of 2.5% at gold prices above $475 per ounce, with the royalty to be capped at 1.0 million ounces of production.
On June 22, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision that had invalidated the previously issued Section 404 Permit for the tailings facility for the Kensington gold mine. On August 14, 2009, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers re-activated the Company’s 404 permit, clearing the way for construction at the tailing facility to continue. Production started on July 3, 2010.
The Kensington ore deposit consists of multiple gold bearing mesothermal, quartz, carbonate and pyrite vein swarms and discrete quartz-pyrite veins hosted in Cretaceous-aged Jualin diorite. Gold occurs as native grains in quartz veins and is associated with pyrite and various gold-telluride-minerals associated with the pyrite mineralization.
The Company spent $1.4 million on exploration at Kensington in 2011, completing 20,127 feet (6,135 meters) of core drilling during the year and plans to spend $4.3 million on exploration in 2012.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Kensington Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - Kensington Mine
Operating Data
(1) Current ore reserves are effective as of December 31, 2011. Metal price used in calculating proven and probable reserves was $1,220 per ounce of gold.
(2) The ore reserves are underground minable and include factors for mining dilution and recovery. A factor of approximately 10% additional tonnage at 0.063 ounces per ton of dilution was included. An average 94% mining recovery was included.
(3) Metallurgical recovery factor of 92.8% should be applied to the contained gold reserve ounces.
(4) The ore reserves were estimated by J. Barry (Mine Engineer) of the Company’s technical staff with the assistance of an independent consultant. Independent consultant groups have performed independent reviews of the Company’s resource estimate model used to prepare the ore reserve estimates.
(5) Proven and probable reserves are defined underground drilling and underground workings. In practice, reserve blocks are defined by the number of proximal composites and three-dimensional geologic controls. Proven ore reserves include stockpiled ore. Ore reserve must be defined by at least 10 drill samples from at least 2 drill holes spaced not more than 60 feet from the block center. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
(6) Includes production taxes and royalties, if applicable.
(7) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
USA - Nevada-Rochester Mine
The Rochester mine and associated heap leach facilities, is an open pit silver and gold mine, located in Pershing County, Nevada, which is located approximately 25 miles of paved and all-weather gravel road northeast of the town of Lovelock. The Company owns 100% of the Rochester Mine through the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Coeur Rochester, Inc. (“Coeur Rochester”). The mine consists of the main Rochester deposit and the adjacent Nevada Packard deposit, due south of Rochester.
Production at the Rochester mine in 2011 was approximately 1.4 million ounces of silver and 6,276 ounces of gold, compared to approximately 2.0 million ounces of silver and 9,641 ounces of gold in 2010. Production was lower due to decreased ounces recovered from the ore on the previously existing leach pad. Cash operating costs per ounce of silver increased to $22.97 per ounce in 2011, compared to $2.93 per ounce in 2010. Total cash costs per ounce of silver (which includes production taxes and royalties) were $24.82 per ounce in 2011 compared to $3.78 per ounce in 2010. This increase was primarily due to the decrease in ore produced from the current leach pad, combined with the expensing of a significant portion of the costs associated with the construction of a new leach pad, which was completed in November of 2011. Rochester’s total metal sales in 2011 totaled $57.3 million, or approximately 6% of the Company’s total metal sales. Approximately 84% of Rochester’s metal sales were derived from silver, while 16% were derived from gold. Production costs totaled $28.3 million in 2011 and depreciation and depletion expenses were $0.5 million, compared to $24.8 million and $1.9 million in 2010. The Company’s capital expenditures at the Rochester mine totaled approximately $27.2 million in 2011 and $2.3 million in 2010. The Company plans capital expenditures at the Rochester mine of $9.5 million in 2012, primarily for infrastructure.
Coeur Rochester held 541 U.S. Federal unpatented claims, of which 53 were under lease agreements, and 23 patented claims, totaling approximately 8,600 acres up through August of 2011. On September 1, 2011, the Company inadvertently missed a claims fee payment to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and as a result the prior unpatented mining claims were forfeited. The Company re-staked the claims in early December 2011 and filed notices with Pershing County, Nevada and the BLM. The new claims total 479 and cover the majority of the prior unpatented claim area. However, a substantial portion of these claims are the subject of a legal dispute stemming from competing asserted interests in the claims. A third party asserts that it also staked and filed notices on the Company’s original unpatented mining claims. The Company believes it holds a superior property interest to the adverse staking party and filed a lawsuit to quiet title in the claims. The mine operates under an approved BLM plan of operations and has continued normal operations while the legal action is pending. The Company believes there would be no impact to the current silver and gold reserves at Coeur Rochester assuming an adverse outcome. However, the Company does believe an adverse outcome would cause it to modify existing plans to further expand future mining operations and would require permits to be updated to reflect changes in claim ownership arising from an adverse outcome. See Note 21 - Litigation and Other Events for information relating to the unpatented mining claims dispute at Rochester.
The Company acquired the Rochester property from ASARCO in 1983 and commenced mining in 1986. No mining or processing was conducted at Rochester by the prior owner. The Company acquired its initial interest in the adjacent Nevada Packard property in 1996, completed the full purchase in 1999 and commenced mining in 2003. Very limited mining and processing was conducted at Nevada Packard by the prior owner. Collectively, the Rochester and Nevada Packard properties comprise the Company’s Rochester silver and gold mining and processing operation.
The Rochester mine is fully supported with electricity, supplied by a local power company on their public grid, telephone and radio communications, production water wells, and processing, maintenance, warehouse, and office facilities. All of these facilities are in good operating condition with no major maintenance expected. The mine utilizes the heap leaching process to extract both silver and gold from ore mined using conventional open pit methods.
Gold and silver are recovered by heap leaching of crushed open-pit ore placed on pads located east of the Rochester mining area. Based upon actual operating experience and metallurgical testing, the Company estimates ultimate recovery rates from the crushed ore of between 59.0% and 63.0% for silver, depending on the ore being leached, and 93.0% for gold. See Note 3 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our financial statements included herein, for further discussion.
The Company commenced studies to investigate the potential to recommence mining and leaching of new material in 2008 and completed feasibility studies in 2009 and 2010 demonstrating the viability of an expansion of mining and leaching operations at its Rochester mine through 2017. The Company prepared an Amended Plan of Operations for resumption of mining within the existing and permitted Rochester pit and construction of an additional heap leach pad, all within the currently permitted mine boundary. The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) deemed this plan complete in August 2009 under federal regulations and initiated the National Environmental Policy Act process. The BLM issued a positive Decision Record (DR) for the mine to extend silver and gold mining operations by several years with new production ounces being recovered in the fourth quarter of 2011.
At Rochester, silver and gold mineralization is hosted in folded and faulted volcanic rocks of the Rochester Formation and overlying Weaver Formation. Silver and gold, consisting of silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite, silver-bearing tetrahedrite and minor native gold, are contained in zones of multiple quartz veins and veinlets (vein and vein swarms and stockworks) with variable amounts of pyrite.
The Company is obligated to pay a net smelter royalty interest to ASARCO, the prior owner, when the average quarterly market price of silver equals or exceeds $23.02 per ounce indexed for inflation up to a maximum rate of 5%. Royalty expense was $2.2 million, $0.2 and nil for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
In 2011, exploration expenditures of $2.2 million funded 74,215 feet (22,621 meters) of angled reverse circulation and core drilling. The 2012 budget for exploration is $4.4 million.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Rochester Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - Rochester Mine
Operating Data
(1) Current ore reserves are open-pit minable effective as of December 31, 2011. Metal prices used in calculating proven and probable reserves were $23.00 per ounce of silver and $1,220 per ounce of gold.
(2) No factors for mining dilution or recovery are applied to open-pit ore reserves.
(3) Metallurgical recovery for oxide ore were 61% for silver and 92% for gold. Approximately .08 million tons (3.8%) of sulfide bearing ore is included in the total ore reserves at lower metallurgical recovery rates. However, ultimate recoveries will not be known until leaching operations cease. Current recovery may vary significantly from ultimate recovery, calculated based on the ounces recovered as a percent of the ounces placed on the pad. The ore reserves were estimated by C. Kiel (Superintendent of Rochester Technical Services) and the Company’s technical staff. An independent consulting group reviewed engineering studies and a consulting firm modeled results from drilling and updated estimates of mineralized material.
(4) Ore reserves are defined by drilling on a grid of 100 feet by 200 feet, or closer, and include open pit mine production sampling to assist with determination of gold and silver grades. The grade is defined by the number of proximal drill-hole composited assay values and three-dimensional geologic controls. The number of drill samples used in estimation of grades must be at least 4 with a maximum search distance of 150 feet at Rochester and 120 feet at Nevada Packard. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
(5) Mining and crushing operations temporarily terminated in August 2007 and resumed in 2011.
(6) Includes production taxes and royalties, if applicable.
(7) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
(8) Current ore reserves were calculated entirely within Coeur Rochester’s patented and undisputed claims. The Company believes there would be no impact to current silver and gold reserves at Coeur Rochester assuming an adverse legal outcome to the ongoing claim dispute.
(9) Current mineralized material estimates were calculated from within both disputed and undisputed claims. While the Company believes it holds a superior position in the ongoing claim dispute, the Company believes an adverse legal outcome would cause it to modify mineralized material estimates.
Argentina - Martha Mine
The Martha underground silver and gold mine, and associated milling operation, owned and operated by Coeur Argentina S.R.L., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is located in the Santa Cruz Province of southern Argentina. Access to the property is provided by all-weather gravel roads leading 30 miles northeast of the town of Gobernador Gregores.
Production at the Martha mine in 2011 was approximately 0.5 million ounces of silver and 615 ounces of gold compared to 1.6 million ounces of silver and 1,838 ounces of gold in 2010. The 66.4% decrease in silver production was primarily due to a decrease in ore grade in 2011. Cash operating costs per ounce for 2011 were $32.79 per ounce compared to $13.16 per ounce in 2010. Total cash costs per ounce of silver (which includes production taxes and royalties) were $34.08 in 2011 compared to $14.14 in 2010. The increase in total cash costs per ounce was attributed to the decrease in silver production as compared to 2010. Metal sales in 2011 totaled $13.3 million at Martha. Approximately 95% of these metal sales were derived from silver, with the balance coming from gold. Production costs totaled $15.5 million and depreciation and depletion expenses were $0.6 million, compared with $27.0 million and $8.5 million in 2010. Total capital expenditures at the Martha mine in 2011 were $3.4 million.
The mineral rights for the Martha property are fully-owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L. Mineral rights owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L. in the Santa Cruz Province (excluding Joaquin) total 166 square miles (43,214 hectares) of exploration concessions (“cateos”), 275 square miles (71,281 hectares) of discovery concessions (“manifestaciones de descubrimiento”), and 3.0 square miles (774 hectares) of exploitation concessions (“concesiones de exploitacion”). Martha is centered on the exploitation concessions, which fully cover the area of the mine infrastructure and the ore reserves reported herein. Concessions do not have an expiration date, subject only to required annual fees. Surface rights covering the Martha deposit are controlled by the 137.8 square mile (35,705-hectare) Cerro Primero de Abril Estancia which is owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L. Included on the estancia is a 60-person camp, mine and exploration offices, and assay laboratory.
The Company acquired the property in 2002 and is obligated to pay a 2.0% net smelter royalty on silver and gold production to Royal Gold Corporation. In addition, the Company is subject to a 3.0% net proceeds royalty payable to the Province of Santa Cruz. The Company incurred royalty expense totaling $0.7 million, $1.5 million and $1.8 million for the years ended 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
The Company operates a 240 tonne per day flotation mill at the site, which produces a flotation concentrate that is shipped to a third-party smelter located in Mexico. The property and equipment are maintained in good working condition through a regular preventive maintenance program with periodic improvements as required. Power is provided by Company-owned diesel generators.
At Martha, silver and gold mineralization is hosted in epithermal quartz veins and veinlets within generally sub-horizontal volcanic rocks of the Jurassic-aged Chon Aike Formation. The veins and veinlets occur as sub-parallel clusters largely trending west-northwest and dipping steeply to the southwest. The main ore minerals of silver and gold are silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite, electrum (a naturally-occurring gold and silver alloy) and native silver.
During 2011, the Company spent $0.3 million to test extensions of the Martha, Marthe Norte, Betty, and Wendy ore-bearing structures with drilling of 12,605 feet (3,824 meters) of new core drilling. The 2012 budget for exploration at Martha is $0.5 million.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Martha Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - Martha Mine
Operating Data
(1) Current ore reserves are effective as of December 31, 2011. Metal prices used for current ore reserves were $24.00 per ounce of silver and $1,250 per ounce of gold.
(2) Ore reserves are mostly underground minable with minor additions from small open pits. Underground reserves include a variable dilution, at zero grade, added to vein true widths. Underground mining recovery is 70-95%. Open pit reserves have variable dilution ranging from 16% to 20% at zero grade and a mining recovery of 85%.
(3) Metallurgical recovery factors of 85% for silver and 88% for gold should be applied to the contained silver and gold reserve ounces.
(4) Ore reserves were prepared by O. Orosco (Mine Manager for the Martha mine) and the Company’s technical staff.
(5) Ore reserves are defined with polygonal estimation using underground channels and drill hole samples. For probable reserves: An area demonstrating grade continuity with channel sample or drill hole spacing less than 25 meters. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
(6) Includes production taxes and royalties, if applicable.
(7) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
Australia - New South Wales - Endeavor Mine
The Endeavor mine, is an underground silver and base metal operation, and associated mill facility, located in north-central New South Wales, Australia, about 447 miles (720 kilometers) from Sydney. Access to the mine is by paved roads 30 miles (18 kilometers) to the northwest from the community of Cobar.
Production at the Endeavor mine in 2011 was 613,361 ounces of silver compared to 566,134 ounces of silver in 2010. The increase in silver production was due to a 13.8% increase in tons milled and was partially offset by a 6.7% decrease in ore grades as compared to 2010. Cash operating costs and total cash costs per ounce of silver produced were $18.87 in 2011 compared to $10.15 in 2010. This increase was due primarily to the price participation component of the transaction and increased refining costs due to silver deduction retained by the refiner.
Metal sales at the Endeavor mine in 2011 were $18.7 million, all of which was derived from silver. Production costs totaled $8.6 million and depreciation and depletion costs were $3.1 million. The Company incurred no capital expenditures at the Endeavor mine in 2011.
The ore reserves at Endeavor are covered by five consolidated mining leases issued by the state of New South Wales to Cobar Operations Pty. Limited (“Cobar”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBH Resources Ltd. (“CBH”), which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Toho Zinc Co. Ltd., a company listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The leases form a contiguous block of 10,121 acres in size and expire between 2019 and 2027.
The Endeavor mine has been in production since 1983 and is owned and operated by CBH. On May 23, 2005, CDE Australia Pty. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Coeur (“CDE Australia”), acquired all of the silver production and reserves, up to a maximum 17.7 million payable ounces, contained at the Endeavor Mine, which is owned and operated by CBH, for $44.0 million including transaction fees. Under the terms of the original agreement, CDE Australia paid Cobar $15.4 million of cash at the closing. In addition, CDE Australia agreed to pay Cobar approximately $26.5 million upon the receipt of a report confirming that the reserves at the Endeavor mine are equal to or greater than the reported ore reserves for 2004. In addition, CDE Australia originally committed to pay Cobar an operating cost contribution of $1.00 for each ounce of payable silver plus a further increment when the silver price exceeds $5.23 per ounce. This further increment was to have begun on the second anniversary of this agreement and is 50% of the amount by which the silver price exceeds $5.23 per ounce. A cost contribution of $0.25 per ounce is also payable by CDE Australia in respect of new ounces of
proven and probable silver reserves as they are discovered. During the first quarter of 2007, $2.1 million was paid for additional ounces of proven and probable silver reserves under the terms of the contract. This amount was capitalized as a cost of the mineral interests acquired and is being amortized using the units of production method. The Company is not required to contribute to ongoing capital costs at the mine.
On March 28, 2006, CDE Australia reached an agreement with CBH to modify the terms of the original silver purchase agreement. Under the modified terms, CDE Australia owns all silver production and reserves up to a total of 20.0 million payable ounces, up from 17.7 million payable ounces in the original agreement. The silver price-sharing provision was deferred until such time as CDE Australia had received approximately two million cumulative ounces of silver from the mine or June 2007, whichever was later. In addition, the silver price-sharing threshold increased to $7.00 per ounce, from the previous level of $5.23 per ounce. The conditions relating to the second payment were also modified and tied to certain paste fill plant performance criteria and mill throughput tests. In January 2008, the mine met the criteria for payment of the additional $26.2 million. This amount was paid on April 1, 2008, plus accrued interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum from January 24, 2008. Expansion of the ore reserve will be required to achieve the maximum payable ounces of silver production as set forth in the modified contract. It is expected that future expansion to the ore reserve will occur as a result of the conversion of portions of the property’s existing inventory of mineralized material and future exploration discoveries near the mine.
The mine employs bulk mining methods and utilizes a conventional flotation mill to produce a concentrate that is sold to a third-party smelter. Silver recovery averaged approximately 45.0% in 2011 and 44.3% in 2010. Power to the mine and processing facilities is provided by the grid servicing the local communities. The property and equipment are maintained in good working condition by CBH through a regular preventive maintenance program with periodic improvements as required.
At Endeavor, silver, lead, zinc and lesser amounts of copper mineralization are contained within sulfide lenses hosted in fine-grained sedimentary rocks of the Paleozoic-aged Amphitheatre Group. Sulfide lenses are elliptically-shaped, steeply-dipping to the southwest and strike to the northwest. Principal ore minerals are galena, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Silver occurs with both lead- and zinc-rich sulfide zones.
CBH conducts exploration to define new reserves at the mine from both underground and surface core drilling platforms. For fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, which is the fiscal year used by the operator (CBH), the exploration expenditure at the mine was $0.5 million (0.5 AUD). Budgeted exploration for 2012 is approximately $3.4 million (3.2 AUD).
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Endeavor Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - Endeavor Mine
Operating Data (Coeur’s Share)
(1) Ore reserves are effective as of June 30, 2011, which is the end of the most recent fiscal year of the operator, CBH Resources Ltd. These totals do not include additions or depletions through December 31, 2011. Ore reserves were estimated with a cutoff grade of 7.0% combined lead and zinc. Metal prices used were $2,200 per metric ton of zinc, $2,200 per metric ton of lead, and $25.00 per ounce of silver.
(2) The ore reserves are underground and open pit minable. Dilution factors, ranging from 5% to 25%, and mining recovery factors, ranging from 40% to 95%, were applied to in-situ reserves depending on the type of planned mining extraction.
(3) Metallurgical recovery factor of 45% should be applied to the silver reserve ounces.
(4) The ore reserves were prepared by the staff of the mine operator and reviewed by the staff of the Company’s Technical Services Department. Classification of reserves is based on spacing from drill hole composites to reserve block centers. For proven reserves the maximum distance is 25 meters and for probable reserves it is 40 meters. A minimum of 5 drill hole samples from at least 2 drill holes are used in estimation of ore reserve grades. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
(5) Includes production taxes and royalties, if applicable.
(6) Cash costs per ounce of silver represent a non U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
Discontinued Operations
Australia - New South Wales - Broken Hill Mine
Effective July 1, 2009, the Company sold to Perilya Broken Hill Ltd. its 100% interest in silver contained at the Broken Hill mine for $55.0 million in cash. As a result of this transaction, the Company realized a gain on the sale in the third quarter of 2009 of approximately $25.5 million, net of income taxes. Coeur originally purchased this interest from Perilya Broken Hill Ltd. in September 2005 for $36.9 million. This transaction closed on July 30, 2009. Results for the Broken Hill mine are included in Note 6 - Discontinued Operations.
Operating Data (Coeur’s share)
(1) Includes production taxes.
(2) Cash costs per ounce of silver represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
(3) Broken Hill was sold in July 2009 therefore production totals represent a partial year.
Chile - Cerro Bayo Mine
In August 2010, the Company sold its subsidiary Compañía Minera Cerro Bayo Ltda. (“Minera Cerro Bayo”), which controlled the Cerro Bayo mine in southern Chile, to Mandalay Resources Corporation (“Mandalay”). Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received the following from Mandalay in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of Minera Cerro Bayo: (i) $6.0 million in cash; (ii) 17,857,143 common shares of Mandalay; (iii) 125,000 ounces of silver to be delivered in six equal quarterly installments commencing in the third quarter of 2011, which had an estimated fair value of $2.3 million; (iv) a 2.0% Net Smelter Royalty (NSR) on production from Minera Cerro Bayo in excess of a cumulative 50,000 ounces of gold and 5,000,000 ounces of silver, which had an estimated fair value of $5.4 million; and (v) existing value-added taxes collected from the Chilean government in excess of $3.5 million. As part of the transaction, Mandalay agreed to pay the next $6.0 million of reclamation costs associated with Minera Cerro Bayo’s nearby Furioso property. Any reclamation costs above that amount will be shared equally by Mandalay and the Company. The Company realized a loss on the sale of approximately $2.1 million, net of income taxes. Results for the Cerro Bayo mine are included in Note 6 - Discontinued Operations.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Cerro Bayo Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material - Cerro Bayo Mine
(1) Ore reserves are effective as of December 31, 2009. Metal prices used to calculate proven and probable reserves were $14.50 per ounce of silver and $850 per ounce of gold.
(2) Ore reserves are minable reserves within underground mine designs and include factors for mining dilution and recovery. Veins are diluted to a minimum mining width of 2.4 meters at zero grade. Mining recovery is 90%.
(3) Metallurgical recoveries of 93.4% and 90.5% should be applied to the contained silver and gold ounces, respectively.
(4) Ore reserve estimates were prepared by J. Sims (Geologist), and D. Duffy (Mining Engineer) of the Company’s technical staff.
(5) Proven and probable reserves are defined by geostatistical methods within manual boundaries based on grade thickness contouring. For proven reserves: An area demonstrating grade continuity defined by two or more bounding horizontal levels of drill holes or channel samples spaced vertically no more than about 12.5 meters containing horizontally spaced samples less than 5 meters apart - the key feature being confirmation on two levels. For probable reserves: An area demonstrating grade continuity with channel sample or drill hole spacing less than about 35 meters. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
Condition of Physical Assets and Insurance
The Company business is capital intensive, requiring ongoing capital investment for the replacement, modernization, or expansion of equipment and facilities. For more information, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” below.
The Company maintains insurance policies against property loss and business interruption and insures against risks that are typical in the operation of its business, in amounts the Company believes to be reasonable . Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on coverage, particularly with respect to environmental liability and political risk. There can be no assurance that claims would be paid under such insurance policies in connection with connection with a particular event. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
NON PRODUCING AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
Joaquin Project - Argentina: The Joaquin silver and gold development project is located in the Santa Cruz province of southern Argentina approximately 43 miles (70kms) north of the Company’s Martha mine. The property is accessed by all weather dirt roads, leading north-northeast from the town of Gobernador Gregores.
The Joaquin property encompasses over 70,819 acres (28,459 hectares) of exploration concessions. 46,114 acres (18,460 hectares) are held by Mirasol Resources Ltd., the Company’s joint venture partner, and 24,705 acres (9,999 hectares) are held by Coeur Argentina.
In November 2006, the Company entered into an exploration and joint venture agreement with Mirasol Resources Ltd., for two properties termed Joaquin and Sascha (under terms of the agreement, the Company terminated its option interest in Sascha). In November 2007, the Company commenced exploration on the Joaquin property. Since that time the Company has defined silver and gold mineralization in two deposits at Joaquin - La Negra and La Morocha - and has recently commenced work on detailed drilling and other technical, economic and environmental programs which it expects will lead to completion of a feasibility study. The Company currently has a 51% participating and managing equity interest in the Joaquin property based on the agreement. Upon completion of a feasibility study, the Company will have earned an additional 10% participating and management interest in the property, bringing its total to 61%. The Company has further rights to increase its participating interest in the property to 71% subject to other conditions in the agreement.
The geology of the Joaquin property consists dominantly of various volcanic rocks of the Jurassic-aged Chon Aike Formation, the host to most of the precious metal deposits discovered to-date in the Santa Cruz province, with lesser amounts of intrusive rocks associated with the Chon Aike Formation. Collectively, the volcanic and intrusive rock units form a prominent geologic domain in the province termed the Deseado Massif. Silver and Gold mineralization at Joaquin occurs in epithermal veins, breccia, stockwork veinlets and mantos within the favorable units of the Chon Aike Formation. Occurrences of lead and zinc mineralization have also been discovered. Locally, the rocks of the Deseado Massif are covered by Tertiary-aged basalt and younger unconsolidated sediments, that post-date silver and gold mineralization.
Year-end Mineralized Material - Joaquin Development Property
(1) Mineralized material is effective as of May 2011. Metal prices used to calculate mineralized material were $1,300 per ounce of gold and $20.00 per ounce of silver. Tons are shown reflecting the Company’s current 51% managing equity interest in the Joaquin property.
(2) Mineralized material was estimated with surface mine parameters and initial metallurgical test results.
(3) Mineralized material estimates were prepared by a consulting engineering group from Santiago, Chile and supervised by A. Cruzat and C. Romo of the Company’s exploration staff.
(4) Mineralized material was estimated using 3-dimensional geologic modeling and geostatistical evaluation of the exploration drill data. Blocks must be influenced by at least two different drill holes within a distance corresponding to 100% of the variogram range of each deposit.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
Exploration and reserve development expenditures of $26.3 million, $18.0 million and $15.8 million were incurred by the Company in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The main components of the 2011 program included:
•
Surface drilling to extend the strike length, and define the Guadalupe and La Patria deposits in the Palmarejo district and initial testing of several new targets in the district.
•
Drilling to define and expand known mineralized zones in and around the current Palmarejo surface and underground mine. The program was focused on the Tucson-Chapotillo zones with surface drilling and on the Rosario and 76 zones with underground drilling.
•
Surface drilling to expand the La Negra and La Morocha deposits in the Santa Cruz province of southern Argentina and exploration on the Joaquin property. Exploration drilling at the Martha mine and on the Satélite and Tornado in Argentina was also conducted.
•
Underground drilling to expand and define mineralization in the Raven Vein at Kensington.
•
Surface drilling to test extensions of the main north-northeast mineralized trends from Nevada Packard and Packard deposits within the greater Rochester property.
•
New surface trenching and sampling at San Bartolomé in Bolivia designed to expand and increase the confidence in ore reserves and mineralized material; the first systematic new sampling to be conducted since 2004.
Coeur plans to spend $39.9 million in exploration during 2012 with approximately 84% of the budget earmarked for expansion of ore reserves and mineralized material at or near its existing operations at San Bartolomé (Bolivia), Martha (Argentina), Palmarejo (Mexico), Kensington (Alaska), Rochester (Nevada), and on its large exploration land holdings in Santa Cruz, Argentina, which include the Joaquin property.
Mexico
Exploration in Mexico was focused primarily in the Palmarejo district in the state of Chihuahua. A total of $13.2 million was spent in 2011 on mapping, sampling, drill target generation and drilling to find and define new silver and gold mineralization. A total of 263,189 feet (80,220 meters) was completed in the large Palmarejo district, the majority of which consisted of 141,598 feet (43,159 meters) of surface and underground drilling completed around the current Palmarejo surface and underground mine. The remainder was devoted to the Guadalupe and La Patria deposit areas and other new targets in the Palmarejo district. The budget for 2012 for exploration in Mexico is similar to 2011 at $16.6 million of which over 95% is to be allocated to the Palmarejo
district. A new program of exploration is planned to identify and acquire prospective new properties in other parts of Mexico.
In 2010 the company agreed to sell its interest in 8 mining concessions at the El Realito property, which is located about 30 kilometers south of the Palmarejo mill facilities, for a total of $0.5 million and a graduated net smelter return royalty. Periodic payments totaling $0.2 million, have been made through December 31, 2011. In 2011, the Company acquired from Azteca Gold Corporation the Guerra al Tirano concessions, located in the south-southeast portion of the Palmarejo District, for a total cash cost of $1.2 million. The seller retains a 2% net smelter return royalty of which 1.5% (75%) can be purchased by the Company. Guerra al Tirano occurs on one of the many regional-scale northwest-trending mineralized structures that transect the Palmarejo district.
USA - Kensington
Exploration in 2011 consisted of drilling 20,127 feet (6,135 meters), at Kensington. The majority of this work was devoted to the Raven vein, with other drilling conducted on the Kimberly, Comet, and Kensington South targets. Raven is a shear-hosted , gold -in-quartz vein zone, which is parallel to and approximately 2,000 feet (600 meters) west of the main Kensington mine area. The Company plans for an additional drilling program in 2012 on Raven and other targets with a budget of $4.3 million.
USA - Rochester
The Company conducted a drilling program at the Nevada Packard and Rochester areas in 2011. This program, amounting to 74,215 feet (22,621 meters) of angled, reverse circulation and core drill holes, was focused on testing northern extensions of the main mineralized trends in the Nevada Packard and Rochester deposits. The Company has allocated $4.4 million for exploration in 2012 at the greater Rochester property.
Chile - Other Properties
The 2012 exploration budget for Chile is expected to be $1.1 million, consisting of identification and evaluation of potential new mining properties, supervision of exploration within Argentina and Chile, and the first phase of exploration on the Company’s various exploration-stage properties in Chile.
In 2010 the Company agreed to sell its wholly-owned Puchuldiza gold property in northern Chile for a total of $1.5 million cash, 500,000 shares of Southern Legacy Inc., and a 1.5% net smelter return royalty on future mineral production with a cap of $5.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, all cash payments had been made to the Company.
Argentina - Martha Mine
In 2011, the Company’s exploration efforts at the Martha Mine consisted of 17,598 feet (5,364 meters) of core drilling in several locations around the mine and at the Company’s Wendy target east-south of the mine.
Argentina - Other Properties
The Company also continued exploration in other parts of the Santa Cruz Province. Activities focused on the Joaquin, Tornado and Satélite properties. A total of 37,237 feet of drilling (11,350 meters) was completed on these three areas.
Drilling at Joaquin during 2011 continued to return encouraging results on two targets: La Negra and La Morocha. Joaquin is located about 43 miles (70 kilometers) north of the Martha mine. Additional exploratory and definition drilling will continue in 2012 on this property. In 2010, the Company met its obligations, under its agreement with Mirasol Resources Ltd., to earn an initial 51% participating and managing equity interest in the 70,323 acre (109 square miles or 28,459 hectare) property. In 2011, the Company elected to proceed to increase its participating and managing equity interest to 61% by completing, at its sole cost, a feasibility study and the Company has a further option to increase its participating and managing equity interest to 71% subject to certain terms in its joint venture agreement with Mirasol.
The Company has budgeted $9.6 million for exploration during 2012 in Argentina, $5.8 million is devoted to Joaquin.
Bolivia - San Bartolomé
The Company has budgeted $0.4 million for follow-up trenching and sampling around San Bartolomé and for land holding costs. Samples from the planned program will be analyzed for both silver and tin.
Africa, Tanzania
During 2011 the company continued to wind-down its activities in Tanzania.
Item 3.