Item 2. Properties.
SILVER AND GOLD MINING PROPERTIES
North America
Rochester Mine
The Rochester Mine is a silver and gold surface mine located in Pershing County, Nevada, which is located approximately 25 road miles northeast of the town of Lovelock. The mine commenced operations in 1986. The Company owns 100% of the Rochester Mine by virtue of its 100% ownership of its subsidiary, Coeur Rochester, Inc. (“Coeur Rochester”). The property consists of 22 patented and 589 unpatented contiguous mining claims, including 54 mill-site claims and 53 unpatented, leased claims totaling approximately 11,000 acres.
The Company acquired the Rochester property from Asarco Incorporated in 1983 and commenced mining in 1986. No mining or processing was conducted at Rochester by the prior owner. The Company acquired initial interest in the adjacent Nevada Packard property in 1996, completed the full purchase in 1999 and commenced mining in 2003. Very limited mining and processing was conducted at Nevada Packard by the prior owner. Collectively, the Rochester and Nevada Packard properties comprise the Company’s Rochester silver and gold mining and processing operation.
Production at the Rochester mine in 2006 was approximately 5.1 million ounces of silver and 71,900 ounces of gold, compared to 5.7 million ounces of silver and 70,298 ounces of gold in 2005. Cash costs per ounce of silver decreased by 42% to $2.80 per ounce in 2006, compared to $4.82 per ounce in 2005, primarily due to increased byproduct credits.
The mine utilizes the heap leaching process to extract both silver and gold from ore mined using conventional open pit methods. Approximately 34,800 tons of ore and waste per day were mined in 2006, compared to 47,300 tons per day in 2005. The average ore to waste strip ratio for the remaining life of the mine will vary based primarily on future gold and silver prices; however, it is anticipated to be less than 1:1. The Company expects to complete mining of the existing ore reserves near the middle of 2007. While mining operations will be discontinued, it is expected that metal production will continue as a result of residual leaching until approximately 2011.
Ore is crushed and transported by conveyor to a loadout facility where it is transferred to 150-ton trucks which transport the crushed ore to leach pads where solution is applied via drip irrigation to dissolve the silver and gold contained in the ore. Certain low-grade ores are hauled directly, as run-of-mine, by 100-ton haul trucks to leach pads where solution is applied to dissolve the silver and gold contained in the ore. The solutions containing the dissolved silver and gold are pumped to a processing plant where zinc precipitation is used to recover the silver and gold from solution as doré. The doré is transported to a refinery for final processing after which the silver and gold is sold on established markets through third party broker dealers. The property, plant and equipment are maintained in good working condition through a regular preventive maintenance program and periodic improvements as required. Mining is conducted with open pit methods. Power is provided to the mine and processing facility from the public grid servicing the local communities.
Based upon actual operating experience and certain metallurgical testing, the Company estimates ultimate recovery rates from the crushed ore of between 59% and 61.5% for silver, depending on the area being leached, and 93% for gold. The leach cycle at the Rochester Mine requires leaching to approximately the year 2011 for all recoverable metal to be recovered. A significant proportion of metal recovery occurs after mining is completed.
At the Nevada Packard satellite deposit, located south of the Rochester deposit, the Company commenced mining of silver in the first quarter of 2003. Mining at Nevada Packard is expected to be completed in mid-2007.
The Company’s capital expenditures at the Rochester Mine totaled approximately $1.2 million in 2006. The Company plans capital expenditures at the Rochester Mine of $0.3 million in 2007.
Asarco Incorporated (“Asarco”), the prior owner, had a net smelter royalty interest which is payable only when the market price of silver equals or exceeds $21.34 per ounce up to maximum rate of 5%. No royalties were required to be paid by the Company during the three years ended December 31, 2006.
Silver and gold mineralization is hosted in folded and faulted volcanic rocks of the Rochester Formation and overlying Weaver Formation. Silver and gold, consisting of silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite, argentian tetrahedrite and minor native gold, are contained in zones of multiple quartz veins and veinlets with variable but lesser amounts of pyrite.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves- Rochester Mine
(includes Nevada Packard)
Year-end Mineralized Material
Operating Data
(1) Metal prices used in calculating proven and probable reserves were $8.00 per ounce of silver and $475 per ounce of gold in 2006.
(2) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S. GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
(3) The ore reserves are open pit minable reserves and include no additional factors for mining dilution or recovery.
(4) The leach cycle at Rochester requires 5 to 10 years to recover gold and silver contained in the ore. The Company estimates the ultimate recovery to be approximately 61.5% for silver and 93% for gold. However, ultimate recoveries will not be known until leaching operations cease which is currently estimated for 2011. Current recovery may vary significantly from ultimate recovery. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Ore on Leach Pad.
(5) Reserve estimates were prepared by the Company’s technical staff.
(6) Ore reserves are defined by a drill grid of at least 65 feet by 140 feet for proven and at least 100 feet by 200 feet for probable and may include open pit mine production sampling information, especially for proven. In practice, ore reserve blocks are defined by the number of proximal composites and three-dimensional geologic controls. For proven reserves, the number of composites must be at least 4 at Rochester and 20 at Nevada Packard with a maximum search distance of 75 feet. For probable reserves, the number of composites must be at least 4 at Rochester and 5 at Nevada Packard with a maximum search distance of 150 feet for Rochester and 120 feet at Nevada Packard. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
South America
Chile - Cerro Bayo Mine
The Cerro Bayo District covers about 205 square miles and is located south of Coyhaique, the capital of Region XI in southern Chile, and approximately 17 miles west of the town of Chile Chico. The project lies on the east side of the Andes mountain range at an elevation ranging from 600 to 4,500 feet and is serviced by a gravel road from Chile Chico. The mineral rights for the Cerro Bayo property are fully-owned by Compania Minera Cerro Bayo Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, encompassing a continuous block of 57,095 acres of mining claims. An additional 11,613 acres of exploration concessions are owned by the Company. These concessions and separate surface use agreements from private owners, cover the reserves of the property as well as the necessary rights to permit mining.
The Company acquired the property in 1990 from Freeport Chilean Exploration Company. No mining or processing was conducted by the prior owner. Initial mining and processing commenced by the Company in 1995 at the Laguna Verde area in the western portion of the holdings. Mining and processing temporarily ceased in late 2000 then recommenced in 2002 at the Cerro Bayo area on the east. The entire holdings and infrastructure are now referred to as Cerro Bayo district. Construction of two ramps to intersect the high-grade Lucero Vein in the Cerro Bayo zone on the east side of its holdings, commenced in November 2001. Additional mineralized high-grade gold and silver vein systems were discovered since then from surface and underground exploration.
Production at the Cerro Bayo mine in 2006 was approximately 2.3 million ounces of silver and 40,923 ounces of gold compared to 2.9 million ounces of silver and 61,058 ounces of gold in 2005. Cash costs per ounce of silver produced increased to $3.04 in 2006 from $0.54 in 2005 primarily due to increased production costs and lower production levels.
The ore processing mill for the Cerro Bayo Mine uses a standard flotation process to produce a high grade gold and silver concentrate. During 2006, the concentrate processed at this mill was sold to third-party smelters, primarily in Japan and Mexico. The mill has a design capacity of 1,650 tons per day. During 2006, the Company experienced recovery rates of approximately 94.7% for silver and 92.9% for gold. Electrical power is generated on-site by diesel generators and process water is obtained from a combination of the adjacent General Carrera Lake and from tailings re-circulation. The property, plant and equipment are maintained in good working condition through a regular preventive maintenance program and periodic improvements as required. Mining is conducted utilizing underground methods. Total capital expenditures at the Cerro Bayo property in 2006 were $7.6 million and the Company plans approximately $11.1 million of additional capital expenditures there in 2007.
During 2006, the Company continued its exploration and development program in the district with its efforts concentrated in the Cerro Bayo and Laguna Verde zones in the east and west sections of the Company’s land holdings. In 2006, we spent approximately $5.3 million on exploration and mine development for new gold and silver mineralization and reserve definition and completed nearly 232,000 feet of core drilling. The Company plans to continue its extensive exploration and mine development programs in the district in 2007 with a budget of $4.7 million for this work.
Silver and gold mineralization is hosted in epithermal quartz veins and veinlets and lesser amounts of stockworks and breccias within generally sub-horizontal volcanic rocks of the Ibanez Formation. Veins and veinlets occur in sub-parallel clusters largely trending north-northwest and dipping steeply to the west and east. The main ore minerals of silver and gold are silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite and electrum (a naturally-occurring gold and silver alloy). Numerous epithermal veins located within the 205 square mile property package in the Cerro Bayo district offer exploration and development opportunities for us. To date, we have discovered over 100 veins, the majority of which are located within nine miles of our existing ore processing facilities. During 2006, exploration continued to focus on the Marcela Sur and Cascada veins. Marcela Sur, situated about 1,000 meters west of the current mining operations in main Cero Bayo zone, was discovered beneath 50 to 70 meters of post-mineral gravels. Cascada lies south of the Cerro Bayo mining operations.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Cerro Bayo Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material
Operating Data
(1) Metal prices used to calculate proven and probable reserves were $8.00/ounce of Ag and $475/ounce of Au.
(2) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
(3) The ore reserves are minable reserves within underground mine designs and include factors for mining dilution and recovery.
(4) Underground mine reserves include dilution of 5% to 25% at zero grade. Mining recovery averages between 90% to 95% for underground reserves.
(5) Metallurgical recovery factors of 93.8% and 91.6% should be applied to the in-place silver and gold reserves ounces, respectively.
(6) Reserve estimates were prepared by the Company’s technical staff.
(7) Proven and probable reserves are defined by a drill spacing of no more than 35 meters and may include underground production sampling information, especially for proven. In practice, ore reserve blocks are defined by the number of proximal composites and three-dimensional geologic controls. For proven reserves the number of composites must be at least 1 with a maximum search distance of generally 15 meters. For probable, the number of composites must be at least 2 with a maximum search distance of generally 35 meters. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
Argentina - Martha Mine
The Martha Mine, owned and operated by Coeur Argentina S.R.L., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is located in the Santa Cruz Province of southern Argentina. Access to the mine is provided by all-weather gravel roads 30 miles northeast of the town of Gubernador Gregores and approximately 270 miles southeast of Cerro Bayo.
The mineral rights for the Martha property are fully-owned by Coeur Argentina S.R.L., encompassing a continuous block of 137,978 acres of exploration claims, 83,813 acres of discovery claims, and 351 acres of exploitation claims. The concessions cover the reserves of the property as well as the necessary rights to permit mining. The property and equipment are maintained in good working condition through a regular preventive maintenance program and periodic improvements as required. Power is provided by Company-owned diesel generators.
The Company acquired the property in 2002 through the purchase of a subsidiary of Yamana Resources Inc. for $2.5 million. The prior owner conducted minor underground mining on the near-surface portion of the Martha vein from late 2000 to mid 2001. The Company is obligated to pay a 2% net smelter royalty on silver and gold production to Royal Gold Corporation.
We transport ore mined utilizing underground methods at the Martha Mine by truck for processing at the Cerro Bayo mill, which is located 270 miles northwest of the Martha Mine. The transport costs to ship the ore to the Cerro Bayo mill from the Martha Mine have necessitated a focus on the highest grade portions of the veins discovered at the Martha Mine; however, lower grade mineralized material exists, but is not included in reserves. During 2007, the Company plans to complete a feasibility study at the Martha mine which may allow the processing of the lower-grade material.
In June 2002, we commenced shipping of high-grade Martha Mine ore to the Cerro Bayo mill. All of the production came from the Martha vein, which was one of six known veins on the Martha Mine property prior to our acquisition of the property. Also in 2002, exploration discovered both extensions of the Martha Mine vein and the R4 Zone within the vein, which is located 300 feet southwest of the main Martha Mine mining areas.
Production at the Martha mine in 2006 was approximately 2.7 million ounces of silver and 3,440 ounces of gold compared to 2.1 million ounces of silver and 2,589 ounces of gold in 2005. Cash cost per ounce of silver produced was $4.88 in 2006 compared to $4.60 in 2005.
During 2006, we spent $3.6 million on exploration and mine development at the Martha Mine, and at our other properties in the Santa Cruz province, to discover new silver- and gold-bearing veins and define new reserves. During 2007, we expect to spend $4.7 million on exploration for the discovery of new mineralization and reserve development, across our large land holdings in the province of Santa Cruz which totals over 600 square miles. In 2006, exploration defined extensions at depth and on strike on the Martha, R4, Catalina and Francisca ore-bearing structures which were a major focus of the year’s program. In addition to the effort around the mine this year, the Company added four new exploration properties referred to as the El Aguila, Sol del Mayo, Sascha and Joaquin properties. Silver reserves at December 31, 2006 increased by 50% to 6.1 million ounces from 2005.
Silver and gold mineralization is hosted in epithermal quartz veins and veinlets within, generally sub-horizontal volcanic rocks of the Chon Aike Formation. The veins and veinlets occur as sub-parallel clusters largely trending west-northwest and dipping steeply to the southwest. The main ore minerals of silver and gold are silver sulfosalt minerals, argentite, electrum (a naturally-occurring gold and silver alloy) and native silver.
Total capital expenditures at the Martha mine in 2006 were $2.5 million and the Company plans approximately $2.9 million of additional capital expenditures there in 2007.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Martha Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material
Operating Data
(1) Metal prices used in calculating proven and probable reserves were $8.00/ounce of Ag and $475/ounce of Au.
(2) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
(3) The ore reserves are underground minable reserves and include 10 to 25% factors for dilution at zero grade and a mining recovery of 90% to 95%.
(4) Metallurgical recovery factors of 91.9% and 89.0% should be applied to the silver and gold reserve ounces, respectively.
(5) Reserve estimates were prepared by the Company’s technical staff.
(6) Proven and probable reserves are defined by a drill spacing of no more than 25 meters and may include underground production sampling information, especially for proven. In practice, ore reserve blocks are defined by the number of proximal composites and three-dimensional geologic controls. For proven reserves the number of composites must be at least 2 with a maximum search distance of generally 18 meters. For probable, the number of composites must be at least 2 with a maximum search distance of generally 25 meters. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
Australia -Endeavor Mine
The Endeavor Mine is located in north central New South Wales, Australia. Access to the mine is by paved roads 30 miles to the northwest from the community of Cobar.
On May 23, 2005, the Company acquired all of the silver production and reserves, up to a maximum 17.7 million payable ounces, contained at the Endeavor Mine in Australia, which is owned and operated by Cobar Operations Pty. Limited (“Cobar”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBH Resources Ltd. (“CBH”), for $39.1 million. The Endeavor Mine is located 720 km northwest of Sydney in New South Wales and has been in production since 1983. Under the terms of the original agreement, CDE Australia, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Coeur, paid Cobar $15.4 million of cash at the closing. In addition, CDE Australia will pay Cobar approximately $23.7 million upon the receipt of a report confirming that the reserves at the Endeavor mine are equal to or greater than the reported ore reserves for 2004. In addition to these upfront payments, Coeur originally committed to pay Cobar an operating cost contribution of $1.00 for each ounce of payable silver plus a further increment when the silver price exceeds $5.23 per ounce. This further increment was to have begun on the second anniversary of this agreement and is 50% of the amount by which the silver price exceeds $5.23 per ounce. A cost contribution of $0.25 per ounce is also payable by Coeur in respect of new ounces of proven and probable silver reserves as they are discovered.
On March 28, 2006, CDE Australia Pty, Ltd. (CDE Australia), reached an agreement with CBH Resources Ltd. to modify the terms of the original silver purchase agreement. Under the modified terms, CDE Australia owns all silver production and reserves up to a total of 20.0 million ounces, up from 17.7 million ounces in the original agreement. The Company has received approximately 0.7 million payable ounces to date and the current ore reserve contains approximately 15.3 million payable ounces based on current metallurgical recovery and current smelter contract terms. Expansion of the ore reserve will be required to achieve the maximum payable ounces of silver production as set forth in the modified contract. It is expected that future expansion to the ore reserve will occur as a result of the conversion of portions of the property’s existing inventory of mineralized material and future exploration discoveries. CBH conducts regular exploration to discover new mineralization and to define reserves from surface and underground drilling platforms. The silver price-sharing provision is deferred until such time as Coeur has received approximately 2 million cumulative ounces of silver from the mine or June 2007, whichever is later. In addition, the silver price-sharing threshold increased to US$7.00 per ounce, from the previous level of US$5.23 per ounce.
In connection with the modification of the terms of the agreement, CDE Australia agreed to provide CBH with an advance of up to A$15.0 million of the A$30 million that remains to be paid under the terms of the original agreement. The remaining payment from Coeur to CBH is subject to the Endeavor mine achieving certain operational benchmarks. The advance, in the form of a loan facility, will bear interest at 7.75% per annum once drawn by CBH. The term is for a twelve month period with an option for CBH to extend the term for an additional six months. No advances have been drawn under the facility as of December 31, 2006.
The Endeavor mine is an underground lead/zinc/silver mine. Silver, lead, zinc and lesser amounts of copper mineralization at the Endeavor Mine is contained within sulfide lenses hosted in fine-grained sedimentary rocks of the Paleozoic-aged Ampitheatre Group. Sulphide lenses are elliptically-shaped, steeply-dipping to the southwest and strike to the northwest. Principal ore minerals are galena, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Silver occurs with both lead and zinc rich sulphide zones. The mine employs bulk mining methods and utilizes a conventional flotation mill to produce a concentrate that is sold to a third party smelter. Silver recovery averaged approximately 63.5% in 2006 and 45.0% from May 28, 2005 to December 31, 2005.
The reserves at Endeavor are covered by five Consolidated Mining Leases issued by the state of New South Wales to CBH Resource Ltd. The leases form a contiguous block of 10,121 acres in size. The property and equipment are maintained in good working condition, by CBH Resources, through a regular preventive maintenance program and periodic improvements as required. Power to the mine and processing facilities is provided by the grid servicing the local communities. CBH Resources Ltd. conducts regular exploration to define new reserves at the mine from both underground and surface core drilling platforms. For fiscal year 2006/2007 (July - June), the 2007 exploration budget at the mine is A$1.7 million (US$1.3 million). The Company is not required to contribute to ongoing capital costs at the mine.
On October 24, 2005, CBH announced that mining operations at the Endeavor mine had been suspended below the No. Four haulage level following an uncontrolled fall of waste ground into the mine’s 6Z2 crown pillar stope. Limiting production to above this level was done as a safety precaution due to the proximity of the 6Z2 crown pillar stope to the main haulage decline. In late November 2005, CBH announced that mine operations had recommenced below the No. Four haulage level, but at a reduced production rate. Based on the progress made to date in correcting issues related to the ground fall, the Company expects the mine to resume normal operations during 2007.
Production at the Endeavor mine in 2006 was approximately 482,000 ounces of silver compared to 316,000 ounces of silver in 2005. Cash cost per ounce of silver produced was $2.85 in 2006 compared to $2.05 in 2005.
Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Endeavor Mine
Mineralized Material
Operating Data (Coeur’s Share)
(1) Ore reserves are reported as of June 30, 2006, which is the end of the most recent fiscal year of the operator, CBH. Metal prices used were $10.00/ounce of silver.
(2) The ore reserves are underground minable reserves and include an 11% average factor for mining dilution and mining recovery factors ranging from 40% to 100%
(3) Metallurgical recovery factor of 55% should be applied to the silver reserve ounces.
(4) Classification of reserves is based on spacing from drill hole composites to reserve block centers. For proven reserves the maximum distance is 25 meters and for probable reserves it is greater than 25 meters and less than 40 meters. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
(5) The Endeavor property was purchased on May 23, 2005. Operating data is presented commencing as of that date.
(6) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
Australia - Broken Hill Mine
The Broken Hill Mine is located in western New South Wales, Australia. Access to the mine is by paved roads leading from the adjacent community of Broken Hill.
On September 8, 2005, the Company acquired all of the silver production and reserves, up to 17.2 million payable ounces (24.5 million contained ounces), contained at the Broken Hill mine in Australia, which is owned and operated by Perilya Broken Hill Ltd. (“PBH”) for $36.0 million. In addition CDE Australia will pay PBH an operating cost contribution of approximately $2.00 for each ounce of payable silver. Under the terms of the agreement, PBH may earn up to US$6.0 million of additional consideration by meeting certain silver production thresholds over the next eight years. No additional payments were made during 2006.
The Broken Hill mine is an underground lead/zinc/silver mine. Silver, lead and zinc mineralization at Broken Hill is contained within sulfide lenses hosted in metasedimentary and igneous rocks of Precambrian-aged Broken Hill and underlying Thackaringa groups. In general sulphide lenses are tabular in shape steeply dipping to the north-northwest and striking east-northeast. Principal ore minerals are galena, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Silver occurs with both lead- and zinc-rich sulphide zones but is higher grade in the lead zones. The mine uses bulk mining methods and utilizes a conventional flotation mill to produce a concentrate that is sold to third party smelters in Australia. Silver recovery averaged approximately 74.2% in 2006 and 75.4% from September 8, 2005 to December 31, 2005.
While the Company is entitled to all of the silver production and reserves up to a maximum of 17.2 million payable ounces, to date the Company has received 2.6 million payable ounces and the current ore reserve contains approximately 12.4 million payable ounces based on current metallurgical recovery and current smelter contract terms. Expansion of the ore reserve will be required to achieve the maximum payable ounces of silver production as set forth in the contract. It is expected that future expansion to the ore reserves will occur as a result of conversion of portions of the property’s inventory of mineralized material and future exploration discoveries on the property. Perilya conducts regular exploration to discover new mineralization and define reserves from surface and underground drilling platforms. For its fiscal year 2006/2007 (July/June), Perilya has budgeted A$3.5 million (US$2.7 million) for this work. The Company is not required to contribute to ongoing capital costs at the mine.
The reserves at Broken Hill are covered by nine Consolidated Mining Leases issued by the state of New South Wales to Perilya Broken Hill Ltd. The leases form a northeast elongate contiguous block of 18,502 acres in size. The property and equipment are maintained in good working condition by Perilya Broken Hill Ltd., through a regular preventive maintenance program and periodic improvements as required. Power to the mine and processing facilities is provided by the grid servicing the local community. Perilya Broken Hill Ltd. conducts regular exploration to define new reserves, largely from underground core drilling platforms.
The Company’s share of silver production in 2006 from the Broken Hill mine amounted to approximately 2.2 million ounces of silver compared to 657,093 ounces of silver in 2005. The cash cost per ounce of silver production, which includes the operating cost contribution and smelting, refining and transportation costs, was $3.09 in 2006 compared to $2.72 in 2005.
Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Broken Hill Mine
Mineralized Material
Operating Data (Coeur’s share) (3)
(1) Ore reserves are effective as of June 30, 2006. Metal prices used were $10.12/ounce of silver.
(2) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
(3) The ore reserves are underground minable reserves and include factors for mining dilution and recovery. Dilution ranges from 0% to 20% additional tonnage while recovery ranges from 80% to 100% of the diluted tonnage and averages 85%.
(4) Metallurgical recovery factor of 74% should be applied to the silver reserve ounces.
(5) The proven and probable reserves are a combination of zinc, lead and silver mineralization remnant from historic mining and new parts or extensions of the mine. Proven and probable reserves must be accessible as defined by the site specific conditions of the mine. Furthermore, reserves are defined by definition drilling on a grid of 40 meters horizontally by 20 meters vertically and over 70% of the proven reserves are drilled on a 20 meter by 10 meter grid.
(6) The Broken Hill property was purchased on September 8, 2005. Operating data is presented commencing as of that date.
Discontinued Operation - Coeur Silver Valley
On June 1, 2006, the Company completed the sale of 100% of the shares of its wholly-owned subsidiary Coeur Silver Valley, Inc. to U.S. Silver Corporation for $15 million in cash and additional consideration received of $1.1 million for working capital. Coeur Silver Valley was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company which owned and operated the Galena underground silver mine, an operating mine, and the Coeur and Caladay properties, that adjoin to the Galena mine, located in the heart of the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. Coeur Silver Valley’s property consists of 6,131 acres of Company-owned fee land, patented mining claims and unpatented claims in addition to 4,800 acres of leased claims. Coeur Silver Valley’s operations are accessed by paved road from US Interstate 90 south of the town of Wallace, Idaho. Silver Valley recommenced operations at the Coeur mine in June 1996 and continued mining existing reserves there through July 2, 1998 when known reserves were depleted. Silver Valley resumed production at the Galena Mine in May 1997 and operations continued to the date of the sale.
The Galena Mine property is located immediately west of the City of Wallace in Shoshone County in northern Idaho. The property consists of 52 patented mining claims and 25 unpatented mining claims totaling approximately 1,100 acres.
The Galena Mine is an underground silver-copper mine and is served by two vertical shafts. The No. 3 shaft is the primary production shaft and is 5,800 feet deep. The Galena shaft primarily provides utility access for water, electrical power and sand backfill for underground operations down to the 2,400 level.
The mine utilizes conventional and mechanized cut and fill mining methods with sand backfill to extract ore from the high grade silver-copper vein deposits that constitute the majority of the ore reserves. Silver and copper are recovered by a flotation mill that produces a silver rich concentrate which is sold to third-party smelters in Canada. Silver recovery through the mill averaged 96% in 2006, 97% in 2005 and 97% in 2004.
Waste material from the milling process is deposited in a tailings pond located approximately two miles from the minesite. The tailings containment pond, which is expanded on an as needed basis, has capacity for approximately seven additional years at current production rates.
Silver production at the Galena Mine in 2006, up to the date of the sale, was approximately 768,674 ounces of silver versus 2.1 million ounces in 2005. Cash costs for 2006 were $9.75 compared to $8.37 per ounce in 2005. Total capital expenditures by Silver Valley at the Galena Mine in 2006 were $0.6 million.
Silver mineralization at Coeur Silver Valley is hosted in near vertical fracture filling veins that cut through quartzite and argillite of the Upper Revett Formation. Veins consist of siderite with variable amounts of pyrite and quartz. The silver ore minerals are tetrahedrite and argentiferous galena. Lead is contained in galena and copper in tetrahedrite and chalcopyrite.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Galena Mine
Year-end Mineralized Material
Operating Data
(1) Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent a non-U.S.-GAAP measurement that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of its mining operations. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Cash Costs to GAAP Production Costs.”
SILVER AND GOLD DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
Bolivia - San Bartolome Silver Project
The San Bartolome silver development project is located on the flanks of the Cerro Rico mountain near the town of Potosi, Bolivia. Access to the property is by paved and all-weather gravel roads leading south from the adjacent city of Potosi. Coeur acquired 100% of the equity in Empresa Minera Manquiri S.A. (“Manquiri”) from Asarco on September 9, 1999. Manquiri’s principal asset is the mining rights to the San Bartolome project, a silver property located near the city of Potosí, Bolivia, on the flanks of the Cerro Rico Mountain. The silver mineralization is hosted in gravel (pallaco) and reworked gravel (sucu) deposits that occur on the flanks of Cerro Rico. Cerro Rico is a prominent mountain in the region that reaches an elevation of over 15,400 feet. It is composed of Tertiary-aged volcanic and intrusive rocks that were emplaced into and over older sedimentary, basement rocks. Silver, along with tin and base metals, is located in multiple veins that occur in a northeast trending belt that transects Cerro Rico. The upper parts of the Cerro Rico mineralized system was subsequently eroded and redeposited into the flanking pallaco and sucu deposits. Silver is hosted in all portions of the pallacos and sucus with the best grades segregated to the coarser-grained silicified fragments. These deposits lend themselves to simple, free digging surface mining techniques and can be extracted without drilling and blasting. Of the several pallaco deposits which are controlled by Coeur and surround Cerro Rico, three are of primary importance and are known as Huacajchi, Diablo (consisting of Diablo Norte, and Diablo Este) and Santa Rita.
The mineral rights for the San Bartolome project are held through joint venture and long-term lease agreements with several independent mining cooperatives and the Bolivian State Mining Company (“COMIBOL”). Manquiri controls 67 square kilometers under lease from COMIBOL and 16,600 acres under lease from the cooperatives at San Bartolome and approximately 17.8 square miles of concessions at the Khori Huasi property, a gold exploration target south of Potosi. The San Bartolome lease agreements are generally subject to a 4% production royalty payable partially to the cooperatives and partially to COMIBOL. During 2003, the Company acquired additional mining rights known as the Plahipo project which includes the mining rights to oxide dumps adjacent to the original property package. The properties are currently subject to annual payments for these mining rights totaling approximately $2.5 million. Power is supplied to the development activities by the local power utility. Power for the future processing facility will be provided from the national grid via a four-mile high tension line.
Silver was first discovered in the area around 1545. Mining of silver and lesser amounts of tin has been conducted nearly continuously since that time from multiple underground mines driven into Cerro Rico. The Company acquired the rights to the San Bartolome project in May 1999 from ASARCO Incorporated. The prior owner did not conduct any mining or processing of the surface ores at San Bartolome.
We completed a preliminary feasibility study in 2000, which concluded that an open pit mine was potentially capable of producing approximately 6 million ounces of silver annually. In 2003, SRK, an independent consulting firm, was retained to review the reserve/resource estimate to include additional sampling data to incorporate additional resources acquired with the Plahipo project at Cerro Rico. During 2003, we retained Fluor Daniel Wright to prepare an updated feasibility study which was completed at the end of the third quarter of 2004. The study provides for the use of a cyanide milling flow sheet with a wet preconcentration screen circuit which will result in the production of a doré that may be treated by a number of refiners under a tolling agreement which results in the return of refined silver to the Company that is readily marketed by metal banks and brokers to the ultimate customer. Based upon the results of the updated feasibility study, we estimated the capital cost of the project to be approximately $135 million. Based on overall inflation impacting capital costs, the Company now estimates the capital cost (excluding political risk insurance premiums and capitalized interest) at San Bartolome to be approximately $174 million. In the second quarter of 2004, we obtained all operating permits. The Company estimates the cash cost of production in the initial four years to average approximately $4.00 per ounce of silver produced.
As a result of political unrest occurring in Bolivia during 2005, the Company reduced capital expenditures. In the second half of 2006, the Company determined conditions had improved to the point that full-scale construction and development were commenced. Based on the current development schedule, the Company believes that commercial production could begin in early 2008.
Coeur expended approximately $14.6 million in 2006 and plans to incur construction costs of approximately $119.4 million in 2007.
The San Bartolome project involves risks that are inherent in any mining venture, as well as particular risks associated with the location of the project. The estimate of mineralized material indicated by the geologic studies performed to date are preliminary in nature and may differ materially after further metallurgical testing is completed. Also, managing mining projects in the altiplano area of Bolivia, where Cerro Rico is located, presents logistical challenges. The political and cultural differences of Bolivia may also present challenges.
We have obtained a political risk insurance policy from the Overseas Private Insurance Corporation (“OPIC”) and a private insurer. The combined policies are in the amount of $155 million and covers 85% of any loss arising from expropriation, political violence or currency inconvertibility. The policies are expected to cost approximately $3.4 million during the course of construction and $0.21 per ounce of silver produced when the project commences commercial production.
Year-end Probable Ore Reserves - San Bartolome Project
Year-end Mineralized Material - San Bartolome Project
(1) Metal prices used in calculating proven and probable reserves were $6.00 per ounce of silver.
(2) The ore reserves are open pit minable reserves and include an average 10% factor for mining dilution and 97% for mining recovery.
(3) An average metallurgical recovery factor of 61.3% should be applied to the mined silver reserve ounces.
(4) Reserve estimates were prepared by the Company’s technical staff.
(5) Proven and probable reserves are defined by surface sampling - drill holes or vertical shafts - with an average spacing of no more than 70 meters. In practice, ore reserve blocks are defined by the number of proximal composites and three-dimensional geologic controls. For probable reserves, the number of composites must be at least 8 with a maximum search distance of less than 275 meters. San Bartolome has only probable reserves. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
Alaska - Kensington Gold Project
The Kensington gold development project, consisting of the Kensington and adjacent Jualin properties, is located on the east side of the Lynn Canal about 45 miles north-northwest of Juneau, Alaska. The mine will be an underground gold mine accessed by a horizontal tunnel and will utilize conventional and mechanized underground mining methods. The ore will be processed in a flotation mill that produces a concentrate which will be sold to third party smelters. Waste material will be deposited in an impoundment facility on the property. Power is supplied to the site by on-site diesel generators. Access to the project is presently by helicopter, float plane or boat from Juneau.
The Kensington property, which contains the project’s reserves, consists of over 6,100 acres of patented and unpatented federal mining claims and state claims. The adjacent Jualin property to the south consists of 9,236 acres of patented and unpatented federal mining claims and state claims.
On July 7, 1995, Coeur, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Coeur Alaska, Inc. (“Coeur Alaska”), acquired the 50% ownership interest of Echo Bay Exploration Inc. (“Echo Bay”) in the Kensington property from Echo Bay and Echo Bay Alaska, Inc. (collectively the “Sellers”), giving Coeur 100% ownership of the Kensington property. The Kensington project consists of approximately 6,000 acres, of which approximately 750 acres are patented claims. The property is located on the east side of Lynn Canal between Juneau and Haines, Alaska. Coeur Alaska is obligated to pay Echo Bay a scaled net smelter return royalty on 1.0 million ounces of future gold production after Coeur Alaska recoups the $32.5 million purchase price and its construction and development expenditures incurred after July 7, 1995 in connection with placing the property into commercial production. The royalty ranges from 1% at $400 gold prices to a maximum of 2 ½% at gold prices above $475, with the royalty to be capped at 1.0 million ounces of production.
In the second quarter of 2004, we completed an updated feasibility study based on an alternative operating scenario which would eliminate the need for a man camp, simplify operating logistics and focus mining on higher-grade areas of the deposit (thereby reducing significantly the size of the mill facilities). This plan significantly reduced capital and operating costs while preserving the ability to expand production as market conditions warrant. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company received its final construction permits and updated the construction and operating cost estimates set forth in the feasibility study. Due to a general increase in commodity prices impacting the industry in general, the Company retained an independent engineering firm to review its capital cost estimate during the fourth quarter of 2005. As a result of the costs associated with the challenges to the project’s permits of $29.8 million and the general increase in labor and commodity prices of $18.6 million, the Company currently estimates the total cost of construction to be approximately $238 million as compared with the previous cost estimate of $190 million. The Company believes that commercial production could commence in late 2007, subject to successful resolution of the permitting and litigation issues described below. The Company expects the per ounce cash cost of production to be approximately $310 in the initial years of operation.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, the U.S. Forest Service issued its Record of Decision (“ROD”) for the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (“FSEIS”). An environmental group, Southeast Alaska Conservation Council (“SEACC”), and a group of other community and private environmental groups, appealed the issuance of the ROD. On March 23, 2005, the US Forest Service upheld the decision to approve the FSEIS. On June 28, 2005, the Company received the Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) Permit. In addition, the Company received the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“Corps of Engineers”) 404 Wetlands Permit, which authorized the construction of a Lower Slate Lake tailings facility, millsite road improvements and a Slate Creek Cove dock facility. All permits were reviewed for consistency by both the Alaska Coastal Management and Department of Governmental Coordination, which issued its final permit certification.
On September 12, 2005 three environmental groups (“Plaintiffs”) filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Alaska against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“Corps of Engineers”) and the U.S. Forest Service (“USFS”) seeking to invalidate the permit issued to Coeur Alaska for the Company’s Kensington mine. The Plaintiffs claim the Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 404 permit issued by the Corps of Engineers authorizing the deposition of mine tailings into Lower Slate Lake conflicts with the CWA. They additionally claim the USFS’s approval of the Amended Plan of Operations is arbitrary and capricious because it relies on the 404 permit issued by the Corps of Engineers.
On November 8, 2005, the Corps of Engineers filed a Motion for Voluntary Remand with the court to review the permit issued to the Company under the CWA Section 404 and requested that the court stay the legal proceeding filed by the Plaintiffs pending the outcome of review. On November 12, 2005, the Federal District Court in Alaska granted the remand of the permit to the Corps of Engineers for further review. On November 22, 2005, the Corps of Engineers advised the Company that it was suspending the Section 404 permit pursuant to the Court’s remand to further review the permit.
On March 29, 2006, the Corps of Engineers reinstated the Company’s 404 permit. On April 6, 2006 the lawsuit challenging the permit was re-opened, and Coeur Alaska filed its answer to the Amended Complaint and Motion to Intervene as a Defendant-Intervenor in the action. Two other parties, the State of Alaska and Goldbelt, Inc., a local native corporation, also filed Motions to Intervene as Defendant-Intervenors as supporters of the Kensington project as permitted. The Company, the State of Alaska and Goldbelt, Inc. were granted Defendant-Intervenor status and joined the agencies in their defense of the permits as issued.
On August 4, 2006, the Federal District Court in Alaska dismissed the Plaintiffs’ challenge and upheld the Section 404 permit. On August 7, 2006 the Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal of the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (“Circuit Court”) and on August 9, 2006 Plaintiffs additionally filed a Motion for Injunction Pending Appeal with the Circuit Court. The Circuit Court granted a temporary injunction pending appeal on August 24, 2006, enjoining certain activities relating to the lake tailings facility. The Circuit Court further ordered an expedited briefing schedule on the merits of the legal challenge. As of October 13, 2006, the parties filed their briefs in the Circuit Court and participated in an oral argument on December 4, 2006. There is no indication of when the Circuit Court may rule on the merits on appeal. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the litigation or the impact of the temporary injunction. The Company cannot predict when the court will rule on the merits on appeal in the Circuit Court or the impact upon the project.
No assurance can be given as to whether or when regulatory permits and approvals granted to the Company may be further challenged, appealed or contested by third parties or issuing agencies, or as to whether the Company will place the Kensington project into commercial production.
During 2006, the Company invested $121.6 million in connection with the development of the mine. The Company plans to spend approximately $77.7 million on the project during 2007.
The Kensington ore deposit consists of multiple precious metals bearing mesothermal, quartz, carbonate, pyrite vein swarms and discrete quartz-pyrite veins hosted in the Cretaceous age Jualin diorite. The gold-telluride-mineral calaverite is associated with the pyrite mineralization.
Year-end Proven and Probable Ore Reserves - Kensington Property
Year-end Mineralized Material
(1) A gold price of $550 per ounce was used to determine ore reserves.
(2) The ore reserves are underground minable reserves and include factors for mining dilution and recovery. An allowance of 25.6% additional tonnage at 0.124 ounce per ton is included for internal dilution. A factor for external dilution, averaging 10.2% at 0.056 ounces per ton, is also included. An average 97% factor for mining recovery is included.
(3) Average metallurgical recovery factor of 95.3% should be applied to the contained gold reserve ounces.
(4) Reserve estimates were prepared by the Company’s technical staff. Snowden Mining Industry Consultants, an independent consultant group, performed an independent review of the Company’s updated resource estimate model used to prepare the ore reserve estimates.
(5) The Kensington gold development project contains only probable reserves. The reserves are defined with over 408,000 feet of core drilling, largely from underground drilling fans, and 27,000 feet of underground workings. In practice, reserve blocks are defined by the number of proximal composites and three-dimensional geologic controls. Probable reserve blocks must at least 2 drill holes spaced not more than 60 feet from the block center. Mineralized material is similarly classified.
Not all Kensington ore zones have been fully delineated internally, or at depth or on strike and several peripheral zones and veins remain to be explored. In 2006, the Company continued the exploration program started in the third quarter of 2005 designed to increase the size and geologic continuity of gold mineralization in its mineralized material inventory and ultimately result in an increase in ore reserves. At Kensington, Coeur Alaska completed 34,035 ft of drilling during the second half of 2005 and an additional 32,249 ft of drilling in 2006. For the year, a total of $1.5 million was spent on this developmental program. As a result of this program, ore reserves increased by approximately 29% to 1.35 million ounces of gold.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
Coeur, either directly or through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns, leases and has interests in certain exploration-stage mining properties located in the United States, Chile, Argentina, Tanzania and Bolivia. Exploration and mine development expenditures of approximately $9.5 million, $10.6 million and $8.0 million were incurred by the Company in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
US - Kensington/Jualin
The Company possesses the right to develop the Jualin property, an exploratory property located adjacent to the Kensington Property. A combined total of 18,667 feet of exploration drilling was completed in 2005 and 2006 at Jualin. The Company plans for an aggressive drilling program for 2007 to follow up on the encouraging results from these programs. The Company’s rights to use and develop the Jualin property are subject to an Amended Lease Agreement dated August 5, 2005 between Hyak Mining Company Inc. as Lessor and Coeur Alaska Inc. as Lessee which expires in August 2020 with provision for lease extension. Approximately $0.9 million was spent in exploration in 2006.
Chile - Cerro Bayo Mine
Coeur continued to have exploration success at its 100%-owned Cerro Bayo gold/silver mining operation in southern Chile. Approximately $5.3 million was spent in exploration, of which $2.6 million was capitalized as mine development during 2006. A total of nearly 232,000 feet of core drilling was completed during the year to discover new mineral resources and define new mineral reserves. The majority of this work was devoted to expansion and definition of ore reserves at the recently discovered Marcela Sur and Cascada vein systems.
The Company believes that there is potential to discover additional high grade veins within the entire Cerro Bayo district, which is over 13.6 miles east-west by 7.5 miles north-south. The exploration budget for 2007 is estimated to be $4.7 million.
Argentina - Martha Mine
In 2006, the Company’s efforts consisted of mapping, sampling and nearly 87,000 feet of core and reverse circulation drilling for a total expenditure of $3.6 million, of which $0.7 million was capitalized as mine development. An ongoing drill program during 2007 is planned near to the Martha mine totaling approximately $3.0 million to explore for additional high-grade veins.
Argentina - Other Properties
The Company also continued reconnaissance in Santa Cruz Province where its activities resulted in identification and acquisition of four new exploration-stage properties believed to be prospective for silver and gold mineralization. These properties consist of the El Aguila, Sol de Mayo (Costa), Sascha and Joaquin. El Aguila and Sol del Mayo are controlled by private Argentine interest. The Company has the right to purchase both properties from the owners, who will retain a production royalty, after completion of staged work and payment obligations. Sascha and Joaquin are controlled by Mirasol Resources Ltd. a publicly-traded, Canadian exploration company. Coeur has the right to earn up to a 71% managing interest in a joint venture with Mirasol in return for staged work and payment obligations. The Company plans to continue to map, sample and drill targets on its new holdings in 2007 and has budgeted $2.6 million for these activities.
Tanzania, Africa
During the first quarter of 2004, the Company acquired ten prospecting licenses for properties located in the Lake Victoria Gold Belt of Tanzania, Africa and in 2005 added an eleventh, Saragurwa. Except for Saragurwa, which is owned by a private Tanzanian interest, all properties are held 100% by a Tanzanian subsidiary of the Company via prospecting or primary mining license provisions of the Tanzania Mining Code.
During 2006, initial exploration work consisted of mapping, trenching, sampling and acquisition and interpretation of detailed airborne geophysical data. As a result of this work, a large zone of anomalous gold-in-soil values, measuring over 1.2 miles long in an east-west orientation, by over 0.3 miles wide was defined on the Kiziba Hill property, a 105 square kilometer sized property which lies on the same belt of Archean-aged rocks, commonly termed “greenstone”, which host the Geita gold mine to the east. Greenstones, a mixture of volcanic, sedimentary and intrusive rocks, are a major host to gold mineralization around the globe. Gold anomalies were also defined on the Bunda 1 property to the northeast of the city of Mwanza.
In 2006, over 44,000 feet of shallow, rotary air blast drilling was conducted over the gold-in-soil anomalies at Kiziba Hill. This work verified the bedrock source of the surface gold anomalies and aided in producing a map of the bedrock beneath the laterite cover, which in places reached over 75 feet in thickness. Basal rotary air blast gold anomalies are spatially coincident with contacts between volcanic rocks and later intrusive rocks of felsic (granitic) composition and along major east-wet shear/fault zones. In December 2006, core drilling commenced on the Saragurwa option property and will continue into 2007.
During 2006, the Company spent $1.4 million on exploration activities in Tanzania and expects to spend approximately $1.8 million in 2007.
SILVER AND GOLD PRICES
The Company’s operating results are substantially dependent upon the world market prices of silver and gold. The Company has no control over silver and gold prices, which can fluctuate widely. The volatility of such prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth the high and low prices of silver (as reported by Handy and Harman) and gold (London Final) per ounce during the periods indicated:
MARKETING
The Company markets its metals products and concentrates primarily to bullion trading banks and third party smelters. These customers then sell the metals to end users for use in industry applications such as electronic circuitry, jewelry and silverware production and the manufacture and development of photographic film. Sales of metals to bullion trading banks amounted to approximately 47%, 45% and 59% of total sales of metals in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and sales of metal concentrates to third party smelters amounted to approximately 53%, 55% and 41% of total metal sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Generally, the loss of a single bullion trading bank customer would not adversely affect the Company in view of the liquidity of the product and availability of alternative trading banks. In 2006, the Company had sales of concentrates to two third-party smelters, Met-Mex Penoles and Zinifex, which each constituted 10% or more of the Company’s total metal sales. A significant delay or disruption as the result of a disruption in the Company’s contracts could have a materially adverse effect on our operations if we were unable to locate an alternate smelter to treat our concentrates.
The Company had no future silver or gold production hedged at December 31, 2006 and has no plans to hedge its silver in the future. Coeur has historically sold the gold from its mines both pursuant to forward contracts and at spot prices prevailing at the time of sale. Silver has been sold at spot prices prevailing at the time of sale.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
General
The Company’s commitment to environmental responsibility has been recognized in 24 awards received since 1987, which included the Dupont/Conoco Environmental Leadership Award, awarded to the Company on October 1, 1991 by a judging panel that included representatives from environmental organizations and the federal government, the “Star” award granted on June 23, 1993 by the National Environmental Development Association, and the Environmental Waikato Regional Council award for Golden Cross environmental initiative granted on May 15, 1995 and in March 2004 the Habitat Restoration Award from the Nevada Division of Wildlife for developing habitat at the Rochester mine. In 1994, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and in 1997, the Company’s Vice President of Environmental and Governmental Affairs, were awarded the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers’ Environmental Conservation Distinguished Service Award. In 2006, the Company’s Kensington Gold Project was awarded the prestigious 2006 Hardrock Mineral Community Outreach and Economic Security Award presented by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in recognition of responsible mineral resource development while demonstrating an understanding of sustainable development.
The Company’s activities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws governing the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Although the Company is usually involved in regulatory proceedings for renewal or reissuance of various permits, such regulations have never caused the Company to close any mine. The costs associated with compliance with such regulatory requirements are substantial and possible future legislation and regulations could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the development and continued operation of the Company’s properties, the extent of which cannot be predicted. In the context of environmental permitting, including the approval of reclamation plans, the Company must comply with known standards and regulations which may entail significant costs and delays. Although Coeur has been recognized for its commitment to environmental responsibility and believes it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, amendments to current laws and regulations, the more stringent implementation thereof through judicial review or administrative action or the adoption of new laws could have a materially adverse effect upon the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company expended $5.6 million, $4.9 million and $4.2 million, respectively, in connection with routine environmental compliance activities at its operating properties and expects to expend approximately $4.0 million for that purpose in 2007. Future environmental expenditures will be determined by governmental regulations and the overall scope of the Company’s operating and development activities.
Federal Environmental Laws
Certain mining wastes from extraction and beneficiation of ores are currently exempt from the extensive set of Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) regulations governing hazardous waste, although such wastes may be subject to regulation under state law as a solid or hazardous waste. The EPA has worked on a program to regulate these mining wastes pursuant to its solid waste management authority under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”). Certain ore processing and other wastes are currently regulated as hazardous wastes by the EPA under RCRA. If the Company’s mine wastes were treated as hazardous waste or such wastes resulted in operations being designated as a “Superfund” site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) for cleanup, material expenditures would be required for the construction of additional waste disposal facilities or for other remediation expenditures. Under CERCLA, any present owner or operator of a Superfund site or an owner or operator at the time of its contamination generally may be held liable and may be forced to undertake remedial cleanup action or to pay for the government’s cleanup efforts. Additional regulations or requirements may also be imposed upon the Company’s tailings and waste disposal in Alaska under the Federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and state law counterparts, and in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA. Air emissions are subject to controls under Nevada’s and Alaska’s air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act.
Proposed Mining Legislation
Legislation has been introduced regularly in the U.S. Congress over the last decade to change the Mining Law of 1872 as amended under which the Company holds unpatented mining claims on federal lands. A significant portion of the Company’s U.S. mining properties are on unpatented mining claims on federal lands. It is possible that the Mining Law may be amended or be replaced by more onerous legislation in the future. Previously proposed legislation contained a production royalty obligation, new environmental standards and conditions, additional reclamation requirements and extensive new procedural steps which would be likely to result in delays in permitting. In addition, the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management have considered revising regulations governing operations under the Mining Law on federal lands they administer, which, if implemented, may result in additional procedures and environmental conditions and standards on those lands.
Any reform of the Mining Law or Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service regulations thereunder based on these initiatives could increase the costs of mining activities on unpatented mining claims, or could materially impair the ability of the Company to develop or continue operations which derive ore from federal lands, and as a result could have an adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. Until such time, if any, as new reform legislation or regulations are enacted, the ultimate effects and costs of compliance on the Company cannot be estimated.
Foreign Government Regulations
The mining properties of the Company that are located in Chile and Argentina are subject to various government laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the air, surface water, ground water and the environment in general, as well as the health of the work force, labor standards and the socioeconomic impacts of mining facilities upon the communities. A recently established State Council for the Environment (CODEMA) has responsibility to define policy, approve plans and programs, control regulatory activities and enforce compliance. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations to which it is subject in Chile and Argentina.
The Republic of Bolivia, where the San Bartolome project is located, has adopted laws and guidelines for environmental permitting that are similar to those in effect in the United States and other South American countries. The permitting process requires a thorough study to determine the baseline condition of the mining site and surrounding area, an environmental impact analysis, and proposed mitigation measures to minimize and offset the environmental impact of mining operations. The Company has received all permits required to build and operate the San Bartolome mine.
The Company does not directly hold any interest in mining properties in Australia. However, under the respective Silver Sale Agreements with CBH Resources Limited and Perilya Broken Hill Limited, the Company has purchased the silver reserves and resources in the ground of these mining companies. These two companies are responsible for the mining operation and compliance with government regulations and the Company is not responsible for compliance. The Company is however at risk for any production stoppages resulting from non-compliance. The mining properties of CBH and Perilya are subject to a range of state and federal government laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the air, surface water, ground water, noise, site rehabilitation and the environment in general, as well as the occupational health and safety of the work force, labor standards and the socio-economic impacts of mining facilities among local communities. In addition, the various federal and state native title legislation recognizes and protects the rights and interests in Australia of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in land and waters, according to their traditional laws and customs, and may restrict mining and exploration activity and/or result in additional costs. CBH and Perilya are required to deal with a number of governmental departments in development and exploitation of their respective mining properties. The Company is not aware of any substantial non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations to which its partners are subject in Australia.
Maintenance of Claims
United States
At mining properties in the United States, including the Rochester and Kensington mines, operations are conducted in part upon unpatented mining claims, as well as patented mining claims. Pursuant to applicable federal law it is necessary, in order to maintain the unpatented claims, to pay to the Secretary of the Interior, on or before August 31 of each year, a claim maintenance fee of $125 per claim. This claim maintenance fee is in lieu of the assessment work requirement contained in the Mining Law. In addition, in Nevada, holders of unpatented mining claims are required to pay the county recorder of the county in which the claim is situated an annual fee of $3.50 per claim. No maintenance fees are payable for patented claims. Patented claims are similar to land held by an owner who is entitled to the entire interest in the property with unconditional power of disposition.
Chile
In Chile, operations are conducted upon mineral concessions granted by the national government. For exploitation concessions (somewhat similar to a U.S. patented claim), to maintain the concession, an annual tax is payable to the government before March 31 of each year in the approximate amount of $1.14 per hectare. For exploration concessions, to maintain the right, the annual tax is approximately $0.30 per hectare. An exploration concession is valid for a five-year period. It may be renewed for new periods unless a third party claims the right to explore upon the property, in which event the exploration concession must be converted to an exploitation concession in order to maintain the rights to the concession.
Argentina
Minerals are owned by the Argentine government, which allows individual provinces to impose a maximum 3% mine-mouth royalty on mineral production. The first step in acquiring mining rights is filing a cateo, which gives exclusive prospecting rights for the requested area for a period of time, generally up to 3 years. Maximum size of each cateo is 10,000 hectares; a maximum of 20 cateos can be held by a single entity (individual or company) in any one province.
The holder of a cateo has exclusive right to establish a Manifestation of Discovery (“MD”) on that cateo, but MD’s can also be set without a cateo on any land not covered by someone else’s cateo. MDs are filed as either a vein or disseminated discovery. A square protection zone can be declared around the discovery - up to 840 hectares for vein MD or up to 7,000 hectares for a disseminated MD. The protection zone grants the discoverer exclusive rights for an indefinite period, during which the discoverer must provide an annual report presenting a program of exploration work and investments related to the protection zone. A MD can later be upgraded to a Mina (mining claim), which give the holder the right to begin commercial extraction of minerals.
Bolivia
The Bolivian national mining company, Corporacion Minera Bolivia (“Comibol”), is the underlying owner of all of the mining rights relating to the San Bartolome project, with the exception of the Thuru property, which is owned by the Cooperativa Reserva Fiscal, a local miners cooperative. Comibol’s ownership derives from the Supreme Decree 3196 in October 1952, when the government nationalized most of the mines in Potosi, except for Thuru. Except for Thuru, Comibol has leased the mining rights for the surface sucu or pallaco gravel deposits to several Potosi cooperatives. The cooperatives in turn have subleased their mining rights to Manquiri through a series of “joint venture” contracts. In addition to those agreements with the cooperatives, Coeur, through its subsidiary Manquiri, holds additional mining rights under lease agreements. All of Manquiri’s mining and surface rights collectively constitute the San Bartolome project.
Australia
At mining properties in Australia operated by CBH Resources Limited and Perilya Broken Hill Limited, operations are conducted on designated Mining Leases issued by the relevant state government mining department. Mining Leases are issued for a specific term and include a range of environmental and other conditions including the payment of production royalties, annual lease fees and the use of cash or a bank guarantee as security for reclamation liabilities. The amounts required to be paid to secure reclamation liabilities are determined on a case by case basis. In addition, both CBH Resources Limited and Perilya Broken Hill Limited hold a range of exploration titles permits which are also issued by the respective state government mining departments for specified terms and require payment of annual fees and completion of designated expenditure programs on the leases to maintain title. In Australia, minerals in the ground are owned by the state until severed from the ground through mining operations.
EMPLOYEES
The number of full-time employees at December 31, 2006 of Coeur d’Alene Mines Corporation and its subsidiaries was:
(1) The Company maintains two labor agreements in South America, consisting of a labor agreement with Syndicato de Trabajadores de Compañía Minera Cerro Bayo Ltd. at its Cerro Bayo mine in Chile and with Associacion Obrera Minera Argentina at its Martha mine in Argentina. The agreement at Cerro Bayo is effective from December 22, 2005 to December 21, 2007 and the agreement at Mina Martha is effective from June 12, 2006 to June 11, 2008. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately 20% of its worldwide labor force covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Item 3.