ITEM 2 Properties
Our headquarters and administrative offices are located at 4550 California Avenue, Suite 600, Bakersfield, California 93309. We lease approximately 10,300 square feet of office space at that location. Our principal properties consist of proven and unproven oil and gas properties, mining claims on unproven precious metals properties, maps and geologic records related to prospective oil and gas and unproven precious metal properties, office and other equipment.
Oil and Gas Operations
In 2005, Tri-Valley acquired several oil and gas properties and transferred them to the Opus-I Partnership for development. Tri-Valley receives a 25% carried working interest in the initial wells drilled on these properties and any initial reworks of existing wells and will then pay its 25% pro rata share of subsequent development drilling and operations on the properties. The following properties are part of the Opus-1 Partnership: 1) Temblor Valley West, 2) Temblor Valley East, 3) Pleasant Valley, 4) Moffat Ranch, 5) and major interest in the Ekho No. 1 and the Sunrise Natural Gas Project.
Temblor Valley West/South Belridge Field: Our South Belridge lease includes 50 wells, 28 producing, 18 idle and 4 injector wells, plus five new drill wells over the last two years, the Lundin-Weber D352-30, D540-30, D344-30, D188-30, and D24-30 which served to extend the known oil bearing formations to the west by over a half mile. The latter three wells were drilled in 2007. In mid-2007, two of these wells, D-352-30 and D-344-30, supported a regulatory-approved cyclic steam stimulation pilot in the Diatomite zone utilizing two of our recently refurbished, and company owned steam generators. A small-scale waterflood pilot in the Etchegoin formation was also initiated
in mid-2007 including the conversion of two wells to injector service to evaluate incremental recovery potential and water movement prior to a planned waterflood expansion. Well test facilities were also installed and upgraded in 2007 to support the evaluation of pilot project production. Several idle wells were also returned to production in 2007, which included remedial well work to upgrade several wellbores to support our pilot operations.
In 2008, we continued to further evaluate the waterflood potential via sustained and filtered injection and the injection of radioactive tracers to pinpoint water movement and waterflood efficiency. We worked on a detailed design to expand the waterflood operation. The objective of the water flood is the potential recovery of some 2.5 million barrels of oil from the Etchegoin zone. In 2008, we did additional Diatomite cyclic steaming operations of uphole intervals and production tests on other Etchegoin and Tulare formations in our five most recently drilled wells. If results from our waterflood and/or cyclic steaming projects are favorable, additional drilling and facility upgrades in the field and procurement of a permanent water or steam source may follow. In 2009 we plan a steam test of the top of the Tulare Zone.
Temblor Valley East/Edison Oil Field: This property consists of four separate leases in the Edison and Edison Grove Fields consisting of 31 total wells. It includes the Shields & Arms area, consisting of 7 wells including 3 producers, 1 injector, and 3 idle wells. In late 2007, all three current producers were restored to full-time production service and water injection was diverted to lower intervals to boost production. In 2009, we plan to continue to restore production to the other producing leases which include 24 idle wells.
Pleasant Valley: This property lies in Ventura County in the Oxnard Oil Field in an area we call Pleasant Valley. During 2007, we initiated thermal development of the heavy oil Upper Vaca Tar Sands by commencing the drilling of seven additional horizontal wells completing the drilling in April 2008 followed by initiating cyclic steam production operations on the wells and steaming them on a cyclical basis. After several such steam/soak/produce cycles, some of the well bores produced at short term test rates over 1,000 barrels of oil per day and are presently constrained until infrastructure and handling facilities can be expanded.
Moffat Ranch: This gas field is located in the southern area of the California gas country in Madera County approximately 2.5 hours by auto north of our Bakersfield, CA headquarters. Upon acquisition, this field consisted of three idle wellbores and deeper drilling potential. In late 2007, the Company drilled the deepest wellbore penetration in the field, to below 10,000 feet, to evaluate more than 14 potential producing horizons. Two of these potential gas zones were evaluated for productive potential in 2007 and one was successfully tested at over one million cubic feet per day. In 2008 the well was put into production. In 2008 we attempted to restore the three idle wells to production service but, so far, they sand up quickly and have not sustained commercial production.
Chowchilla Ranch Gas Field: We purchased approximately 6,670 acres of mineral rights, which basically covers what was the Chowchilla Ranch in Madera County, California. This land position is held by production at this time. We believe this land to be very under developed and under exploited. We plan to re-enter, recomplete and further infill drill the leasehold position. We have also leased approximately 7,500 additional acres offsetting the 6,670 acre Chowchilla property.
Ekho: In 2005, we successfully hydraulically fractured the Ekho #1 well in the Vedder Zone of completion in the interval between 18,018 feet and 18,525 feet injecting approximately 5,000 barrels of fluid, which carried approximately 118,000-pounds of bauxite propping material. While very successful mechanically, the operation did not result in the well producing hydrocarbons at commercial rates. This well still has multiple targets to evaluate further up the hole. We have been reviewing the resulting data from the fracturing operation both internally and with outside firms and believe the potential reserve of the Vedder Zone cannot be commercially produced. Accordingly, we plan to come up hole and complete the next oil-bearing zone, the Santos Shale from 17,500 feet to 18,000 feet as funds permit.
Sunrise-Mayel: Also in 2005, we successfully hydraulically fractured a 1,000 feet portion of the 3,000 feet horizontal portion of the well bore in the Sunrise-Mayel #2H Redrill #2 well in the Sunrise Natural Gas Project in Delano, California. The well was hydraulically fractured utilizing gelled diesel, which carried in approximately 138,000 pounds of sand. Again, while mechanically successful, the operation did not result in the well producing hydrocarbons at commercial rates. As with the Ekho Project, we continue to review all available techniques to bring the Sunrise Project potential to commercial realization because of the volume of natural gas in place in the tight
reservoir. The Sunrise project is included in the joint study with the scientific research organization. We believe the tight McClure Shale which hosts an estimated 3 trillion cubic feet of gas in the mapped area of closure can ultimately be stimulated to release a portion of the gas in place at commercial rates once the right method is identified.
We hold approximately 17,000 acres in Nevada, all chosen from proprietary data as prospective for oil and gas exploration. We have producing interests in gas fields in the Sacramento Valley of Northern California including the Rio Vista and Dutch Slough Gas Fields. In 2007, we performed remedial rig work on the top Rio Vista producing well, which served to more than double historical production rates from the well/field. Our 2009 plans include additional work on our Rio Vista gas wells to boost gas production.
Other key operational activity in 2008 included the ongoing procurement and refurbishment of a steam generator fleet, which now includes 18 units, to support our thermal, heavy oil developments. Four of these units were restored to field-ready status and have been mobilized and used in our field developments at Pleasant Valley in the Oxnard Oil Field. Our fleet of production rigs was sold to Excalibur Well Services for cash and a preferred alliance.
The trend of demand of petroleum products outstripping available supplies has been interrupted by the global downturn in the last half of 2008, including California which currently imports nearly 60% of its oil and nearly 90% of its natural gas. This is all reflected in the extreme spiraling up and down price trend in 2008. We believe the overall long-term price trend is up.
We do not own any bulk storage facilities or refineries. We own a small segment of an inactive pipeline in Tracy, California.
We have retained the services of Cecil Engineering, an independent petroleum engineer qualified to estimate our net share of proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves on all of our oil and gas properties at December 31, 2008 for SEC filing. For 2008, our independent engineer prepared an oil and gas reserve report using guidelines established by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission for valuation of oil and gas reserves. Price is a material factor in our stated reserves, because higher prices permit relatively higher-cost reserves to be produced economically. Higher prices generally permit longer recovery, hence larger reserves at higher values. Conversely, lower prices generally limit recovery to lower-cost reserves, hence smaller reserves. The process of estimating oil and gas reserve quantities is inherently imprecise. Ascribing monetary values to those reserves, therefore, yields imprecise estimated data.
Our estimated future net recoverable oil and gas reserves from proved developed properties as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
Using year-end oil and gas prices and current levels of lease operating expenses, the estimated present value of the future net revenue to be derived from our proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves, discounted at 10%, was $1,746,259 at December 31, 2008, $12,324,390 at December 31, 2007, and $6,121,295 at December 31, 2006. The precipitous drop in oil reported reserves was due to the collapse of oil prices in the second half of 2008, which caused proven producing reserves on our currently producing oil wells to be written down to zero in the reserve report.
On December 31, 2008, the SEC issued Release No. 33-8995 amending its oil and natural gas reporting requirements for oil and natural gas producing companies. The effective date of the new accounting and disclosure requirements is for annual reports filed for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. Among other things Release No. 33-8995:
•
Revises a number of definitions relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves to make them consistent with the Petroleum Resource Management System, which includes certain non-traditional resources in proved reserves.
•
Permits the use of new technologies for determining proved oil and natural gas reserves.
•
Requires the use of average prices for the trailing twelve-month period in the estimation of oil and natural gas reserve quantities and for companies using the full cost method of accounting, in computing the Ceiling Limitation, in place of a single day price as of the end of the fiscal year.
•
Permits the disclosure in filings with the SEC of probable and possible reserves and reserves sensitivity to changes in prices.
•
Requires additional disclosures (outside of the financial statements) regarding the status of undeveloped reserves and changes in status of these from period to period.
•
Requires a discussion of the internal controls in place to assure objectivity in the reserve estimation process and disclosure of the technical qualifications of the technical person having primarily responsibility for preparing the reserve estimates.
Companies are not permitted to use the new SEC requirements for fiscal years ending prior to December 31, 2009. We have evaluated the effect of the adoption of the final rule will have on our financial statements and oil and natural gas reserve estimates and disclosures. Based on a review by our independent petroleum engineer, we believe that, if the new requirements had been in effect for our fiscal 2008, our reported natural gas and crude oil reserves would have been substantially higher than those reported under the currently applied SEC standards. Notably, the use of trailing twelve month average prices instead of year end prices would have dramatically increased the value of our reserves. In fiscal 2008, the prices we received for oil production varied from a high of $123.13 per barrel to a low of $26.15 per barrel, with the year end price on which reserves were calculated being $30.126 per barrel.
The unaudited supplemental information attached to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on oil and gas reserves and estimated values.
The following table sets forth the net quantities of natural gas and crude oil that we produced during:
The following table sets forth our average sales price and average production (lifting) cost per unit of oil and gas produced during:
* Amount represents total sales price of associated condensate, unable to determine production cost per barrel.
As of December 31, 2008, we had the following gross and net position in wells and developed acreage:
All of our producing wells and acres where the Company has a working interest are located within California.
(1)
"Gross" wells represent the total number of producing wells in which we have a working interest. "Net" wells represent the number of gross producing wells multiplied by the percentages of the working interests, which we own. "Net wells" recognizes only those wells in which we hold an earned working interest. Working interests earned at payout have not been included.
(2)
"Gross" acres represent the total acres in which we have a working interest; "net" acres represent the aggregate of the working interests, which we own in the gross acres.
The following table sets forth the number of productive and dry exploratory and development wells which we drilled during:
The following table sets forth information regarding undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we had an interest on December 31, 2008:
State
Gross Acres
Net Acres
California
26,111
22,160
Nevada
15,634
15,634
Our undeveloped acreage is held pursuant to leases from landowners. Such leases have varying dates of execution and generally expire one to five years after the date of the lease. In the next three years, the following lease gross acreage expires:
Expires in 2009
1,305 acres
Expires in 2010
21,884 acres
Expires in 2011
3,132 acres
Mineral Properties
Select Resources currently possesses two types of properties, metal properties and industrial mineral properties. The metal properties, as currently understood, derive most of their value from their potential precious metal content. This
is exclusively true for the Richardson property, and expected to be true for the Shorty Creek property. The Shorty Creek prospect also contains evidence of copper and molybdenum. Properties such as these are generally viewed and valued by their size and grade (coupled with other spatial considerations). Grade is usually expressed in the form of troy ounces (of gold) per short ton (of rock), or in the metric system, grams (of gold) per metric ton (of rock) for precious metals group (gold, silver, and platinum group) and by per cent of the elemental metal, for metals like molybdenum, and the suite of base metals including copper, lead, zinc and similar metals. Thus Richardson and Shorty Creek are likely to be graded by the concentration of the valuable metal per ton of rock. Profitability is usually expressed as a function of the cost to produce the relevant unit of metal. For example if it costs $400 to mine, refine, and sell one ounce of gold mined from the Richardson property and gold sells for $800 per ounce, the mine makes $400 per every ounce of gold it sold. The industrial minerals properties are quite different. The Calder property is a quarry, which sells most, if not all, the product it removes from the ground. Thus properties like these are simply valued on a per-ton basis. If it costs $10 per ton to quarry the stone, and $30 to crush, ship and sell it, any price over $40 per ton would yield profit. Thus the valuation of Calder will be based on the number of tons of raw material sold, whereas the valuation of the Richardson and Shorty Creek properties will be based on the amount and cost of metal extracted and sold and will be described on an ounce or pound of metal basis.
Metals
Select’s precious metals properties are located in interior Alaska. They are the Richardson and Shorty Creek.
Richardson. The Richardson District is arguably the most prospective gold exploration district in east-central Alaska, and it remains underexplored. We acquired the Richardson claim block in 1987. It covers about 44.9 square miles or 28,720 acres of land, all of which is owned by the State of Alaska. All fees due to the State are current. The claims lie immediately north of the Richardson Highway, an all-weather paved highway that connects Fairbanks, Alaska, with points south and east. Fairbanks is approximately 65 miles northwest of Richardson, and Delta Junction, also on the highway, is about 30 miles to the southeast. The Trans Alaska Pipeline corridor is near the northeastern edge of the claim block and the service road along the pipeline provides access to the claims from the north. Numerous good to fair gravel and dirt roads traverse the claims, a number of which are traversable well into winter.
The following table sets forth the information regarding the acreage position of our Richardson, Alaska claim block as of December 31, 2008:
Gross Acres
Net Acres
28,720
27,926
The Richardson project is an early stage gold exploration project in the Richardson District with past placer and load gold production and prospective geophysical and geochemical signatures consistent with intrusion-related gold systems. A number of highly prospective zones have been identified in previous exploration programs carried out by the Company and third-party mining companies. Geophysical assessment, geochemical sampling, and drilling programs have been carried out over several previous exploration campaigns on known gold bearing areas, including the Richardson Lineament (which includes the historic Democrat Mine and the adjacent May’s Pit [not a Select property]), Hilltop, Shamrock, Buckeye and other property locations. In late-2005, Select carried out geophysical and satellite interpretation programs over the entire Richardson property and a multi-element soil auger geochemical program extending along an approximate 4.5 mile section of the Richardson Lineament (the Richardson Lineament has been identified and appears to extend in excess of 12 to 15 miles in length). The surveys defined a series of six adjacent, yet discrete precious metal and other element anomalies along the 4.5 mile strike length and one mile width of the geochemical area tested. Select also drilled eight shallow diamond drill holes in the Democrat Mine area for a total of 3,050 feet, which indicated low grade gold and silver mineralization.
In 2007, Select continued the interpretation of the work initiated in late-2005, and identified additional geochemical targets that would potentially extend the previous sampling program further along the strike of the Richardson Lineament. Select also conducted a series of local surveys in order to prepare additional areas on the Richardson Lineament and in the Hilltop for future geochemical sampling, trenching and drilling. Select also conducted annual maintenance and repair work on the Richardson Roadhouse, associated buildings and core storage areas. In 2007,
Select also further evaluated the general geology and based on the size of the anomaly, Select believes this property is capable of holding a five-million ounce target.
In 2008, Select continued the work of 2007, and also translated that into improved descriptions of the property used for attracting investment. In July of 2008, Select acquired the full-time services of Mr. James G. Bush as President. Mr. Bush immediately began reviewing and in parallel consolidating all Richardson property files to a centralized location and soliciting partners for developing or monetizing the property.
The Shorty Creek project has been described by a State Geologist of Alaska as perhaps the best drill -ready gold exploration project in Alaska. It directly offsets, and is on trend with, the International Tower Hill property to the north where drilling now infers 7 million ounces with a 10 million ounce target.
Select obtained the Shorty Creek property in December of 2004. It is located about 60 miles northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska on the all-weather paved Elliott Highway that connects Fairbanks, Alaska with the North Slope petroleum production areas. Fairbanks is approximately 60 miles to the southwest, and the property is about 3 miles south of the abandoned town site of Livengood. At Shorty Creek, Select controls mineral rights to 178 State of Alaska mining claims through staking and lease arrangements from Gold Range Ltd., covering approximately 17 square miles.
The following table sets forth the information regarding the acreage position of the Shorty Creek claim block as of December 31, 2008:
Gross Acres
Net Acres
11,080
11,080
Mineral properties claimed on open state land require minimum annual assessment work of $100 worth per State of Alaska claim. All fees are current.
The Shorty Creek Project is a gold or possibly a polymetalic exploration project in the Livengood District with historical exploration, geochemical sampling and drilling over several previous exploration campaigns identifying anomalous concentrations of gold, copper, molybdenum and their pathfinder elements. In 2005 Select carried out a geophysical and satellite interpretation programs over the entire Shorty Creek property. Select also conducted a multi-element soil auger geochemical program extending over one of four distinctive aeromagnetic anomalies, covering an area approximately of 1 mile, resulting in the identification of five precious metal and base metal anomalies.
In July of 2008, Select acquired the full-time services of Mr. James G. Bush as President. Mr. Bush immediately began reviewing and in parallel consolidating all Shorty Creek property files to a centralized location and soliciting partners for developing or monetizing the property. To that end, Select reviewed all accessible Shorty Creek data from old drilling and other early activities. For comparison purposes, Select also reviewed a substantial portion of the data recently released by International Tower Hill from the work being conducted on their Livengood Project, a short distance due north of the Shorty Creek property. These reviews led Select staff to seek out old data, archived from other companies, and reinterpret it in the context of current events and prices. The bulk of the archived drilling data is nearly 20 years old and other data is considerably older. This was an informative exercise, indicating that substantial near-surface intercepts drilled on the Shorty Creek property compared very favorably with the intercepts, commonly deeper, drilled by International Tower Hill. International Tower Hill is currently claiming the delineation of 2 million to 7 million ounces (depending on grade cut-off). Select’s archived data continues to be attractive information at the elevated prices of gold in 2007 and 2008. The retrieval of this old data was, and continues to be, a challenging undertaking, in that responsible parties have deceased, are no longer with the company, or are consultants who completed their work for Select years ago.
To date, Select has not identified proven or probable mineral reserves on Shorty Creek. Based on archived data, however, Select has identified significant mineralization on the property, and if determined to be of adequate size, quality, and spatial distribution, the final extent of this mineralization could prove to be economic at some point in the future. Further exploration is required before a final evaluation as to the economic and technical feasibility can be determined.
Likewise, Select has not identified proven or probable mineral reserves on the Richardson property.
There is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of these mineral properties. The current economic conditions by all reasonable accounts point towards continued strength for precious metal prices with gold having occasionally exceeded $1,000 per ounce prices. Given that it may well take years for complete economic turnaround, Select plans to maintain a strong focus on these properties.
Industrial Minerals
Select’s industrial mineral project consists of the Admiral calcium carbonate quarry in Alaska. The Admiral Quarry was obtained in 2005 from Sealaska Corporation. It is located on the north-west side of Prince of Wales Island, approximately 150 (air) miles south of Juneau and 88 (air) miles northwest of Ketchikan. The quarry consists of drilled high chemical grade, high brightness and high whiteness mineralized material, and is considered to be in the top 1% of high grade, high white, high bright, CaCO3 deposits in the world. “Mineralized material” means a mineralized body, which has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support a sufficient tonnage and average grade of metals. Determinations of mineralized material are based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries, and other material factors to reach conclusions regarding legal and economic feasibility. Grade and brightness tests were conducted by Hazen Research Inc. of Golden, Colorado on selected run-of-quarry and core sample material. Hazen’s and independent geological engineer, M. J. Bright's grade and tonnage figures correspond and meet or exceed the earlier grade and tonnage figures represented by Sealaska and SeaCal, LLC. No proven or probable ore reserves have been determined which meet the standards set forth in the SEC's Industry Guide 7. (In the case of industrial minerals, proven and probable ore reserves are those which are currently in production and being sold. Relative to the Admiral Quarry, the operation previously had proven and probable ore reserves. However, while on standby status, the mineable material moves from the ore reserve category to mineralized material. Once production is restarted, the mineralized material will reconvert to proven and probable ore reserves.)
We have obtained a preliminary estimate on the quarry from M. J. Bright, independent registered professional geologist, which identifies high grade to ultra high grade (+94% to +98% CaCO3), high brightness (+95 GE Brightness @ -325 mesh) calcium carbonate mineralized material in place. The purchase also includes all associated infrastructure and equipment that the previous owner installed at a cost exceeding $20 million. The current quarry covers only 15 acres; but the entire property covers 572 acres of patented mining ground, and includes all operating permits and tideland leases approximately one half of all of which are still active. Less than 10% of the gross acreage has been explored and geologic mapping suggests additional resources exist on the property. Select currently has plans and is pursuing methods to monetize the property, by any combination of 1) redevelopment of the quarry; 2) outright sale or lease; 3) joint venture of some form. During the current economic downturn, Select will hold the property while Select pursues this and other previously identified opportunities. Select also owns the timber rights on the acreage and believes that value alone could repay the cost of acquisition of the property.
In 2006, Select arranged to evaluate some 200 industrial mineral properties in Nevada from the inventory of Newmont Mining Corporation. Select had the option to negotiate exploration and development opportunities it chooses from this inventory. Select did not find any properties that fit its corporate needs, and this project was concluded.
In 2007, Select conducted maintenance and repair activity at Calder and obtained an updated status of the facility. In conjunction with this Select began contacting potential parties to monetize this property.
In 2008, Select conducted a second maintenance and repair activity at Calder and obtained an updated status of the facility. During this season, equipment was operated and small batches of material processed to various extents. In conjunction with this Select continued contacting and began discussions with potential parties to monetize this property. Select also retained the services on a confidential basis of a national expert for further evaluation of the quarry. That report is quite favorable to product desirability and operational characteristics.
ITEM 3