ITEM 2 Properties
Our headquarters and administrative offices are located at 4550 California Avenue, Suite 600, Bakersfield, California 93309. We lease approximately 10,300 square feet of office space at that location. Our principal properties consist of proven and unproven oil and gas properties, mining claims on unproven precious metals properties, maps and geologic records related to prospective oil and gas and unproven precious metal properties, office and other equipment. TVOG has a worldwide geologic library with petroleum data on every continent except Antarctica including over 700 leads and prospects in California, our present area of emphasis, along with more than 20,000 line miles of digitized 2-D seismic, the workhorse of the majority of the seismic in California.
Oil and Gas Operations
In 2005, Tri-Valley acquired several oil and gas properties and transferred them to the Opus-I Partnership for development. Tri-Valley receives a 25% carried working interest in the initial wells drilled on these properties and any initial reworks of existing wells and will then pay its 25% pro rata share of subsequent development drilling and operations on the properties. The following properties are part of the Opus-1 Partnership: 1) Temblor Valley West, 2) Temblor Valley East, 3) Pleasant Valley, 4) Moffat Ranch, 5) and major interest in the Ekho No. 1 deep play and the Sunrise Natural Gas Project.
Temblor Valley West/South Belridge Field: Our South Belridge lease includes 50 wells, 28 producing, 18 idle and 4 injector wells, plus five new drill wells over the last two years, the Lundin-Weber D352-30, D540-30, D344-30, D188-30, and D24-30 which served to extend the known oil bearing formations to the west by over a half mile. The latter three wells were drilled in 2007. In mid-2007, two of these wells, D-352-30 and D-344-30, supported a regulatory-approved cyclic steam stimulation pilot in the Diatomite zone utilizing two of our recently refurbished, and company owned steam generators. A small-scale waterflood pilot in the Etchegoin formation was also initiated in mid-2007 including the conversion of two wells to injector service to evaluate incremental recovery potential and water movement prior to a planned waterflood expansion. Well test facilities were also installed and upgraded in 2007 to support the evaluation of pilot project production. Several idle wells were also returned to production in 2007, which included remedial wellwork to upgrade several wellbores to support our pilot operations.
In 2008, we plan to further evaluate the waterflood potential via sustained and filtered injection and the injection of radioactive tracers to pinpoint water movement and waterflood efficiency. We are working on a detailed design to expand the waterflood operation. The objective of the water flood is the potential recovery of some 2.5 million barrels of oil from the Etchegoin zone. In 2008, we plan additional Diatomite cyclic steaming operations of uphole intervals and production tests on other Etchegoin and Tulare formations in our five most recently drilled wells. We may also include a continuous steamflood pilot and horizontal well in our 2008 development plan. If results from our waterflood and/or cyclic steaming projects are favorable, additional drilling and facility upgrades in the field and procurement of a permanent water or steam source may follow.
Temblor Valley East/Edison Oil Field: This property consists of four separate leases in the Edison and Edison Grove Fields consisting of 31 total wells. It includes the Shields & Arms area, consisting of 7 wells including 3 producers, 1 injector, and 3 idle wells. In late 2007, all three current producers were restored to full-time production service and water injection was diverted to lower intervals to boost production. In 2008, we plan to restore production to the other producing leases which include 24 idle wells.
Pleasant Valley Field: This property lies in Ventura County in the Pleasant Valley Field. During 2007, we initiated thermal development of the heavy oil Upper Vaca Tar Sands by drilling and coring a vertical pilot hole followed by a 1500’ horizontal sidetrack, which represents the first horizontal well technology application in this oil field. A successful, cyclic steam stimulation pilot was initiated in this well which resulted in first production from this development in December 2007. Based on these results, we also initiated full surface facility installations in 2007. In 2008, we plan to drill at least six more horizontal wells in the Vaca Tar Sands to expand our cyclic steam injection development and boost production from this zone. We expect to install a permanent gas line to deliver fuel to our steaming operations. Also in 2007, we drilled a deeper, vertical test well to below 8000 feet from the same drilling/production location to evaluate a potential, complementary light oil development. In 2008, we will further evaluate the productive potential of the multiple oil bearing zones encountered in this test well; including hydraulic fracture stimulations.
Moffat Ranch: This gas field is located in the southern area of the California gas country in Madera County approximately 2.5 hours north of our Bakersfield, CA headquarters. Upon acquisition, this field consisted of three idle wellbores and deeper drilling potential. In late 2007, the Company drilled the deepest wellbore penetration in the field, to below 10,000 feet, to evaluate more than 14 potential producing horizons. Two of these potential gas zones were evaluated for productive potential in 2007 and one was successfully tested at over one million cubic feet per day. In 2008 we plan to tie this well into an adjacent gas sales pipeline and drill a follow-up gas producer. Our plans in 2008 also include restoring the three idle wells to production service.
Chowchilla Ranch Gas Field: We purchased approximately 6,670 acres of mineral rights, which basically covers what was the Chowchilla Ranch in Madera County, California. This land position is held by production at this time. We believe this land to be very under developed and under exploited. We plan to re-enter, recomplete and further infill drill the leasehold position. We have also leased approximately 7,500 additional acres offsetting the 6,670 acre Chowchilla property.
Ekho: In 2005, we successfully hydraulically fractured the Ekho #1 well in the Vedder Zone of completion in the interval between 18,018’ and 18,525’ injecting approximately 5,000 barrels of fluid, which carried approximately 118,000-pounds of bauxite propping material. While very successful mechanically, the operation did not result in the well producing hydrocarbons at commercial rates. This well still has multiple targets to evaluate further up the hole. We have been reviewing the resulting data from the fracturing operation both internally and with outside firms as it believes the potential reserve of the Vedder Zone deserves that degree of attention. We have not made a final decision yet concerning the next course of action pending a joint study by Tri-Valley and a worldwide scientific research firm we retained in December 2006.
Sunrise-Mayel: Also in 2005, we successfully hydraulically fractured a 1,000’ portion of the 3,000’ horizontal portion of the well bore in the Sunrise-Mayel #2H Redrill #2 well in the Sunrise Natural Gas Project in Delano, California. The well was hydraulically fractured utilizing gelled diesel, which carried in approximately 138,000 pounds of sand. Again, while mechanically successful, the operation did not result in the well producing hydrocarbons at commercial rates. As with the Ekho Project, we continue to review all available techniques to bring the Sunrise Project potential to commercial realization because of the volume of natural gas in place in the tight reservoir. The Sunrise project is included in the joint study with the scientific research organization. We believe the tight McClure Shale which hosts an estimated 3 TCF of gas in the mapped area of closure can ultimately be stimulated to release a portion of the gas in place at commercial rates once the right method is identified.
We hold approximately 17,000 acres in Nevada, all chosen from proprietary data as prospective for oil and gas exploration. We have producing interests in gas fields in the Sacramento Valley of Northern California including the Rio Vista and Dutch Slough Gas Fields. In 2007, we performed remedial rig work on the top Rio Vista producing well, which served to more than double historical production rates from the well/field. Our 2008 plans include additional work on our Rio Vista gas wells to boost gas production.
Other key operational activity in 2007 included the ongoing procurement and refurbishment of a steam generator fleet, which now includes 18 units, to support our thermal, heavy oil developments. Three of these units were restored to field-ready status in 2007 and have been mobilized and used in our field developments. Our fleet of rigs have been idle since the third quarter of 2007 in support of a refurbishment and certification campaign to upgrade our rigs for increased utility for us and other operators.
The trend of demand of petroleum products outstripping available supplies continues and has become more acute in the last year both worldwide and particularly in California which is currently importing nearly 60% of its oil and nearly 90% of its natural gas. This is all reflected in the extreme spiraling up price trend in the last year. While we expect occasional dips in the oil price, barring catastrophic terrorist or natural disaster, we believe the overall long-term price trend is up.
We do not own any bulk storage facilities or refineries. We own a small segment of a pipeline in Tracy, California. To counter the shortage of production and drilling rigs, we are assembling a fleet to service our wells and contract out when not in use.
We have retained the services of Cecil Engineering, an independent engineer qualified to estimate our net share of proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves on all of our oil and gas properties at December 31, 2007 for SEC filing. For 2007, our independent engineer prepared an oil and gas reserve report using guidelines established by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission for valuation of oil and gas reserves. Price is a material factor in our stated reserves, because higher prices permit relatively higher-cost reserves to be produced economically. Higher prices generally permit longer recovery, hence larger reserves at higher values. Conversely, lower prices generally limit recovery to lower-cost reserves, hence smaller reserves. The process of estimating oil and gas reserve quantities is inherently imprecise. Ascribing monetary values to those reserves, therefore, yields imprecise estimated data at best.
Our estimated future net recoverable oil and gas reserves from proved developed properties as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
Using year-end oil and gas prices and current levels of lease operating expenses, the estimated present value of the future net revenue to be derived from our proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves, discounted at 10%, was $12,324,390 at December 31, 2007, $6,121,295 at December 31, 2006, and $7,056,072 at December 31, 2005. The unaudited supplemental information attached to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on oil and gas reserves and estimated values.
The following table sets forth the net quantities of natural gas and crude oil that we produced during:
The following table sets forth our average sales price and average production (lifting) cost per unit of oil and gas produced during:
* Amount represents total sales price of associated condensate, unable to determine production cost per barrel.
As of December 31, 2007, we had the following gross and net position in wells and developed acreage:
All of our producing wells and acres where the Company has a working interest are located within California.
(1)
"Gross" wells represent the total number of producing wells in which we have a working interest. "Net" wells represent the number of gross producing wells multiplied by the percentages of the working interests, which we own. "Net wells" recognizes only those wells in which we hold an earned working interest. Working interests earned at payout have not been included.
(2)
"Gross" acres represent the total acres in which we have a working interest; "net" acres represent the aggregate of the working interests, which we own in the gross acres.
The following table sets forth the number of productive and dry exploratory and development wells which we drilled during:
The following table sets forth information regarding undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we had an interest on December 31, 2007:
State
Gross Acres
Net Acres
California
26,447
22,176
Nevada
18,559
18,559
Our undeveloped acreage is held pursuant to leases from landowners. Such leases have varying dates of execution and generally expire one to five years after the date of the lease. In the next three years, the following lease gross acreage expires:
Expires in 2008
5,550 acres
Expires in 2009
3,618 acres
Expires in 2010
22,985 acres
Mineral Properties
Metals
Select’s precious metals properties are located in interior Alaska. They are the Richardson and Shorty Creek.
We acquired the Richardson claim block in 1987. It covers about 44.9 square miles or 28,720 acres of land, all of which is owned by the State of Alaska. All fees due to the State are current. The claims lie immediately north of the Richardson Highway, an all-weather paved highway that connects Fairbanks, Alaska, with points south and east. Fairbanks is approximately 65 miles northwest of Richardson, and Delta Junction, also on the highway, is about 30 miles to the southeast. The Trans Alaska Pipeline corridor is near the northeastern edge of the claim block and the service road along the pipeline provides access to the claims from the north. Numerous good to fair dirt roads traverse the claims.
The following table sets forth the information regarding the acreage position of our Richardson, Alaska claim block as of December 31, 2007:
Gross Acres
Net Acres
28,720
27,926
The Richardson project is an early stage gold exploration project in the Richardson District with past placer and load gold production and prospective geophysical and geochemical signatures consistent with intrusion-related gold systems. A number of highly prospective zones have been identified in previous exploration programs carried out by the Company and third-party mining companies. Geophysical assessment, geochemical sampling, and drilling programs have been carried out over several previous exploration campaigns on known gold bearing areas, including the Richardson Lineament (which includes the historic Democrat Mine and the adjacent May’s Pit [not a Select property]), Hilltop, Shamrock, Buckeye and other property locations. In late-2005, Select carried out geophysical and satellite interpretation programs over the entire Richardson property and a multi-element soil auger geochemical program extending along an approximate 4.5 mile section of the Richardson Lineament (the Richardson Lineament has been identified and appears to extend in excess of 12 to 15 miles in length). The surveys defined a series of six adjacent, yet discrete precious metal and other element anomalies along the 4.5 mile strike length and one mile width of the geochemical area tested. Select also drilled eight shallow diamond drill holes in the Democrat Mine area for a total of 3,050 feet, which indicated low grade gold and silver mineralization.
In 2007, Select continued the interpretation of the work initiated in late-2005, and identified additional geochemical targets that would potentially extend the previous sampling program further along the strike of the Richardson Lineament. Select also conducted a series of local surveys in order to prepare additional areas on the Richardson Lineament and in the Hilltop for future geochemical sampling, trenching and drilling. Select also conducted annual maintenance and repair work on the Richardson Roadhouse, associated buildings and core storage areas.
Select obtained the Shorty Creek property in 2004. It is located about 60 miles northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska on the all-weather paved Elliott Highway that connects Fairbanks, Alaska with the North Slope petroleum production areas. Fairbanks is approximately 60 miles to the southwest, and the property is about 3 miles south of the abandoned townsite of Livengood. At Shorty Creek, Select controls mineral rights to 178 State of Alaska mining claims through staking and lease arrangements from Gold Range Ltd., covering approximately 17 square miles.
The following table sets forth the information regarding the acreage position of the Shorty Creek claim block as of December 31, 2007:
State
Gross Acres
Net Acres
Alaska
11,080
11,080
Mineral properties claimed on open state land require minimum annual assessment work of $100 worth per State of Alaska claim. All fees are current.
The Shorty Creek Project is an early stage gold exploration project in the Livengood District with historical exploration, geochemical sampling and drilling over several previous exploration campaigns identifying anomalous concentrations of gold, copper, molybdenum and their pathfinder elements. In 2005 Select carried out a geophysical and satellite interpretation programs over the entire Shorty Creek property. Select also conducted a multi-element soil auger geochemical program extending over one of four distinctive aeromagnetic anomalies, covering an area approximately of 1 mile, resulting in the identification of five precious metal and base metal anomalies.
To date, Select has not identified proven or probable mineral reserves on these properties. There is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of these mineral properties. Further exploration is required before a final evaluation as to the economic and technical feasibility can be determined. However, the Alaska State Geologist has said that the Shorty Creek property is the best undrilled prospect in the State of Alaska.
Industrial Minerals
Select’s industrial mineral project consists of the Admiral calcium carbonate mine in Alaska. The Admiral Mine was obtained in 2005 from Sealaska Corporation. It is located on the north-west side of Prince of Wales Island, approximately 150 (air) miles south of Juneau and 88 (air) miles northwest of Ketchikan. The mine consists of drilled high chemical grade, high brightness and high whiteness mineralized material, and is considered to be in the top 1% of high grade, high white, high bright, CaCO3 deposits in the world. “Mineralized material” means a mineralized body, which has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support a sufficient tonnage and average grade of metals. Determinations of mineralized material are based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries, and other material factors to reach conclusions regarding legal and economic feasibility. Grade and brightness tests were conducted by Hazen Research Inc. of Golden, Colorado on selected run-of-mine and core sample material. Hazen’s and independent geological engineer, M. G. Bright's grade and tonnage figures correspond and support the earlier grade and tonnage figures represented by Sealaska and SeaCal, LLC. No proven or probable ore reserves have been determined which meet the standards set forth in the SEC's Industry Guide 7. (In the case of industrial minerals, proven and probable ore reserves are those which are currently in production and being sold. Relative to the Admiral mine, the operation previously had proven and probable ore reserves, however, while on standby status, the mineable material moves from the ore reserve category to mineralized material. Once production is restarted, the mineralized material will reconvert to proven and probable ore reserves.) We have obtained a preliminary estimate on the mine from M. G. Bright, independent registered professional geologist, which identifies high grade to ultra high grade (+94% to +98% CaCO3), high brightness (+95 GE Brightness @ -325 mesh) calcium carbonate mineralized material in place. The purchase also includes all associated infrastructure and equipment that the previous owner installed at a cost exceeding $20 million. The current mine covers only 15 acres; the entire property covers 572 acres of patented mining ground, and includes all operating permits and tideland leases. Less than 10% of the gross acreage has been explored and we believe additional resources may yet be discovered. We do not currently have plans to proceed with redevelopment of the mine but intend to hold it while Select pursues other previously identified opportunities. Select also owns the timber rights on the acreage and believes that value alone could repay the cost of acquisition of the property.
Also in 2006, Select arranged to evaluate some 200 industrial mineral properties in Nevada from the inventory of Newmont Mining Corporation. Select had the option to negotiate exploration and development opportunities it chooses from this inventory. Select did not find any properties that fit its corporate needs, and this project is concluded.
ITEM 4