Item 2. PROPERTIES
Refining Operation
Overview
The Company owns and operates two strategically located, high conversion refineries with a combined capacity of 152,000 barrels of crude oil per day--a 100,000 barrel per day facility located in Pasadena, Texas, near Houston, and a 52,000 barrel per day facility located in Tyler, Texas. Both refineries are operated to generate a product mix of over 85% higher margin fuels, primarily transportation fuels such as gasoline, highway diesel and jet fuel. When operating to maximize the production of light products, the product mix at both of the Refineries is approximately 55% gasoline, 33% distillates (such as diesel, home heating oil, jet fuel, and kerosene), 6% petrochemical feedstocks and 6% slurry oil and petroleum coke.
The Pasadena refinery and Tyler refinery averaged production of 98,793 barrels per day and 48,932 barrels per day, respectively, during 1994. While both refineries primarily run sweet (low sulphur content) crude oil, they can process up to 20% of sour (high sulphur content) crude oil in their mix.
The Company's access to extensive pipeline networks provides it with the ability to acquire crude oil directly from major integrated and independent domestic producers, foreign producers, or trading companies, and to transport this crude to the refineries at a competitive cost. The Pasadena refinery, has docking facilities which provide direct access to tankers and barges for the delivery of crude oil and other feedstocks. The Company also has agreements with terminal operators for the storage and handling of the crude oil it receives from large ocean-going vessels and which the Company transports to the refineries by pipeline. The Tyler refinery benefits from its location in East Texas since the Company can purchase high quality crude oil at favorable prices directly from nearby producers. In addition, the Tyler Refinery is the only supplier of a full range of petroleum products in its local market area. See "-- Supply, Transportation and Wholesale Marketing."
Over the past several years, the Company has made significant capital investments to upgrade its refining facilities and improve operational efficiency. The Company has also recently completed several programs which have resulted in increased profitability at the refinery level. The Company began a maintenance expense reduction program at the Pasadena Refinery in 1992. This program is designed to reduce routine maintenance expenditures by increasing project reliability, reducing the use of outside contractors, decreasing the overall amount of overtime expenditures and realigning maintenance personnel responsibilities. The result of this program has been to reduce average maintenance expenditures from $1.6 million per month in 1991 to approximately $1.1 million per month in 1994. The Company has also initiated a gain sharing program with its employees at the Tyler Refinery under which savings realized are shared with the employees on a quarterly basis.
Pasadena Refinery
The Pasadena refinery is located on approximately 174 acres in Pasadena, Texas and was the first refinery built on the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery has been substantially modernized since 1969 and today has a rated crude capacity of 100,000 barrels per day. During the past five years, the Company has invested approximately $120 million in major upgrading and maintenance projects.
The Company's refining strategy includes several initiatives to enhance productivity. For example, the Company has completed the first phase of an extensive plant-wide distributed control system at the Pasadena refinery which is designed to improve product yields, make more efficient use of personnel and optimize process operations. The crude and vacuum distillation, coking, and distillate hydrotreating units are currently benefitting from the system which began operating in June 1994. The fluid catalytic cracking unit is scheduled to be added to the system in the second quarter of 1995 and the remainder of the Pasadena refinery is scheduled to be added by the first quarter of 1996. The distributed control system uses technology that is fast, accurate and provides increased information to both operators and supervisors.
The Pasadena refinery has a crude unit with a 100,000 barrels per day atmospheric column and a 38,000 barrels per day vacuum tower. Major downstream units consist of a 52,000 barrels per day fluid catalytic cracking unit, a 12,000 barrels per day delayed coking unit, two alkylation units with a combined capacity of 10,000 barrels per day of alkylate production, and two reformers with a combined capacity of 36,000 barrels per day. Other units include two depropanizer units that can produce 5,500 barrels per day of refinery grade propylene, a liquefied petroleum gas unit that removes approximately 1,000 barrels per day of liquids from the refinery fuel system and a methyl tertiary butyl ether ("MTBE") unit which can produce approximately 1,500 barrels per day of MTBE for gasoline blending. The Company recently abandoned its plans to construct a hydrodesulphurization unit at its Pasadena Refinery. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition - Results of Operations".
The Clean Air Act mandates that after January 1, 1995 only reformulated gasoline ("RFG") may be sold in certain ozone non-attainment areas, including some metropolitan areas where the Company sells gasoline. Using production from its MTBE unit, the Pasadena refinery can currently produce 12,000 barrels per day of winter grade RFG. With additional purchases of MTBE, ethanol or other oxygenates, all of the Pasadena refinery's current gasoline production could meet winter grade RFG standards. The Company is in the process of constructing a reformate splitter at its Pasadena refinery at a cost of $3.5 million which will enable it to make 12,000 barrels per day of summer grade RFG using its own MTBE, and up to 100% of its Pasadena refinery gasoline production as summer grade RFG with the purchase of additional oxygenates. This project is expected to be completed by August 1995 and will satisfy all of the Company's retail RFG requirements.
In 1994, the Pasadena refinery was impacted by the fluid catalytic cracking unit turnaround and operated at approximately 85% of rated crude unit capacity with production yielding approximately 53% gasoline and 32% distillates. Of the total gasoline production, approximately 20% was premium octane grades. In addition, the Pasadena refinery produced and sold by-products including propylene, propane, slurry oil, petroleum coke and sulphur.
The Company owns and operates storage facilities located on approximately 130 acres near its Pasadena refinery which, together with tanks on the refinery site, provide the Company with a storage capacity of approximately 6.2 million barrels (2.8 million barrels for crude oil and 3.4 million barrels for refined petroleum products and intermediate stocks).
The Pasadena refinery's refined petroleum products are delivered to both wholesale and retail customers. Approximately one-half of the gasoline and distillate production is sold wholesale into the Gulf Coast spot market and one-half is shipped by the Company on the Colonial and Plantation pipelines for sale in East Coast wholesale and retail markets. The Company's retail gasoline requirements represent approximately 47% of the Pasadena refinery's total gasoline production capability.
Tyler Refinery
The Tyler refinery is located on approximately 100 of the 529 acres owned by the Company in Tyler, Texas and has a rated crude capacity of 52,000 barrels per day. This refinery, which was acquired from Texas Eastern Corporation in the fourth quarter of 1989, had been substantially modernized between 1977 and 1980. The Tyler refinery's location allows it to access nearby high quality East Texas crude oil which accounts for approximately 95% of its crude supply. This crude oil is transported to the refinery on the McMurrey and Scurlock pipeline systems. The Company owns the McMurrey system and has a long- term contract for use of the Scurlock system with Scurlock Permian Pipe Line Corporation. The Company also has the ability to ship crude oil to the Tyler refinery by pipeline from the Gulf Coast and does so when market conditions are favorable. Storage capacity at the Tyler refinery exceeds 2.7 millions barrels (1.2 million barrels for crude and 1.5 million barrels for refined petroleum products and intermediate stocks), including tankage along the Company's pipeline system.
The Tyler refinery has a crude unit with a 52,000 barrels per day atmospheric column and a 16,000 barrels per day vacuum tower. The other major process units at the Tyler refinery include an 18,000 barrels per day fluid catalytic cracking unit, a 6,000 barrels per day delayed coking unit, a 20,000 barrels per day naphtha hydrotreating unit, a 12,000 barrels per day distillate hydrotreating unit, two reforming units with a combined capacity of 16,000 barrels per day, a 5,000 barrels per day isomerization unit, and an alkylation unit with a capacity of 4,700 barrels per day. The hydrotreating units were significantly modified in 1993 enabling this plant to produce 12,000 barrels per day of distillate which meets the Clean Air Act's .05% sulphur requirements for highway diesel.
In 1994, the Tyler refinery operated at approximately 92% of rated crude unit capacity, with production yielding approximately 56% gasoline and approximately 35% distillates. Of the total gasoline production, approximately 33% was premium octane grades. In addition, the refinery produced and sold by-products including propylene, propane, slurry oil, petroleum coke and sulphur. The Tyler refinery is the principal supplier of refined petroleum products in the East Texas market with approximately 60% of production sold at the refinery's truck terminal. The remaining production is shipped via the Texas Eastern Products Pipeline for sale either from the Company's terminals or from other terminals along the pipeline. Deliveries under term exchange agreements account for the majority of the truck terminal sales.
Retail Operations
Overview
The Company traces its retail marketing history to the early 1930's when it operated a retail network of 30 service stations in the Houston, Texas area. It began retail operations on the East Coast in 1943. The Company has been recognized as an innovative industry leader and, in the early 1960's, pioneered the multi-pump retailing concept which has since become an industry standard in the marketing of gasoline. In 1983 the Company significantly expanded its retail presence with the acquisition of 642 Fast Fare and Zippy Mart convenience stores located in the Southeastern United States. In 1986 the Company purchased an additional 50 gasoline stations, expanding the Company's presence in the Baltimore/Washington, D.C. region, and in 1991, the Company acquired 48 additional units in Virginia which doubled its presence in that state.
Beginning in 1989, the Company conducted a facility by facility review of its retail units. As a result, the Company disposed of non- strategic, marginal or unprofitable units as well as certain units which would have required significant capital improvements to comply with environmental regulations. During this period, the Company rebuilt and added individual units to increase its market share in strategic core markets. Since 1990, the Company has eliminated 414 retail units and added 45 retail units. During the same period, the Company closed a number of district offices and divisional headquarters. The Company believes it has substantially completed its retail unit rationalization program.
As of December 31, 1994, the Company had 357 retail locations. Of these 357 units (247 owned and 110 leased), the Company directly operated 255 and the remainder were operated by independent dealers. The Company conducts its operations in Maryland through an independent dealer network as a result of legislation which prohibits refiners from operating gasoline stations in Maryland. The Company believes that the high proportion of Company-operated units enables it to respond quickly and uniformly to changing market conditions.
While most of the Company's units are located in or around major metropolitan areas, its sites are generally not situated on major interstate highways or inter-city thoroughfares. These off-highway locations primarily serve local customers and, as a result, the Company's retail marketing unit volumes are not as highly seasonal or dependent on seasonal vacation traffic as locations operating on major traffic arteries. The Company is the largest independent retail marketer of gasoline in its core retail market areas within Maryland, Virginia and North Carolina. In the Company's primary retail marketing area of Baltimore, Maryland, the Company is the leading independent gasoline retailer, with a 1994 market share of approximately 12%. In addition to its leading market position in Baltimore, the Company has a geographic concentration of retail locations in high growth areas such as Raleigh and Charlotte, North Carolina and Atlanta, Georgia. The Company's three highest volume core markets are Baltimore, the suburban areas of Maryland and Virginia surrounding Washington, D.C., and the greater Norfolk, Virginia area.
Retail Unit Operations
The Company conducts its retail marketing operations through three basic store formats: convenience stores, mini-marts and gasoline stations. At December 31, 1994, the Company had 99 convenience stores, 125 mini-marts and 133 gasoline stations.
The Company's convenience stores operate primarily under the names Fast Fare and Zippy Mart. These units generally contain 1,500 to 2,800 square feet of retail space and typically provide gasoline and a variety of convenience store merchandise such as tobacco products, beer, wine, soft drinks, snacks, dairy products and baked goods.
The Company's mini-marts generally contain up to 800 square feet of retail space and typically sell gasoline and much of the same merchandise as at the Company's convenience stores. The Company has installed lighted canopies at most of its locations which extend over the multi-pump fuel islands and the store itself, providing added security and protection from the elements for customers and employees.
The Company's gasoline stations generally contain up to 100 square feet of retail space in an island kiosk and typically offer gasoline and a limited amount of merchandise such as tobacco products, candies, snacks and soft drinks.
The Company's units are brightly decorated with its trademark signage to create a consistent appearance and encourage customer recognition and patronage. The Company believes that consistency of brand image is important to the successful operation and expansion of its retail marketing system. In all aspects of its retail marketing operations the Company emphasizes quality, value, cleanliness and friendly and efficient customer service. The Company has conducted customer surveys which indicate strong consumer preference for units which are well- lighted and safe. In response to such customer preferences, the Company has initiated a system-wide lighting upgrade and safety enhancement program which includes the installation of improved lighting as well as the installation of its proprietary Coronet Security System, an interactive audio and video monitoring system, at over 70 of its units.
While the Company derives approximately 75% of its retail revenue from the sale of gasoline, it also provides a variety of merchandise and other services designed to meet the non-fuel needs of its customers. Sales of these additional products are an important source of revenue, contribute to increased profitability and serve to increase customer traffic. The Company believes that its existing retail sites present significant additional profit opportunities based upon their strategic locations in high traffic areas. The Company also offers ancillary services such as compressed air service, car washes, vacuums, and automated teller machines, and management continues to evaluate the addition of new ancillary services such as the marketing of fast food from major branded chains.
Dealer Operations
The Company maintains 102 dealer-operated units, 101 of which are located in Maryland. Under the Maryland Divorcement Law, refiners are prohibited from operating gasoline stations. The Maryland units are operated under a Branded Service Station Lease and Dealer Agreement (the "Dealer Agreement"), generally with a term of three years. Pursuant to the Dealer Agreement, a dealer leases the facility from the Company and purchases and resells Crown-branded motor fuel and related products. Dealers also purchase and resell merchandise from independent third parties. The Dealer Agreement sets forth certain operating standards; however, the Company does not control the independent dealer's personnel, pricing policies or other aspects of the independent dealer's business. The Company believes that its relationship with its dealers has been very favorable as evidenced by a low rate of dealer turnover.
The Company realizes little direct benefit from the sale of merchandise or ancillary services at the dealer operated units, and the revenue from these sales is not reflected in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. However, to the extent that the availability of merchandise and ancillary services increases customer traffic and gasoline sales at its units, the Company benefits from higher gasoline sales volumes.
Supply, Transportation and Wholesale Marketing
Supply
The Company's refineries, terminals and retail outlets are strategically located in close proximity to a variety of supply and distribution channels. As a result, the Company has the flexibility to acquire available domestic and foreign crude oil economically, and also the ability to distribute its products cost effectively to its own system and to other domestic wholesale markets. Purchases of crude oil and feedstocks are determined by quality, price and general market conditions.
Transportation
Most of the domestic crude oil processed by the Company at its Pasadena refinery is transported by pipeline. The Company's purchases of Alaskan and foreign crude oil are transported primarily by tankers under spot charters which are arranged by either the seller or by the Company. The Company is not currently obligated under any time-charter contracts. The Company has an approximate 5% interest in the Rancho Pipeline and generally receives between 20,000 and 25,000 barrels per day of crude through this system. Foreign crudes (principally from the North Sea, West Africa and South America) account for approximately 35% of total crude supply and are delivered by tanker. Most of the crude for the Tyler refinery is gathered from local East Texas fields and delivered by two pipeline systems, one of which is owned by the Company. Foreign crude also can be delivered to the Tyler refinery by pipeline from the Gulf Coast.
Terminals
The Company operates 11 product terminals located along the Colonial and Plantation pipelines from the Pasadena refinery to Elizabeth, New Jersey and, in addition to the terminal at the Tyler refinery, operates four product terminals located along the Texas Eastern Products Pipeline system. These terminals have a combined storage capacity of 2.7 million barrels. The Company's distribution network is augmented by agreements with other terminal operators also located along these pipelines. In addition to serving the Company's retail requirements, these terminals supply products to other refiner/marketers, jobbers and independent distributors.
Wholesale Marketing
Approximately 16% of the gasoline produced by the Company's Pasadena refinery is transported by pipeline for sale at wholesale through Company and other terminals in the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern United States. Heating oil is also regularly sold at wholesale through these same terminals. Gasoline, heating oil, diesel fuel and other refined products are also sold at wholesale in the Gulf Coast market.
The Company has entered into long-term product exchange agreements for approximately one-third of its Tyler refinery production with two major oil companies headquartered in the United States. These agreements provide for the delivery of refined products at the Company's terminals in exchange for delivery by these companies of a similar amount of refined products to the Company. The terms of these agreements extend through March 1998 and December 1999, respectively, and require the exchange of 8,400 barrels per day and 9,800 barrels per day, respectively. These exchange agreements provide the Company with the ability to broaden its geographic distribution, supply markets not connected to the refined products pipeline systems and reduce transportation costs.
Item 3.