ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
(a) Office Facilities
We share offices with Delta under a management agreement with Delta. Under this agreement, we pay Delta a quarterly management fee of $25,000 for our share of rent, secretarial and administrative, accounting and management services of Delta's officers and employees.
(b) Oil and Gas Properties
We own interests in undeveloped offshore Federal leases and units located near Santa Barbara, California. We sold all of our onshore producing properties to Delta on July 1, 2001. As such, no oil and gas revenues were recorded during fiscal 2003. No reserves estimates were prepared for the past two years as all remaining leases are undeveloped.
Offshore Federal Waters: Santa Barbara, California Area -------------------------------------------------------
Unproved Undeveloped Properties -------------------------------
We own interests in three undeveloped federal units located in federal waters offshore California near Santa Barbara.
The Santa Barbara Channel and the offshore Santa Maria Basin are the seaward portions of geologically well-known onshore basins with over 90 years of production history. These offshore areas were first explored in the Santa Barbara Channel along the near shore three mile strip controlled by the state. New field discoveries in Pliocene and Miocene age reservoir sands led to exploration into the federally controlled waters of the Pacific Outer Continental Shelf ("POCS"). Although significant quantities of oil and gas have been produced and sold from drilling conducted on POCS leases between 1966 and 1989, we do not, however, own any interest in any offshore California production and there is no assurance that any of our undeveloped properties will ever achieve production.
Most of the early offshore production was from Pliocene age sandstone reservoirs. The more recent developments are from the highly fractured zones of the Miocene age Monterey Formation. The Monterey is productive in both the Santa Barbara Channel and the offshore Santa Maria Basin. It is the principal producing horizon in the Point Arguello field, the Point Pedernales field, and the Hondo and Pescado fields in the Santa Ynez Unit. Because the Monterey is capable of relatively high productive rates, the Hondo field, which has been on production since late 1981, has already surpassed 224 million Bbls of oil production and 411 Bcf of gas production. All told, offshore fields producing from the Monterey as of the end of calendar 2000 have produced 526 million Bbls of oil and 544 Bcf of gas.
California's active tectonic history over the last few million years has formed the large linear anticlinal features which trap the oil and gas. Marine seismic surveys have been used to locate and define these structures offshore.
Recent seismic surveying utilizing modern 3-D seismic technology, coupled with exploratory well data, has greatly improved knowledge of the size of reserves in fields under development and in fields for which development is planned. Currently, 11 fields are producing from 18 platforms in the Santa Barbara Channel and offshore Santa Maria Basin. Implementation of extended high-angle to horizontal drilling methods is reducing the number of platforms and wells needed to develop reserves in the area. Use of these new drilling methods and seismic technologies is expected to continue to improve development economics.
Leasing, lease administration, development and production within the Federal POCS all fall under the Code of Federal Regulations administered by the MMS. The EPA controls disposal of effluents, such as drilling fluids and produced waters. Other Federal agencies, including the Coast Guard and the Army Corps of Engineers, also have oversight on offshore construction and operations.
The first three miles seaward of the coastline are administered by each state and are known as "State Tidelands" in California. Within the State Tidelands off Santa Barbara County, the State of California, through the State Lands Commission, regulates oil and gas leases and the installation of permanent and temporary producing facilities. Because the three units in which we own interests are located in the POCS seaward of the three mile limit, leasing, drilling, and development of these units are not directly regulated by the State of California. However, to the extent that any production is transported to an on-shore facility through the state waters, our pipelines (or other transportation facilities) would be subject to California state regulations. Construction and operation of any such pipelines would require permits from the state. Additionally, all development plans must be consistent with the Federal Coastal Zone Management Act ("CZMA"). In California the decision of CZMA consistency is made by the California Coastal Commission.
The Santa Barbara County Energy Division and the Board of Supervisors will have a significant impact on the method and timing of any offshore field development through its permitting and regulatory authority over the construction and operation of on-shore facilities. In addition, the Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District has authority in the federal waters off Santa Barbara County through the Federal Clean Air Act as amended in 1990.
Each working interest owner will be required to pay its proportionate share of these costs based upon the amount of the interest that it owns. The size of our working interest in these units varies from .87% to 6.97%. We may be required to farm out all or a portion of our interests in these properties to a third party if we cannot fund our share of the development costs. There can be no assurance that we can farm out our interests on acceptable terms.
These units have been formally approved and are regulated by the MMS. While the Federal Government has recently attempted to expedite the process of obtaining permits and authorizations necessary to develop the properties, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in doing so.
We do not act as operator of any offshore California properties and consequently will not generally control the timing of either the development of the properties or the expenditures for development unless we choose to unilaterally propose the drilling of wells under the relevant operating agreements.
The MMS initiated the California Offshore Oil and Gas Energy Resources (COOGER) Study at the request of the local regulatory agencies of the three counties (Ventura, Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo) affected by offshore oil and gas development. A private consulting firm completed the study under a contract with the MMS. The COOGER Study presents a long-term regional perspective of potential onshore constraints that should be considered when developing existing undeveloped offshore leases. The COOGER Study projects the economically recoverable oil and gas production from offshore leases which have not yet been developed. These projections are utilized to assist in identifying a potential range of scenarios for developing these leases. These scenarios are compared to the projected infrastructural, environmental and socioeconomic baselines between 1995 and 2015.
No specific decisions regarding levels of offshore oil and gas development or individual projects will occur in connection with the COOGER Study. Information presented in the study is intended to be utilized as a reference document to provide the public, decision makers and industry with a broad overview of cumulative industry activities and key issues associated with a range of development scenarios. We have attempted to evaluate the scenarios that were studied with respect to properties located in the eastern and central subregions (which include the Sword Unit and the Gato Canyon Unit) and the results of such evaluation are set forth below:
Scenario 1 No new development of existing offshore leases. If this scenario were ultimately to be adopted by governmental decision makers as the proper course of action for development, our offshore California properties would in all likelihood have little or no value. In this scenario we would seek to cause the Federal government to reimburse us for all money spent by us and our predecessors for leasing and other costs and for the value of the oil and gas reserves found on the leases through our exploration activities and those of our predecessors.
Scenario 2 Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities as currently permitted, constructed and operated (whichever is less) without additional capacity. This scenario includes modifications to allow processing and transportation of oil and natural gas with different qualities. It is likely that the adoption of this scenario by the industry as the proper course of action for development would result in lower than anticipated costs, but would cause the subject properties to be developed over a significantly extended period of time.
Scenario 3 Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities by constructing additional capacity at existing sites to handle expanded production. This scenario is currently anticipated by our management to be the most reasonable course of action although there is no assurance that this scenario will be adopted.
Scenario 4 Development of existing leases after decommissioning and removal of some or all existing onshore facilities. This scenario includes new facilities, and perhaps new sites, to handle anticipated future production. Under this scenario we would incur increased costs but revenues would be received more quickly.
We have also evaluated our position with regard to the scenarios with respect to properties located in the northern sub-region (which includes the Lion Rock Unit), the results of which are as follows:
Scenario 1 No new development of existing offshore leases. If this scenario were ultimately to be adopted by governmental decision-makers as the proper course of action for development, our offshore California properties would in all likelihood have little or no value. In this scenario we would seek to cause the Federal government to reimburse us for all money spent by us and our predecessors for leasing and other costs and for the value of the oil and gas reserves found on the leases through our exploration activities and those of our predecessors.
Scenario 2 Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities as currently permitted, constructed and operated (whichever is less) without additional capacity. This scenario includes modifications to allow processing and transportation of oil and natural gas with different qualities. It is likely that the adoption of this scenario by the industry as the proper course of action for development would result in lower than anticipated costs, but would cause the subject properties to be developed over a significantly extended period of time.
Scenario 3 Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities by constructing additional capacity at existing sites to handle expanded production. This scenario that is currently anticipated by our management to be the most reasonable course of action although there is no assurance that this scenario will be adopted.
Scenario 4 Development of existing offshore leases, using existing onshore facilities with additional capacity or adding new facilities to handle a relatively low rate of expanded development. This scenario is similar to #3 above but would entail increased costs for any new facilities.
Scenario 5 Development of existing offshore leases, using existing onshore facilities with additional capacity or adding new facilities to handle a relatively higher rate of expanded development. Under this scenario we would incur increased costs but revenues would be received more quickly.
The development plans for the various units (which have been submitted to the MMS for review) currently provide for 22 wells from one platform set in a water depth of approximately 300 feet for the Gato Canyon Unit; 63 wells from one platform set in a water depth of approximately 1,100 feet for the Sword Unit; and 183 wells from two platforms for the Lion Rock Unit (in which we own only a 1% net profits interest and do not own any working interest).
On the Lion Rock Unit, Platform A would be set in a water depth of approximately 507 feet, and Platform B would be set in a water depth of approximately 484 feet. The reach of the deviated wells from each platform required to drain each unit falls within the reach limits now considered to be "state-of-the-art." The development plans for the Rocky Point Unit provide for the inclusion of the Rocky Point leases in the Point Arguello Unit upon which the Rocky Point leases would be drilled from existing Point Arguello platforms with extended reach drilling technology. The approximate distances
required to drain the Rocky Point leases range from 2,276 feet to 13,999 feet at proposed total vertical depths ranging from 6,620 feet to 7,360 feet.
Current Status. On October 15, 1992 the MMS directed a Suspension of Operations (SOO), effective January 1, 1993, for the POCS undeveloped leases and units. The SOO was directed for the purpose of preparing what became known as the COOGER Study. Two-thirds of the cost of the Study was funded by the participating companies in lieu of the payment of rentals on the leases. Additionally, all operations were suspended on the leases during this period. On November 12, 1999, as the COOGER Study drew to a conclusion, the MMS approved requests made by the operating companies for a Suspension of Production (SOP) status for the POCS leases and units. During the period of a SOP, the lease rentals resume and each operator is generally required to perform exploration and development activities in order to meet certain milestones set out by the MMS. The milestones that were established by the MMS for the properties in which we own an interest were established through negotiations by the MMS on behalf of the United States government and the operators on behalf of the working interest owners. We did not directly participate in these negotiations. Until recently, progress toward the milestones was monitored by the operator in quarterly reports submitted to the MMS. In February 2000 all operators completed and timely submitted to the MMS a preliminary "Description of the Proposed Project". This was the first milestone required under the SOP. Quarterly reports were also prepared and submitted for all the subsequent quarters.
On June 22, 2001, however, a Federal Court in the case of California v. Norton, et al (discussed below) ordered the MMS to set aside its approval of the suspensions of our offshore leases and to direct suspensions, including all milestone activities, for a time sufficient for the MMS to provide the State of California with a consistency determination under federal law. As a result of this order, on July 2, 2001 the MMS directed suspensions of operations for all of our offshore California leases for an indefinite period of time and suspended all of the related milestones. The ultimate outcome and effects of this litigation are not certain at the present time. To continue to carry out the requirements of the MMS, all operators of the units in which we own non-operating interests are prepared to meet the next milestone leading to development of the leases, but the status of the milestones is presently uncertain in light of the Norton ruling. The United States government has filed a notice of its intent to appeal the court's order in the Norton case.
On January 9, 2002, we and several other plaintiffs filed a lawsuit in the United States Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C. alleging that the U.S. Government has materially breached the terms of forty undeveloped federal leases, some of which are part of our Offshore California properties. The Complaint is based on allegations by the collective plaintiffs that the United States has materially breached the terms of certain of their Offshore California leases by attempting to deviate significantly from the procedures and standards that were in effect when the leases were entered into, and by failing to carry out its own obligations relating to those leases in a timely and fair manner. More specifically, the plaintiffs have alleged that the judicial determination in the California v. Norton case that a 1990 amendment to the Coastal Zone Management Act required the Government to make a consistency determination prior to granting lease suspension requests in 1999 constitutes a material change in the procedures and standards that were in effect when the leases were issued. The plaintiffs have also alleged that the
United States has failed to afford them the timely and fair review of their lease suspension requests which has resulted in significant, continuing and material delays to their exploratory and development operations.
The forty undeveloped leases are located in the Offshore Santa Maria Basin off the coast of Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo counties, and in the Santa Barbara Channel off Santa Barbara and Ventura counties. None of these leases is currently impaired, but in the event that there is some future adverse ruling by the California Coastal Commission under the Coastal Zone Management Act and we decide not to appeal such ruling to the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary of Commerce either refuses to hear our appeal of any such ruling or ultimately makes a determination adverse to us, it is likely that some or all of these leases would become impaired and written off at that time.
In addition, it should be noted that our pending litigation against the United States is predicated on the ruling of the lower court in California v. Norton. The United States has appealed the decision of the lower court to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. In the event that the United States is not successful in its appeal(s) of the lower court's decision in the Norton case and the pending litigation with us is not settled, it would be necessary for us to reevaluate whether the leases should be considered impaired at that time.
As the ruling in the Norton case currently stands, the United States has been ordered to make a consistency determination under the Coastal Zone Management Act, but the leases are still valid. If through the appellate process the leases are found not to be valid for some reason, or if the United States is finally ordered to make a consistency determination and either does not do so or finds that development is inconsistent with the Coastal Zone Management Act, it would appear that the leases would become impaired even though we would undoubtedly proceed with our litigation. It is also possible that other events could occur during the appellate process that would cause the leases to become impaired, and we will continuously evaluate those factors as they occur.
The suit seeks compensation for the lease bonuses and rentals paid to the Federal Government, exploration costs and related expenses. The total amount claimed by all lessees for bonuses and rentals exceeds $1.2 billion, with additional amounts for exploration costs and related expenses. In addition, our claim for exploration costs and related expenses will also be substantial. In the event, however, that we receive any proceeds as the result of such litigation, we will be obligated to pay a portion of any amount received by us to landowners and other owners of royalties and similar interests, and to pay expenses of litigation and to fulfill certain pre-existing contractual commitments to third parties.
On May 18, 2001 (prior to the Norton decision), a revised Development and Production Plan for the Point Arguello Unit was submitted to the MMS and the California Coastal Commission ("CCC") for approval. If approved by the CCC, this plan would enable development of the Rocky Point Unit from the Point Arguello platforms that are already in existence.
Under law, the CCC is typically required to make a determination as to whether or not the Plan is "consistent" with California's Coastal Plan within
three months of submission, with a maximum of three months' extension (a total of six months). By correspondence dated August 7, 2001, however, the Unit operator requested that the CCC suspend the consistency review for the revised Development and Production Plan since the MMS had temporarily stopped work on the processing of the plan as the result of the Norton decision.
Although it currently appears likely that the CCC may require some additional supplemental information to be provided with respect to some aspects of air and water quality when its review continues, we believe that the Rocky Point Development and Production Plan that was submitted meets the requirements established by applicable federal regulations. In accordance with these regulations, the Plan includes very specific information regarding the planned activities, including a description of and schedule for the development and production activities to be performed, including plan commencement date, date of first production, total time to complete all development and production activities, and dates and sequences for drilling wells and installing facilities and equipment, and a description of the drilling vessels, platforms, pipelines and other facilities and operations located offshore which are proposed or known by the lessee (whether or not owned or operated by the lessee) to be directly related to the proposed development, including the location, size, design, and important safety, pollution prevention, and environmental monitoring features of the facilities and operations. The current Development and Production Plan calls for drilling activities to be conducted from the existing Point Arguello platforms using extended reach drilling techniques with oil and gas production to be transported through existing pipelines to existing onshore production facilities. The plan does not require the construction of new platforms, pipelines or production facilities.
In accordance with applicable federal regulations, the following supporting information accompanies the Development and Production Plan: (1) geological and geophysical data and information, including: (i) a plat showing the surface location of any proposed fixed structure or well; (ii) a plat showing the surface and bottomhole locations and giving the measured and true vertical depths for each proposed well; (iii) current interpretations of relevant geological and geophysical data; (iv) current structure maps showing the surface and bottomhole location of each proposed well and the depths of expected productive formations; (v) interpreted structure sections showing the depths of expected productive formations; (vi) a bathymetric map showing surface locations of fixed structures and wells or a table of water depths at each proposed site; and (vii) a discussion of seafloor conditions including a shallow hazards analysis for proposed drilling and platform sites and pipeline routes.
As required by federal regulations, the information contained in the Plan contains proposed precautionary measures, including a classification of the lease area, a contingency plan, a description of the environmental safeguards to be implemented, including an updated oil-spill response plan; and a discussion of the steps that have been or will be taken to satisfy the conditions of lease stipulations, a description of technology and reservoir engineering practices intended to increase the ultimate recovery of oil and gas, i.e., secondary, tertiary, or other enhanced recovery practices; a description of technology and recovery practices and procedures intended to assure optimum recovery of oil and gas; a discussion of the proposed drilling and completion programs; a detailed description of new or unusual technology
to be employed; and a brief description of the location, description, and size of any offshore and land-based operations to be conducted or contracted for as a result of the proposed activity; including the acreage required in California for facilities, rights-of-way, and easements, the means proposed for transportation of oil and gas to shore; the routes to be followed by each mode of transportation; and the estimated quantities of oil and gas to be moved along such routes; an estimate of the frequency of boat and aircraft departures and arrivals, the onshore location of terminals, and the normal routes for each mode of transportation.
As required, the Plan also provides a list of the proposed drilling fluids, including components and their chemical compositions, information on the projected amounts and rates of drilling fluid and cuttings discharges, and methods of disposal, and specifies the quantities, types, and plans for disposal of other solid and liquid wastes and pollutants likely to be generated by offshore, onshore, and transport operations and, regarding any wastes which may require onshore disposal, the means of transportation to be used to bring the wastes to shore, disposal methods to be utilized, and the location of onshore waste disposal or treatment facilities.
To comply with federal regulations, the Plan also addresses the approximate number of people and families to be added to the population of local nearshore areas as a result of the planned development, provides an estimate of significant quantities of energy and resources to be used or consumed including electricity, water, oil and gas, diesel fuel, aggregate, or other supplies which may be purchased within California, and specifies the types of contractors or vendors which will be needed, although not specifically identified, and which may place a demand on local goods and services.
The Plan also identifies the source, composition, frequency, and duration of emissions of air pollutants and provides a narrative description of the existing environment with an emphasis placed on those environmental values that may be affected by the proposed action. This section of the Plan contains a description of the physical environment of the area covered by the Plan and includes data and information obtained or developed by the lessee together with other pertinent information and data available to the lessee from other sources. The environmental information and data includes a description of the aquatic biota, including fishery and marine mammal use of the lease, the significance of the lease and identifies the threatened and endangered species and their critical habitat.
The Plan also addresses environmentally sensitive areas (e.g., refuges, preserves, sanctuaries, rookeries, calving grounds, coastal habitats, beaches, and areas of particular environmental concern) which may be affected by the proposed activities, the pre-development, ambient water-column quality and temperature data for incremental depths for the areas encompassed by the plan, the physical oceanography, including ocean currents described as to prevailing direction, seasonal variations, and variations at different water depths in the lease, and describes historic weather patterns and other meteorological conditions, including storm frequency and magnitude, wave height and direction, wind direction and velocity, air temperature, visibility, freezing and icing conditions, and ambient air quality listing, where possible, the means and extremes of each.
The Plan further identifies other uses of the area, including military use for national security or defense, subsistence hunting and fishing, commercial fishing, recreation, shipping, and other mineral exploration or development and describes the existing and planned monitoring systems that are measuring or will measure impacts of activities on the environment in the planning area. As required, the Plan provides an assessment of the effects on the environment expected to occur as a result of implementation of the Plan, and identifies specific and cumulative impacts that may occur both onshore and offshore, and describes the measures proposed to mitigate these impacts. These impacts are quantified to the fullest extent possible including magnitude and duration and are accumulated for all activities for each of the major elements of the environment (e.g., water and biota). The Plan also provides a discussion of alternatives to the activities proposed that were considered during the development of the Plan, including a comparison of the environmental effects.
As required, the Plan provides certain supporting information with respect to the projected emissions from each proposed or modified facility for each year of operation and the bases for all calculations, including, for each source, the amount of the emission by air pollutant expressed in tons per year and frequency and duration of emissions; for each proposed facility, the total amount of emissions by air pollutant expressed in tons per year, the frequency distribution of total emissions by air pollutant expressed in pounds per day and, in addition for a modified facility only, the incremental amount of total emissions by air pollutant resulting from the new or modified source(s); and a detailed description of all processes, processing equipment and storage units, including information on fuels to be burned; and a schematic drawing which identifies the location and elevation of each source.
To carry out the requirements of the MMS when they resume, all operators of the units in which we own non-operating interests are prepared to complete any studies and project planning necessary to commence development of the leases. Where additional drilling is needed, the operators will bring a mobile drilling unit to the POCS to further delineate the undeveloped oil and gas fields.
Cost to Develop Offshore California Properties. The cost to develop all of the offshore California properties in which we own an interest, including delineation wells, environmental mitigation, development wells, fixed platforms, fixed platform facilities, pipelines and power cables, onshore facilities and platform removal over the life of the properties (assumed to be 38 years), is estimated to be slightly in excess of $3 billion. Our share of such costs over the life of the properties is estimated to be approximately $27,000,000.
To the extent that we do not have sufficient cash available to pay our share of expenses when they become payable under the respective operating agreements, it will be necessary for us to seek funding from outside sources. Likely potential sources for such funding are currently anticipated to include (a) public and private sales of our Common Stock (which may result in substantial ownership dilution to existing shareholders), (b) bank debt from one or more commercial oil and gas lenders, (c) the sale of debt instruments to investors, (d) entering into farm-out arrangements with respect to one or more of our interests in the properties whereby the recipient of the farm-out would pay the full amount of our share of expenses and we would retain a
carried ownership interest (which would result in a substantial diminution of our ownership interest in the farmed-out properties), (e) entering into one or more joint venture relationships with industry partners, (f) entering into financing relationships with one or more industry partners, and (g) the sale of some or all of our interests in the properties.
It is unlikely that any one potential source of funding would be utilized exclusively. Rather, it is more likely that we will pursue a combination of different funding sources when the need arises. Regardless of the type of financing techniques that are ultimately utilized, however, it currently appears likely that because of our small size in relation to the magnitude of the capital requirements that will be associated with the development of the subject properties, we will be forced in the future to issue significant amounts of additional shares, pay significant amounts of interest on debt that presumably would be collateralized by all of our assets (including our offshore California properties), reduce our ownership interest in the properties through sales of interests in the property or as the result of farmouts, industry financing arrangements or other partnership or joint venture relationships, or to enter into various transactions which will result in some combination of the foregoing. In the event that we are not able to pay our share of expenses as a working interest owner as required by the respective operating agreements, it is possible that we might lose some portion of our ownership interest in the properties under some circumstances, or that we might be subject to penalties which would result in the forfeiture of substantial revenues from the properties.
While the costs to develop the offshore California properties in which we own an interest are anticipated to be substantial in relation to our small size, management believes that the opportunities for us to increase our asset base and ultimately improve our cash flow are also substantial in relation to our size. Although there are several factors to be considered in connection with our plans to obtain funding from outside sources as necessary to pay our proportionate share of the costs associated with developing our offshore properties (not the least of which is the possibility that prices for petroleum products could decline in the future to a point at which development of the properties is no longer economically feasible), we believe that the timing and rate of development in the future will in large part be motivated by the prices paid for petroleum products.
To the extent that prices for petroleum products were to decline below their recent levels, it is likely that development efforts will proceed at a slower pace such that costs will be incurred over a more extended period of time. If petroleum prices remain at current levels, however, we believe that development efforts will intensify. Our ability to successfully negotiate financing to pay our share of development costs on favorable terms will be inextricably linked to the prices that are paid for petroleum products during the time period in which development is actually occurring on each of the subject properties.
Gato Canyon Unit. We hold a 6.97% working interest, with capitalized costs of $3,170,886, in the Gato Canyon Unit. This 10,100 acre unit is operated by Samedan Oil Corporation. Seven test wells have been drilled on the Gato Canyon structure. Five of these were drilled within the boundaries of the Unit and two were drilled outside the Unit boundaries in the adjacent State Tidelands. The test wells were drilled as follows: within the
boundaries of the Unit; three wells were drilled by Exxon, two in 1968 and one in 1969; one well was drilled by Arco in 1985; and, one well was drilled by Samedan in 1989. Outside the boundaries of the Unit, in the State Tidelands but still on the Gato Canyon Structure, one well was drilled by Mobil in 1966 and one well was drilled by Union Oil in 1967. In April 1989, Samedan tested the P-0460 #2 which yielded a combined test flow rate of 5,160 Bbls of oil per day from six intervals in the Monterey Formation between 5,880 and 6,700 feet of drilled depth. The Monterey Formation is a highly fractured shale formation. The Monterey (which ranges from 500' to 2,900' in thickness) is the main productive and target zone in many offshore California oil fields (including our federal leases and/or units).
The Gato Canyon field is located in the Santa Barbara Channel approximately three to five miles offshore (see Map). Water depths range from 280 feet to 600 feet in the area of the field. Oil and gas produced from the field is anticipated to be processed onshore at the existing Las Flores Canyon facility (see Map). Las Flores Canyon has been designated a "consolidated site" by Santa Barbara County and is available for use by offshore operators. Any processed oil is expected to be transported out of Santa Barbara County in the All American Pipeline (see Map). Offshore pipeline distances to access the Las Flores site is approximately six miles. Our share of the estimated capital costs to develop the Gato Canyon field is approximately $20 million.
As a result of the Norton case, the Gato Canyon Unit leases are under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. An updated Exploration Plan is expected to include plans to drill an additional delineation well when activities are resumed. This well will be used to determine the final location of the development platform. Following the platform decision, a Development Plan will be prepared for submittal to the MMS and the other involved agencies. Two to three years will likely be required to process the Development Plan and receive the necessary approvals.
Lion Rock Unit. We hold a 1% net profits interest, with capitalized costs of $1,554,898, in the Lion Rock Unit. The Lion Rock Unit is operated by Aera Energy LLC.
The Lion Rock Unit is located in the Offshore Santa Maria Basin eight to ten miles from the coastline (see Map). Water depths range from 300 feet to 600 feet in the area of the field. It is anticipated that any oil and gas produced at Lion Rock would be processed at a new facility in the onshore Santa Maria Basin or at the existing Lompoc facility (see Map) and would be transported out of Santa Barbara County in the All American Pipeline or the Tosco-Unocal Pipeline (see Map). Offshore pipeline distance will be eight to ten miles depending on the point of landfill.
As a result of the Norton case, the Lion Rock Unit is held under a directed suspension of operations with no specified end date. It is anticipated that upon the resumption of activities there will be an interpretation of the 3D seismic survey and the preparation of an updated Plan of Development leading to production. Additional delineation wells may or may not be drilled depending on the outcome of the interpretation of the 3D survey.
Sword Unit. We hold a .87% working interest, with capitalized costs of $280,776, in the Sword Unit. This 12,240 acre unit is operated by Conoco,
Inc. In aggregate, three wells have been drilled on this unit of which two wells were completed and tested in the Monterey formation with calculated flow rates of from 4,000 to 5,000 Bbls per day with an estimated average gravity of 10.6E API. The two completed test wells were drilled by Conoco, one in 1982 and the second in 1985.
The Sword field is located in the western Santa Barbara Channel ten miles west of Point Conception and five miles south of Point Arguello field's Platform Hermosa (see Map). Water depths range from 1000 feet to 1800 feet in the area of the field. It is anticipated that the oil and gas produced from the Sword Field will likely be processed at the existing Gaviota consolidated facility and the oil would then be transported out of Santa Barbara County in the All American Pipeline (see Map). Access to the Gaviota plant is through Platform Hermosa and the existing Point Arguello Pipeline system. A pipeline proposed to be laid from a platform located in the northern area of the Sword field to Platform Hermosa would be approximately five miles in length. Our share of the estimated capital costs to develop the Sword field is approximately $7 million.
As a result of the Norton case, the Sword Unit leases are held under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. An updated Exploration Plan is expected to include plans to drill an additional delineation well when activities are resumed.
On January 9, 2002, we filed a lawsuit against the U.S. government along with several other companies alleging that the government breached the terms of some of our undeveloped, offshore California properties. See "Legal Proceedings."
- --------------
map insert
- --------------
(c) Production ----------
Since we sold our producing properties, we no longer have any sales contracts in place. During the last three fiscal years we have not had, nor do we now have, any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or authorities pursuant to which we acted as producer. The following table sets forth our average sales prices and average production costs during the periods indicated:
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended June 30, 2003 June 30, 2002 June 30, 2001 ------------- ------------- ------------- Average sales price: Oil (per barrel) $ - $ - $29.61 Natural Gas (per Mcf) - - 4.85 Production costs (per Mcf equivalent) - - 1.96
The profitability of our oil and gas production activities is affected by the fluctuations in the sale prices of our oil and gas production. (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Plan of Operations").
Impairment of Long Lived Assets -------------------------------
Unproved Undeveloped Offshore California Properties ---------------------------------------------------
We acquired many of our offshore properties in a series of transactions from 1992 to the present. These properties are carried at our cost bases and have been subject to an impairment review on an annual basis.
These properties will be expensive to develop and produce and have been subject to significant regulatory restrictions and delays. Substantial quantities of hydrocarbons are believed to exist based on estimates reported to us by the operator of the properties and the U.S. government's Mineral Management Services. The classification of these properties depends on many assumptions relating to commodity prices, development costs and timetables. We annually consider impairment of properties assuming that properties will be developed. Based on the range of possible development and production scenarios using current prices and costs, we have concluded that the cost bases of our offshore properties are not impaired at this time. There are no assurances, however, that when and if development occurs, we will recover the value of our investment in such properties.
(d) Productive Wells and Acreage ----------------------------
As of June 30, 2003 we had no producing oil and gas wells or developed acreage. Productive wells are producing wells capable of production, including shut-in wells. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assignable to productive wells.
(e) Undeveloped Acreage -------------------
At June 30, 2003, we held undeveloped acreage by state as set forth below:
Undeveloped Acres (1) Location Gross Net -------- ----- ---
California (1) 22,340 811
(1) Consists of Federal leases offshore near Santa Barbara, California.
(f) Drilling Activities -------------------
During the year ended June 30, 2003, we did not participate in any drilling activities.
ITEM 3.