ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
SUMMARY
Double Eagle has leasehold interests in 504,899 gross acres, constituting 217,410 net acres, in what we believe are natural gas prone basins of the Rocky Mountains and Nevada. Two developing areas, the Pinedale Anticline and the eastern Washakie Coal Bed natural gas play, accounted for over 89% of our proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2005, and over 89% of our 2005 production. In 2006, we plan to drill 34 development wells in the Eastern Washakie and be involved in at least seven development wells on the Pinedale Anticline. We believe that we also will be involved in several wells to be drilled by Anadarko in the Eastern Washakie, but we have not been informed of Anadarko’s specific plans. In addition, we plan to drill exploratory tests at Christmas Meadows, South Fillmore and Cow Creek in the Greater Green River Basin as well as an exploratory test on the Rattlesnake Prospect in the Powder River Basin. Potentially, we may be involved in two wildcats in our new prospect area, the Huntington Valley in Nevada. If we are offered and accept participation in the Madison Participating Area at Madden Field, we will have a small working interest in a 25,000 foot Madison development well. This will be a very busy year for us.
Acreage by Geologic Basin
EASTERN WASHAKIE COAL BED NATURAL GAS PROJECT
Since the first test of the Mesaverde coal beds along the eastern edge of the Washakie Basin in south central Wyoming during the year 2000 to test the economic viability of the play, 124 wells have been drilled by Anadarko et al and 14 wells have been drilled by Double Eagle. Double Eagle operates these 14 wells in the Cow Creek Field that produced 2.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas in 2005 or an average of 430,000 Mcf of natural gas per day per well. This resulted in net sales volumes to Double Eagle of 1.65 bcf in 2005, which represented 54% of our production from all of our properties. These wells have been very economic, but we cannot continue development until an environmental impact study (EIS) is completed. It now appears that the EIS will be completed by October 2006, when we plan to start drilling with two rigs and proceed to drill, over a period of at least three years, as many as 268 gross new wells, which would constitute 110 net new wells to our interest. We have constructed a pipeline to carry the future gas from these wells and we plan to have electric power into the field by November 2006.
History
This play is a 40-mile long trend located in south central Wyoming, from the town of Baggs at the south end, and to the town of Rawlins at the north end. A total of 138 wells have been drilled either by us or Anadarko to evaluate the potential of the Mesaverde coal beds in this trend. The Mesaverde coals in this area differ from those found in the Powder River Basin in that they are thinner zones, but have higher gas content much like the coal beds found in the Uinta Basin of Utah where there are several very successful coal bed projects. Nevertheless, the productivity of coal beds is dependent not only on specific natural gas content, but also on favorable permeability to natural gas. The fourteen wells that Double Eagle produces have good permeability as they average more than a thousand barrels of water per day per well. The Company has acquired interests in 53,570 gross acres (30,387 net acres) and controls operations on over 260 undrilled locations on 80 acre spacing. The following descriptions are of development areas along the fairway for this play.
Cow Creek Field
We acquired a 100% working interest in the Cow Creek Field in the heart of the Eastern Washakie Coal Bed Natural Gas Project from KCS Mountain Resources in April 1999. The field had one producing gas well, the Cow Creek #1-12, which was producing, sporadically, 140,000 cubic feet of gas per day from the Dakota and Frontier Formations at 8,000 feet. In the year 2000, we re-completed two wells in the Mesaverde coals. One of these wells produced at an average rate of 58,000 cubic feet per day during August 2000. The other well was converted to a water injection well. We drilled four additional locations in August 2001 and began selling gas in November 2001. While drilling the wells, we encountered excellent gas shows and the coals were cored to evaluate the gas content. We drilled four additional wells in September 2002, and we completed and connected them to the sales line in November 2002. We drilled five additional wells in the fall of 2003, and began producing them in 2004. On January 1, 2005, fourteen coal bed wells, produced 5.679 MMcf of natural gas and sold 5.252 MMcf of natural gas. On January 1, 2006, thirteen wells (one well was being worked over) produced 5.154 MMcf of natural gas and sold 4.535 MMcf of natural gas. The water to gas ratio is dropping in each of the wells, although the volume of water has not diminished significantly. The five wells drilled around the existing producing wells in the fall of 2003 have helped draw down the reservoir pressure, and we believe they will increase the gas volumes along the crest of the structure. Additional drilling is currently on hold until the Environmental Impact Study is completed, which is expected in the third quarter of 2006. Total gas sales at the Cow Creek Unit to us were .490 billion cubic feet net in 2003, 1.448 billion cubic feet net to us in 2004, and 1.646 billion cubic feet net to us in 2005. We look forward to being able to drill additional wells in this pod and significantly expand our production from this play.
Sun Dog Unit
The Sun Dog Unit is adjacent to and east of Cow Creek Field. Anadarko operates the 23,468 acre Unit where Double Eagle owns 3,886 gross and 2,045 net acres of working interest. We own 4.55% working interest in the 1,766 acre Participation Area established for the first coal bed natural gas production in the Unit. This Participation Area associated working interest will change as more wells and acreage are added to the Participation Area. Anadarko initially drilled ten wells in which we have originally had no financial interest. The ten wells have been producing since July 2002 and appear to have started the desorption process. In 2005, Anadarko drilled two additional producers on acreage in which we had an interest. The Participating Area, was then established to include our two original wells and the 10 Anadarko producers. The success of this area, which is not as structurally advantaged as Cow Creek, helps in evaluating our similar acreage. Additional drilling is scheduled in the Sun Dog Unit after completion of the Environmental Impact Statement. During 2005, the twelve wells at the Sun Dog Unit produced a total of 1.485 bcf of gas, or an average of 370 mcf per well per day. In December 2005, the twelve wells averaged 420 mcf per day per well.
Doty Mountain - Unit
The Doty Mountain Unit is a 24,817 unit where Double Eagle owns 3,280 gross and 3,280 net acres of leasehold working interest. We own a 26.21% working interest in the 3,244 acre Participation Area established for the first coal bed natural gas production in the Unit. This Participation Area and the associated working interest will change as more wells and acreage are added to the Participation Area. This unit is a coal bed natural gas pilot project located six miles to the northeast of the Cow Creek Field. Anadarko drilled and completed 24 wells in this pod and completed the infrastructure at the end of 2004.
Gas sales began in March 2005. The Mesaverde coals at Doty Mountain were thicker than at Cow Creek and had higher gas contents. Permeability was measured at over 150 millidarcies in the main coal. We are optimistic about this project, and we have 26.21% working interest in the twenty-four wells in the Participating Area. These wells are dewatering and produced a total of .287 bcf in 2005. In December 2005, the twenty four wells averaged 57 mcf per day per well.
Other Units
We also have small interests in the Brown Cow, Jolly Roger and Red Rim Units that are all operated by Anadarko. As of December 31, 2005, no significant gas sales had occurred from these units.
Eastern Washakie Exploratory Tests
Cow Creek Deep
We plan to drill a 12,360 foot test at Cow Creek Field to test the Tensleep Sandstone and the Madison Limestone. This test is scheduled to spud April 1, 2006 with a contracted drilling rig which will be used at Christmas Meadows around June 1, 2006. In 1959, Sohio drilled the Cow Creek Unit #1 well to the Tensleep and tested natural gas. Sohio elected to produce the much more prolific and permeable Nugget Sandstone at 9,600 feet and the Tensleep was never completed. Log calculations indicate pay in the Tensleep and, combined with our 3-D seismic survey, a location has been selected at what we believe to be the top of the Cow Creek Anticline. Additional production from the Tensleep, if any, would have access to the new pipeline that we constructed last year and went into operation in January 2006. We believe there is additional potential in the shallower Muddy, Frontier and Niobrara sections that have produced or had good shows in previous drilling in the field.
South Fillmore
On March 2, 2006, we began drilling an 8,000 foot Mesaverde test on our South Fillmore Prospect, which is twelve miles north of Cow Creek Field. We are operating the well and have a 66% working interest. The prospect includes six sections of leases encompassing 3,840 acres and a farmout from Anadarko and Warren Resources on two additional sections encompassing 1,280 acres. We are targeting the Lewis Sandstones and the Mesaverde Sandstones and coals where we believe that potential is indicated from previous drilling in the area.
GREEN RIVER BASIN
Pinedale Anticline
Summary
In 2005, five new wells were drilled on acreage in which we own an interest on the Pinedale Anticline. In 2006, seven new wells are planned on acreage in which we have an interest. On December 31, 2005, we had an interest in 53 producing wells on the Pinedale Anticline. With ten acre spacing approved in the area, there are over one hundred drillable locations on leasehold in the three Mesa Unit Participating Areas on the Pinedale Anticline.
History
The Pinedale Anticline is in southwestern Wyoming, 10 miles south of the town of Pinedale. In the late 1960s, a subsidiary of Questar Corporation, Wexpro, drilled three wells in the Mesa Unit. The wells encountered gas, but the tight formations would not yield gas at a commercial rate. We entered the Pinedale Anticline in 1991, acquiring working and overriding royalty interests from Arco. We also acquired undeveloped leasehold acreage that we sold to Ultra in 1997, retaining an overriding royalty interest. In September 1998, we acquired additional working interests from KCS Mountain Resources. The area remained idle until late 1997 when a new operator, Ultra Petroleum, drilled three wells and used new fracture stimulation techniques developed 20 miles south in the prolific Jonah Field.
The production rates were substantially greater than with prior efforts. Wexpro’s sister company, Questar Exploration, took over operations from Ultra on the Mesa Unit lands and began an aggressive development project. Two of the first three wells in this project were drilled on leasehold in the Mesa “B” Participating Area in which we have an interest. The first well drilled by Questar, the Mesa #3, reached total depth of 13,055 feet on October 4, 1999. The Mesa #3 and the subsequent Mesa #6 well were both completed with initial production rates in excess of 11 MMcf per day. In 2005, the three Participating Areas of the Mesa Unit produced a total of 21.9 Bcf of natural gas and 171,878 barrels of oil. Our net production from the Mesa Unit in 2005 was 1,050 MMcf and 7555 barrels of oil. This is a 34% increase over 2004.
In the Mesa “A” Participating Area, where we have an overriding royalty interest, there were 15 producing wells that produced a total of 20 MMcf of natural gas and 167 barrels of oil in 2005 to our interest. Our overriding royalty interest is .312%, with a net acre position of at least 1.875 net acres under a gross of 600 acres in the “A” Participating Area.
In the Mesa “B” Participating Area, where we have an 8% working interest in the shallow producing formations and a 12.5% working interest in the deep producing formations, there were 29 producing wells that produced 752 MMcf of natural gas and 7,178 barrels of oil in 2005 to our interest. We have a net acre position of 100 net acres under a gross of 800 acres in the deep formations in the “B” Participating Area and 64 net acres under a gross of 800 acres in the shallower producing formations. Our current working interest in the producing wells averages approximately 8.75 %.
In the Mesa “C” Participating Area, where we have a carried 6.4% working interest after payout, 9 wells produced 278 MMcf and 210 barrels of oil in 2005 to our interest. We have 65.27 net acres under a gross of 1,000 acres in the “C” Participating Area. Payout is on a block basis and will occur whenever profits exceed costs within the participating area. Therefore, it appears that we will move in and out of payout as additional wells are drilled. As of December 31, 2005, we are in a paid out status.
At year end, we had working interests or overriding royalty interests in 4,840 acres in and around this developing natural gas field. An expansion of the Kern River Pipeline, which was completed in May 2003, connects this field to a large and expanding gas market in southern California. It is anticipated that this property will continue to produce significant revenues for us in the foreseeable future.
Christmas Meadows
Christmas Meadows is a structural dome in the southwest corner of the prolific Green River Basin, in Summit County, Utah. The dome is overlain by the Wyoming Overthrust Belt and the North Flank Thrust of the Uinta Mountains. In 2005, after nearly ten years of addressing various regulatory hurdles in this environmentally sensitive area, we and our partner, John Lockridge, began preparing this prospect for drilling. Dirt work was completed and 34 inch conductor pipe was set at a depth of 235 feet. Unit Drilling Company Rig #233 has been signed up to move in to drill this 16,000 foot test on June 1, 2006. Partners have been signed up, leaving us with just under 25% working interest before payout and over 30% working interest after payout.
The Christmas Meadows Prospect has a long history. In the 1970s Gulf noted the structure on a regional seismic grid. Further seismic surveys by Gulf, American Quasar, Amoco, Chevron, Sohio, and others support the existence of the structural dome. Amoco staked a location to test the structure to 19,000 feet in 1982, but had still not been issued a permit in 1986 when it abandoned its efforts. We acquired our first leasehold in the prospect in 1984. Chevron formed a federal unit in 1989 and staked a well but abandoned its efforts in 1994 after not getting a permit or offset acreage offered for sale. Chevron turned the project over to Amerac, who designated us as its agent. We have purchased the Chevron leasehold and have farmouts from Amerac (now Unit Corp.) and Judy Yates, and finally acquired the open offset acreage at a BLM auction in November 2003. Combined with new leases purchased at lease sales, we and Lockridge have interests in 41,237 gross acres, of which 22,875 gross acres are included in the Table Top Federal Exploratory Unit.
Prospective formations range from depths of 4,000 to 23,000 feet, and range in age from Mississippian to Cretaceous. Source rocks, reservoir rocks, structural timing, seal, as well as structure all remain to be determined through the drill bit, but we are encouraged by our analysis of analogous fields in the Wyoming Overthrust Belt and the Green River Basin. The initial well is projected to a depth of 16,000 feet, and we believe it has a high risk, high reward potential. There is also engineering risk to consider, as there is a time deadline once operations commence and the overlying structure is complex and potentially difficult to drill.
We have expended considerable resources in preparing to drill this prospect. The update of the EIS was completed in January 2005, clearing the final regulatory hurdle to commence operations.
Along with our partners, we have acquired licenses to six 2D seismic lines, or 60 miles. Five of the lines, or 53 miles, were reprocessed with state-of-the-art pre-stack depth migration. Imaging and understanding of the structure has improved as a result, although the structure map appears very similar to Chevron’s and American Quasar’s efforts.
WIND RIVER BASIN
Located in central Wyoming, the Wind River Basin is home to Wyoming’s first oil production, which began in 1884. Since that time, numerous fields have been discovered in the Basin, including two very large natural gas accumulations, the Madden Anticline and the Cave Gulch Fields. We have interests in 26,487 gross acres, constituting 2,068 net acres, of leases in this Basin. We have been notified by Burlington that in 2006, we will be offered an interest in the Madison Participating Area and the gas plant at Madden Field. This appears to be an excellent opportunity at the present natural gas prices. The Madison Participating Area produced 10.7 billion cubic feet of gas in December 2006 from seven wells. These are long lived wells with large producing rates and reserves. If we are able to obtain this interest in the Madison Participating Area, of which there is no assurance, it could potentially add approximately 10% to our daily production at an initial cost of approximately $3.5 million.
Madden Anticline
The Madden Anticline is located in central Wyoming, 65 miles west of the town of Casper. The anticline is 20 miles long and six miles wide laying in the deepest part of the Wind River Basin. Two large natural gas fields, Madden and Long Butte, are being drilled and developed on the anticline. The Madden and Long Butte Units were merged in 2004, but the Long Butte Unit Mesaverde and Cody Participating Areas have remained separate and are operated by Moncrief. The Madden Unit is operated by Burlington Resources Inc. We own an approximate 16.67 % working interest in 734.25 acres on the anticline that potentially could be included in the Madison participating area. With the current approved participating area, 504.74 gross acres (84.14 net acres) would be included in the 24,087.59 acre participating area. If this proves to be correct with further title work, we would have a 0.3493 % working interest in the deep participating area. We also own interests, which are restricted in depth and size, in over 12,000 additional acres on the Madden Anticline.
Madden Field and Long Butte Field
In 2005, the Madden Field was combined with the Long Butte Field, and produced over 163 Bcf of natural gas, making the field’s cumulative production over 1.3 trillion cubic feet from six formations at depths of 3,000 to 25,000 feet. In 2005, our net production at Madden was 35,441 Mcfe. The unit’s primary operator, Burlington Resources, plans to drill a number of additional wells to produce from the lower Fort Union and the deep Madison. We operate and produce from one lower Fort Union well and one upper Fort Union well. We will produce these two wells to evaluate the potential for offsets.
Because the Long Butte Field was combined with Madden Field, we will have the opportunity to participate in the deep Paleozoic producing wells and the associated gas plant. We are currently evaluating the economics of paying the costs of joining this large and expensive producing area.
South Sand Draw
The South Sand Draw Field is located in the southern portion of the Wind River Basin approximately 36 miles southeast of Riverton, Wyoming. We have been acquiring leases near the field for five years and currently have 1,495 acres under lease, in which our working interest is 75%. In October 1999, we and our partner acquired the final lease and drilled a 6,500 foot test well in Spring 2001. The South Sand Draw Unit #11-36 was completed as a Muddy Sandstone producer and in October 2001 began selling gas. Additional drillable prospects exist on the east side of our leasehold and may be drilled in 2006, although a final decision has not been made. Our net production at South Sand Draw was 15,789 Mcf in 2005.
POWDER RIVER BASIN
Rattlesnake Prospect
We plan to drill an exploratory test on the Rattlesnake Prospect in the Powder River Basin in northeastern Wyoming. We will operate the project with a 33% working interest in this 7,200 foot wildcat well located twenty six miles north of Casper, Wyoming. The Rattlesnake Prospect, in Township 38 North, Range 79 West, Natrona County, is targeted to test the Pennsylvanian Tensleep Formation.
This seismically defined prospect is located in a sparsely drilled area of the Casper Arch on the west flank of the Powder River Basin. The seismic indicates a closed anticline structurally high to a well that was drilled by Sohio in 1954 and that recorded oil shows in the Tensleep.
We have one third working interest in 5,196 gross acres, which constitute 1,731 net acres, of leases that cover the prospect. Drilling of the exploratory test is scheduled for Summer 2006.
Nevada
Double Eagle has leased 129,575 gross acres, 127,340 net acres, in the Huntington Valley in Elko and White Pine Counties, Nevada. This area was chosen because of excellent hydrocarbon source rock in both the Tertiary and Paleozoic rocks and high heat flow to generate natural gas, as well as certain natural gas shows incurred in limited previous drilling. This, combined with the indication that a mid basin structural high area exist, made the open acreage position look attractive. We hope that two wells will be drilled in the basin in 2006 by other operators and that we will participate to some extent in both these wells.
Mining Claims
Zeolite Claims
Since 1972, we have owned mining claims covering 320 acres of land in Lander County, Nevada and 640 acres of land in Owyhee County, Idaho. Due to natural outcrops, other sampling and analysis, the claims are believed to overlie significant deposits of clinoptilolite, which is one of 34 naturally occurring zeolites. Although the existence of these deposits has been indicated for some time, no commercial mining operations have been conducted on the claims because significant markets for zeolites have not yet been developed. Zeolites currently are utilized commercially for small consumption items such as cat litter, deodorant and aquarium filter material, but the amount of consumption from these markets has not justified large scale production to date. In 2001, we had the opportunity to submit bids to supply zeolite for several wastewater projects. While we were not successful in securing these particular bids, we will continue to respond to opportunities of this nature. We also joined with another company to formulate a Zeolite/Bentonite mixture designed as an improved cat litter. We intend to continue our efforts to find an industrial use for our zeolites.
Acreage
The following tables set forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases in which the Company had working interests and royalty interests as of December 31, 2005. The category of “Undeveloped Acreage” in the tables includes leasehold interests that may have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
Working Interests
Royalty Interests
(1)
Developed acreage is acreage assigned to producing wells for the spacing unit of the producing formation. Developed acreage in certain of the Company’s properties that include multiple formations with different well spacing requirements may be considered undeveloped for certain formations, but have only been included as developed acreage in the presentation above.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Substantially all of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing leases are renewed or production has been obtained from the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the gross and net acres subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Reserves
The reserve estimates at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 presented below were reviewed by Netherland, Sewell and Associates. All reserves are located within the continental United States. The reserve estimates are developed using geological and engineering data and interests and burdens information developed by the Company. Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, prices of oil and gas, and other factors. The outside reserve engineers reviewed over 99% of our reserves. The notes following the table should be read in connection with the reserve estimates.
Oil & Gas Reserve Estimates (1)
(1)
The Company’s annual reserve reports are prepared as of the last day of the Company’s fiscal year.
(4)
The Present Value of Estimated Future Net Revenues After Income Taxes, Discounted At 10%, is referred to as the “Standardized Measure” shown on pages and.
Reference should be made to the supplemental oil and gas information included in this Form 10-K for additional information pertaining to the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves as of the end of each of the last three fiscal years.
Production
The following table sets forth oil and gas production from our net interests in producing properties for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Our oil and gas production is sold on the spot market or sold at the monthly index except for six firm commitment contracts. These contracts commit us to sell 790,000 MMbtus of gas related to these contracts over a 15 month period. The quantity, term and price per MMbtu, per contract, are as follows:
During the year ended December 31, 2005, purchases by Summit Energy, LLC approximated 68% of our total revenues. We believe that we would be able to locate alternate customers in the event of the loss of this customer.
Productive Wells
The following table categorizes certain information concerning the productive wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2005. We operate 26 wells in the state of Wyoming. We do not operate producing wells in any other state.
Drilling Activity
We drilled or participated in the drilling of wells as set forth in the following table for the periods indicated. In certain of the wells in which we participate, we have an overriding royalty interest and no working interest.
All our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis with independent drilling contractors.
Reserve Replacement Costs
For the year ended December 31, 2005, we increased our reserves by 15.7 Bcfe. During the same period, we expended $10.3 million in finding and development costs, defined as development and exploration costs incurred by the Company during 2005. This activity resulted in a one year finding and development cost in 2005 of $.66 per Mcfe. “Finding and development costs per mcfe” is a ratio determined by dividing our annual development and exploration costs incurred by total proved reserve additions, including both developed and undeveloped reserves.
We use this ratio as one indicator of the overall effectiveness of exploration and development activities. In determining the ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, total proved reserve additions consisted of the following (expressed in mcfe):
Proved reserves were added in each of 2005, 2004 and 2003 through both gross-incremental additions associated with our higher density spacing of prospective drilling locations on our properties, as well as through our development drilling activities.
Our finding and development cost per mcfe measure has certain limitations. Consistent with industry practice, our finding and development costs have historically fluctuated on a year-to-year basis based on a number of factors including the extent and timing of new discoveries and property acquisitions. Due to the timing of proved reserve additions and timing of the related costs incurred to find and develop our reserves, our finding and development costs per mcfe measure often includes quantities of reserves for which a majority of the costs of development have not yet been incurred. Conversely, the measure also often includes costs to develop proved reserves that had been added in earlier years. Finding and development costs, as measured annually, may not be indicative of our ability to economically replace oil and natural gas reserves because the recognition of costs may not necessarily coincide with the addition of proved reserves. Our finding and development costs per mcfe may also be calculated differently than the comparable measure for other oil and gas companies. Proved undeveloped reserves represented 42%, 75%, and 23% of the increase in total reserves added in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in proved undeveloped reserves is largely attributed to two areas, Double Eagle’s operated field at Cow Creek, and the Mesa C, a non operated field, where Double Eagle’s carried working interest paid out in April 2004. After an Environmental Impact Study is completed and filed which occurred in 2005, Double Eagle intends to continue its development drilling program at Cow Creek in 2006. Drilling on the Mesa C Unit is expected to continue over the next five years during which time the drilling of 20 new wells is planned.
ITEM 3.