ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Production History
Ninotsminda
The Ninotsminda Field was discovered and initial development began in 1979. Current average gross field production for the month of January 2008 was approximately 425 bopd. Gross and net production from the Ninotsminda Field for the past three years was as follows:
(1)
PSC Entitlement Volumes attributed to CanArgo are calculated using the “economic interest method” applied to the terms of the production sharing contract. PSC Entitlement Volumes are those produced volumes which, through the production sharing contract, accrue to the benefit of the contractor party after deduction of Georgian Oil’s share which includes all Georgian taxes, levies and duties. Ninotsminda Oil Company Limited (“NOC”) owns 100% of the contractor’s interest in the PSC. As a result of CanArgo’s interest in NOC, these volumes accrue to the benefit of CanArgo for the recovery of capital, repayment of operating costs and share of profit.
Samgori
Between April 2004 and February 16, 2006 we had a 50% interest in the Samgori (Block XI B) Production Sharing Contract (“Samgori PSC”) in Georgia. We terminated our interest with effect from February 16, 2006.
The gross and net production for the period in which we had an interest in the Samgori PSC including the period January 1, 2006 to February 16, 2006 was as follows:
(2)
PSC Entitlement Volumes attributed to CanArgo are calculated using the “economic interest method” applied to the terms of the production sharing contract. PSC Entitlement Volumes are those produced volumes which, through the production sharing contract, accrue to the benefit of the contractor parties after deduction of Georgian Oil’s share which includes all Georgian taxes, levies and duties. CanArgo Samgori Limited (“CSL”) owned 50% of the contractor’s interest in the PSC. As a result of CanArgo’s interest in CSL, these volumes accrued to the benefit of CanArgo for the recovery of capital, repayment of operating costs and share of profit.
We ceased to have an interest in this project on February 16, 2006.
Productive Wells and Acreage
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 with respect to NOC the number of productive oil and gas wells and the total developed acreage for the Ninotsminda Field. Such information has been presented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in NOC.
On December 31, 2007, there were no other productive wells or developed acreage within the Ninotsminda PSC area except for one gross well on the West Rustavi Field which was shut-in at that date.
The only other productive wells or developed acreage on any of our other Georgian properties were within the Samgori PSC area on the Samgori Field. This information below as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is presented on a net basis representing our 100% interest in CSL which in turn had a 50% interest in the Samgori PSC. Our interest in the Samgori PSC was terminated with effect from February 16, 2006.
Reserves
Ninotsminda Field, Georgia
The following table summarizes net hydrocarbon reserves for the Ninotsminda Field in Georgia. This information is derived from a report dated as of January 1, 2008 prepared by Oilfield Production Consultants (OPC), independent petroleum consultants headquartered in London, England. This report is available for inspection at our principal executive offices during regular business hours. The reserve information in the table below has also been filed with the Oslo Stock Exchange.
(1)
PSC Entitlement Volumes attributed to CanArgo are calculated using the “economic interest method” applied to the terms of the production sharing contract. PSC Entitlement Volumes are those produced volumes which, through the production sharing contract, accrue to the benefit of the respective contractor parties after deduction of Georgian Oil’s share which includes all Georgian taxes, levies and duties. As a result of CanArgo’s interest in NOC, these volumes accrue to the benefit of CanArgo for the recovery of capital, repayment of operating costs and share of profit.
No independent reserves have been assessed for the West Rustavi Field.
Exploration and Development Wells
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2007 the number of exploration and development oil and gas wells in progress. Such information has been presented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in these wells.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the total number of dry exploration oil and gas wells drilled. The information has been represented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in this well.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the total number of dry development oil and gas wells drilled. The information has been presented on a gross basis representing our 100% interest in this well. Our interest in the Samgori PSC was terminated with effect from February 16, 2006.
* CSL 100% funded a development well drilled on the Samgori complex in 2004.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the total number of completed wells that flowed commercial quantities of oil and gas. The information has been represented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in these wells.
Proved reserves are those reserves estimated as recoverable under current technology and existing economic conditions from that portion of a reservoir which can be reasonably evaluated as economically productive on the basis of analysis of drilling, geological, geophysical and engineering data, including the reserves to be obtained by enhanced recovery processes demonstrated to be economically and technically successful in the subject reservoir. Proved reserves include proved developed reserves (producing and non-producing reserves) and proved undeveloped reserves.
Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those drilling units offsetting productive wells that are reasonably certain of production when drilled.
Uncertainties exist in the interpretation and extrapolation of existing data for the purposes of projecting the ultimate production of oil from underground reservoirs and the corresponding future net cash flows associated with that production. The estimating process requires educated decisions relating to the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The amount and timing of cost recovery is a function of oil and gas prices which can fluctuate significantly over time. The oil price used in the Ninotsminda Field report by OPC as of January 1, 2008 was $94.00 per barrel based on the Brent spot price per barrel at year end less $7.50 per barrel discount, in line with CanArgo’s most recent contractual arrangement. The net gas price used in the Ninotsminda Field report was $0.71 per Mcf in line with CanArgo’s contractual arrangements at the time of issuing the report. Having considered the geological and engineering data in the interpretation process, the Company believes with reasonable certainty that the stated proven reserves represent the estimated quantities of oil and gas to be recoverable in future years under existing operating and economic conditions.
Undeveloped Acreage
The following table summarizes the gross and net undeveloped acreage held under the Ninotsminda, Nazvrevi/Block XIII, Norio/North Kumisi, and Tbilisi production sharing contracts as of December 31, 2007.
The information regarding net acreage represents our interest based on our 100% interest in NOC and the subsidiaries holding the Nazvrevi/Block XIII contract, the Norio/North Kumisi and the Tbilisi Block XIG and XIH contracts.
The following table summarizes the gross and net undeveloped acreage held under the Ninotsminda, Nazvrevi/Block XIII, Norio/North Kumisi and Tbilisi production sharing contracts as of March 7, 2008. The information regarding net acreage represents our interest based on our 100% interest in NOC and the subsidiaries holding the Nazvrevi/Block XIII contract, the Norio/North Kumisi, and the Tbilisi Block XIG and XIH contracts.
Office Space
We lease office space in London, England; Guernsey, Channel Islands; and Tbilisi, Georgia. The leases have remaining terms varying from one to seven years and nine months and annual rental charges ranging from approximately $48,000 to $347,000.
Processing, Sales and Customers - Georgia
Georgian Oil built a considerable amount of infrastructure in and adjacent to the Samgori and Ninotsminda Fields prior to entering into the production sharing contracts for these Fields. NOC now uses that infrastructure, including initial processing equipment and CSL used it during the term of the Samgori PSC.
The mixed oil, gas and water fluid produced from the Ninotsminda Field wells flows into a two-phase separator located at the Ninotsminda Field, where gas associated with the oil is separated. The oil and water mixture is then transported approximately seven miles (11 Km) either in a pipeline or by truck to Georgian Oil’s central processing facility at Sartichala for further treatment.
At Sartichala, the water is separated from the oil. NOC then sells its share of oil in this state to buyers at Sartichala for local consumption or transfer it by pipeline approximately 12 miles (20 Km) to a railhead at Gatchiani or by road tanker to Vaziani rail loading terminal primarily for export sales. At the railheads, the oil is loaded into railcars for transport to the Black Sea port of Batumi, Georgia, where oil can be loaded onto tankers for international shipment. Buyers transport the oil at their own risk and cost from the delivery point at Sartichala.
In 2007 NOC sold all of its oil production to international buyers. In early 2006, NOC sold its oil production in accordance with the terms of a sales agreement concluded with Primrose Financial Group (“PFG”) in February 2005 which included the sale of oil to other customers nominated by PFG under this agreement. Later oil was sold to third party buyers under unrelated contracts. During the year, oil was purchased and paid for by a total of 2 customers each representing sales greater than 10% of oil revenue:
Management believes that the loss of any customer should not materially adversely affect our production
revenues because of the existence of a ready market for our production and an established export route for crude oil from the Caspian area via Georgia and its Black Sea ports. However, there can be no assurance that such substitute purchasers of our production will offer to purchase our production on the same terms and conditions as previously obtained.
In 2006, NOC sold its oil production to two customers of which the following customer represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue:
In 2005, NOC sold its oil production to four customers of which the following two customers represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue:
For NOC, sales during 2007 were based on the average of a number of quotations for Dated Brent Mediterranean as quoted in Platts Crude Oil Marketwire © with an appropriate average discount for transportation and other charges amounting to $7.85 per barrel. Sales in 2006 were also sold against a Brent quotation at an average discount of $8.44 per barrel. Sales in 2005 were also sold against a Brent quotation at an average discount of $7.50 per barrel.
The average sales price and the average production cost per unit (excluding depreciation, depletion and amortization) of oil and gas produced by NOC for each of the last three years was as follows:
* In 2007 and 2006, due to the uncollectibility of gas revenues, the Company decided to record gas revenues on a cash basis. Average sales prices above reflect contractual prices for gas delivered and revenues from these deliveries may not have been collected during the year.
Prior to withdrawing from the Samgori PSC in February 2006, CSL sold its share of production to 1 customer for the period to December 31, 2006:
In 2005, CSL sold its share of production to four customers of which the following one customer represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue for the period to December 31, 2005:
For the period in which CSL was selling production in 2006, sales to international markets were based on the average of a number of quotations for Dated Brent Mediterranean with an appropriate discount for transportation and other charges. The average discount to the price of Brent crude oil as quoted in Platts Crude Oil Marketwire
© for Brent Dated Mediterranean for all sales in 2006 was $8.44 per barrel. Sales in 2005 were also sold against a Brent quotation at an average discount of $6.16 per barrel. The higher discounts in 2006 are due to smaller quantities of oil being available for sale.
The average sales price and the average production cost per unit of oil and gas produced by CSL for the past three years were as follows:
* Our interest in the Samgori PSC was terminated with effect from February 16, 2006.
Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors including:
•
global and regional changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas;
•
actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;
•
weather conditions;
•
domestic and foreign governmental regulations;
•
the price and availability of alternative fuels;
•
political conditions in the Middle East and elsewhere; and
•
overall global and regional economic conditions.
Other Georgian Production Sharing Contracts
Nazvrevi and Block XIII Production Sharing Contract (“Nazvrevi PSC”)
In February 1998, our wholly owned subsidiary, CanArgo (Nazvrevi) Limited (“CNZ”) entered into a second production sharing contract with Georgian Oil and the State of Georgia. This contract covers the Nazvrevi (Block XID ) and Block XIII areas of East Georgia, an approximately 496,186 acre (2,008 Km 2 ) exploration area adjacent to the Ninotsminda and West Rustavi Fields and containing existing infrastructure. The agreement came into effect on February 20, 1998 and extends for twenty-five years with the final year of the contract being 2023. We are required to relinquish at least half of the area then covered by the Nazvrevi PSC, but not any portions being actively developed, at five-year intervals commencing in 2003. The first relinquishment was made in 2003, followed by a further relinquishment in February 2008 of the southern part of the area, reducing the area to approximately 194,233 acres (787 Km 2).
Under the Nazvrevi PSC, CNZ pays all operating and capital costs. We first recover our cumulative operating costs from production. After deducting production attributable to operating costs, 50% of the remaining production (cost recovery petroleum), considered on an annual basis, is applied to reimburse us for our cumulative capital costs. While cumulative capital costs remain unrecovered, the other 50% of remaining production (profit petroleum) is allocated on a 50/50 basis between Georgian Oil and CNZ. After all cumulative capital costs have been recovered by us, remaining production after deduction of operating costs is allocated on a 70/30 basis between Georgian Oil and CNZ, respectively. Thus, while we are responsible for all of the costs associated with the Nazvrevi PSC we are only entitled to receive 30% of production after cost recovery. The allocation of a share of production to Georgian Oil, however, relieves us of all obligations we would otherwise have to pay the State of Georgia for taxes and similar levies related to activities covered by the production sharing contract. Both Georgian Oil and CNZ will take their respective shares of oil production under the Nazvrevi PSC in kind but the intent is to jointly market any available gas production.
The first phase of the preliminary work program under the Nazvrevi PSC involved primarily a seismic survey of a portion of the exploration area and the processing and interpretation of the data collected. The seismic survey has been completed, and the results of those studies have been interpreted and possible oil and gas prospects and exploration drilling locations are being identified. The cost of the seismic program was approximately $1.5 million, and met the minimum obligatory work commitment under the contract. The Department for Protection of Mineral Resources and Mining has confirmed that CNZ have met the requirements of the work program defined in the production sharing contract. The Manavi oil discovery may extend into the Nazvrevi PSC area and the West Rustavi 16 (“WR16”) gas discovery located within the Ninotsminda PSC area may extend into Block XIII (the “Kumisi” prospect), and there are several identified prospects, however as the Nazvrevi and Block XIII area is an exploration area and no discoveries have been made to date, it is not possible to estimate the expenditures needed to discover and, if discovered, produce commercial quantities of oil and gas.
One of the ten wells drilled in the West Rustavi Field by Georgian Oil was deepened to test the deeper Cretaceous and Paleocene horizons. This well, named WR16, was tested and produced at rate of over 1 MMcf (35 MCM) of gas and 3,500 barrels of water per day, thus demonstrating the ability of the Cretaceous to produce at good rates. The WR16 well is interpreted to have tested the down dip extent of a potential Cretaceous gas deposit named Kumisi. We acquired and interpreted additional seismic data over this structure and identified a potentially large prospect extending across the Nazvrevi PSC area with the crestal part of the structure located in the Block XIG which was subsequently secured by CanArgo as part of the Tbilisi PSC area. The structure is potentially very large with the principal risk being closure on the structure to the north and west which is dependent on a downthrown fault seal.
Following an undertaking by the government to purchase any gas produced from the Kumisi prospect on agreed commercial terms, we drilled a well to appraise this prospect in 2007 up-dip of the WR16 well. The Kumisi #1 well is located within the Nazvrevi PSC area and is approximately 7.5 miles (12 Km) southeast of Tbilisi. It is close to the domestic gas transportation grid and the route of the new South Caucasus gas trunkline from Azerbaijan to Turkey. The well commenced drilling in February 2007 and reached a total depth of 11,841 feet (3,609 metres) in June in the Cretaceous.
An extensive testing program was conducted over the Cretaceous section where six separate intervals totalling 482 feet (147 metres) were perforated and tested. Despite elevated gas readings being recorded during drilling, these tests resulted in no discernable flow from the formation and without any hydrocarbons being detected. It is, therefore, reasonable to assume that the Cretaceous reservoir at this location is tight unlike the rocks encountered in other wells in the area. This conclusion was confirmed by a low pressure hydro squeeze which was performed over two separate zones with the data obtained suggesting that these rocks are tight and lack permeability.
Further tests were carried out of potential reservoir units in the overlying Middle and Lower Eocene sequences. Three separate tests were conducted with a total of 79 feet (24 metres) of sandstones being perforated and flow tested. These tests produced water with gas flow to surface in flareable quantities, but non commercial volumes. Each interval was flow tested for a number of days over which there was no increase in the amount of gas produced and the testing was subsequently terminated.
On October 18, 2007 we announced that the Kumisi #1 was being plugged and abandoned. The well results, particularly for the Cretaceous interval, will be reviewed and incorporated into our technical evaluation of the area in order to fully understand the remaining potential of the Kumisi area. As part of this analysis consideration will be given to acid fracture stimulation techniques as a means by which to enhance permeability within the prospect. As no water has been recovered from the well, management believes that potential for a large gas prospect may still exist up-dip of the WR16 well given better reservoir quality.
Norio (Block XIC) and North Kumisi Production Sharing Agreement (“Norio PSA”)
In December 2000, CanArgo, through its then 50% owned subsidiary CanArgo Norio Limited (“CNL”), entered into a third production sharing contract with the State of Georgia represented by Georgian Oil and the State Agency for Regulation of Oil and Gas Resources in Georgia. The Norio PSA covers the Norio and North
Kumisi blocks of East Georgia, an exploration area of approximately 265,122 acres (1,061 Km 2 ), following the first contractual relinquishment in April 2006, adjacent to the Ninotsminda and Samgori Fields. The Norio PSA came into effect on April 9, 2001 and extends for a period of twenty-five years with the final year of the contract being 2026. We are required to relinquish at least 50% of the remaining contract area, but not any portions being actively developed at five-year intervals commencing in 2011 up to 2026. There are two existing oil fields on the Norio PSA area, Norio and Satskhenisi which are old, small, relatively shallow fields and which produce small quantities of oil. CNL has determined production from these fields to be uneconomic, and the fields are currently being operated by Georgian Oil whereby Georgian Oil takes all production to compensate it for its costs under what is effectively a social program. If CNL wishes, it could take over field operations and production from these fields forthwith.
The commercial terms of the Norio PSA are similar to those of the Nazvrevi PSC with the exception that after all cumulative capital costs have been recovered by CNL, remaining production after deduction of operating costs is allocated on a 60/40 basis between Georgian Oil and CNL, respectively. Thus, while CNL is responsible for all of the costs associated with development of the Norio PSA, it is only entitled to receive 40% of production after cost recovery. On September 30, 2004 we announced that we had increased our interest in CNL, by buying out the remaining minority shareholders who held a 25% interest in that company. CNL is now a wholly owned subsidiary of CanArgo.
The first phase of the preliminary work program under the Norio PSA involved primarily a seismic survey of a portion of the exploration area and the processing and interpretation of the data collected. The seismic survey has been completed, and the results of those studies have and will continue to be interpreted. In addition to the main target, which is the Middle Eocene, the potential of the license area to produce from the Miocene, Sarmatian, Upper Eocene and Cretaceous is being assessed. The cost of the seismic program was approximately $1.5 million.
The second phase of the preliminary work program under the Norio PSA commenced in January 2002 when the first exploration well named MK72 was spudded on the Norio prospect using the CanArgo Ural Mash rig. Norio is a large prospect identified at Middle Eocene level and is analogous in size to the nearby Samgori and Ninotsminda Field complex immediately to the south and east of the block. It has been reported that the Samgori Oil Field alone has produced approximately 180 million barrels of oil to date.
Completion of the MK72 well was delayed as a result of technical problems encountered whilst drilling, and the need to farm out a portion of the equity in the block in order to partly fund the drilling. In September 2003, CNL signed a farm-in agreement relating to the Norio PSA with a wholly owned subsidiary of Georgian Oil, the Georgian State Oil Company. This farm-in agreement obligated Georgian Oil to pay up to $2.0 million to deepen, to a planned depth of 16,733 feet (5,100 metres), the MK-72 well in return for a 15% interest in the contractor share of the Norio PSA. Georgian Oil also had an option, exercisable for a limited period after completion of the well, to increase its interest to 50% of the contractor share of the Norio PSA on payment to CNL of $6.5 million. Due to Georgian Oil’s inability to continue to fund the drilling of the well, operations were subsequently suspended and only resumed after May 2005 when we repaid to Georgian Oil the investment it had made in the MK72 well to terminate the farm-in agreement and option and secure a 100% working interest in the Norio PSA.
In August 2005 the Saipem drilling rig and Baker oil-based mud system was mobilized to the MK72 exploration well as our Ural Mash rig had difficulty drilling through a highly over-pressured section of swelling clays above the prognosed target zone. On December 29, 2005 we announced that the MK72 well reached a depth of 16,076 feet (4,900 metres) in the Middle Eocene reservoir having encountered very good oil and gas shows. Before the well could be drilled to the planned depth and tested, the bottom hole assembly (BHA) became stuck due to hole collapse. Subsequent attempts to retrieve the BHA were not successful and we decided to abandon the lower target due to a limited chance of sidetracking the well at this depth in a small diameter hole and to focus our attention on the shallower oil discovery in the overlying Oligocene sands which were the secondary target for the well. From the data obtained from the Middle Eocene (the primary target for the well) we believe that an oil discovery has been made at this level, and that the reservoir has exhibited both permeability (evidenced by drilling mud losses whilst drilling) and the presence of movable light oil. As such, even though the Middle Eocene has not been fully evaluated, the MK72 well has encountered the Middle Eocene
reservoir on prognosis, and with hydrocarbons thus achieving many of the objectives of this wildcat exploration well.
A comprehensive testing program on the oil bearing Oligocene sandstones encountered in the Norio MK72 well commenced in mid-March 2006 when a total of 322 feet (98 metres) of net sands were perforated over the interval 12,096 feet (3,687 metres) to 13,622 feet (4,152 metres). These sands had good oil shows whilst drilling, with oil to surface and with hydrocarbons being interpreted on the electric logs which also indicated a substantial thickness of net pay sands. Following an extensive testing program, the well sustained flow on a small choke size with low average gross fluid rates of approximately 13 barrels per day consisting of light 48.6ºAPI oil, gas and water.
A number of surge clean up flows, a re-perforation of selected intervals, and a “low” pressure hydrofrac using our own pumping unit have been attempted but these have not improved reservoir deliverability. It is believed that the current flow is limited to a thinner, less permeable, interval whilst the better quality reservoir remains isolated due to potential reservoir damage caused by the invasive fluid damage of the drilling mud. The lower zones in the well, which would have been in communication with the Oligocene interval through the well-bore, were drilled with a 1.9 to 2.2 Specific Gravity (SG) mud due to anticipated reservoir pressures while the results from the testing program indicate that the mid interval reservoir pressure for the Oligocene whilst still over pressured, is lower at 1.7 SG equivalent. As a result of possible mud damage, the current perforations may have not penetrated deep enough beyond the damaged zone to allow proper communication between the more permeable formations and the well-bore.
We considered mobilising a more powerful fraccing unit and equipment to Georgia in order to pump a propant and fluid into the well at high pressure and volume, but the potential for this technology is limited due to a lack of a cement bond behind the casing and the large interval which has been perforated. The well has been left on test production for the past several months but there has been no discernable increase in gross fluid production rate. As we would appear to have exhausted all the low cost options available to us at this time to bypass any damage that may exist in the near-well-bore area and establish better communication between the well-bore and the reservoir, we believe that the only effective option remaining is to sidetrack the well or to drill a new well. The latter, of course, would enable us to attempt to test both the Oligocene and Middle Eocene intervals both of which are considered to have significantly reduced geological risk.
The Norio PSA covers a large exploration area with what management believe to be good oil and gas potential with the presence of reservoir rocks and moveable hydrocarbons having been confirmed by drilling. We have mapped several significant prospects at different stratigraphic levels within the area several of which are on trend with the MK72 well. Both the Oligocene and Middle Eocene prospects as mapped are potentially large and warrant appraising. It is planned, subject to financing being available from internal resources or through a farm out arrangement, that an appraisal well will be drilled to fully evaluate these attractive discoveries, with the well being designed to enter the Middle Eocene reservoir with a larger hole size. In 2007, several companies undertook a technical review of the Norio area and a number of these have expressed an interest in further evaluating a farm-in to this acreage.
As the area in which we are currently drilling is an exploration area with no commercial discoveries (excluding the small shallow fields currently operated by Georgian Oil), it is not possible to estimate the expenditures needed to discover and, if discovered, produce commercial quantities of oil and gas.
Block XIG and XIH Production Sharing Contract (“Tbilisi PSC”)
In November 2002, our subsidiary, CanArgo Norio Limited (“CNL”), won the tender for the oil and gas exploration and production rights to the Tbilisi PSC, an area of approximately 119,845 acres (485 Km 2) in eastern Georgia adjacent to the Norio, Block XIII and West Rustavi areas. In July 2003, it was announced that CNL, had signed a Production Sharing Contract covering these areas. The Tbilisi PSC came into effect on September 29, 2003 and will continue for an initial period of ten years at which time it will terminate unless we have made a commercial discovery in which case the PSC will continue in full force and effect until September 29, 2028. The commercial terms of the Tbilisi PSC are similar to those of the Norio PSA with the exception that Georgian Oil does not have an option to acquire an interest in the contractor party’s share following a commercial discovery.
Under the Tbilisi PSC we have a commitment to evaluate existing seismic and geological data which we have completed and to acquire additional seismic data within three years of the effective date of the contract which is September 29, 2003. This work was delayed until after the completion of the Kumisi #1 well which has an impact on the future prospectivity of this acreage. We are in negotiation with the State Agency for Oil & Gas Regulation in Georgia and Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation about an appropriate exploration program for this PSC in light of the Kumisi #1 results. The total commitment over the remaining period is $350,000.
Following our acquisition of the minority shareholding in CNL in September 2004, our interest in the Tbilisi PSC increased from 75% to 100%.
Geophysical evaluation of the Kumisi prospect up-dip of the WR16 well in the Nazvrevi PSC area showed the structure to extend across the Nazvrevi PSC area with the crestal part of the structure located in the Block XIG in the Tbilisi PSC. The Kumisi structure has been partly evaluated by the Kumisi #1 well drilled in 2007 and abandoned in October 2007 following an extensive well testing program. The well results, particularly for the Cretaceous interval, will be reviewed and incorporated into our technical evaluation of the area in order to fully understand the remaining potential of the Kumisi structure both within the Nazvrevi PSC and Tbilisi PSC. As no water has been recovered from the well, the potential for a large gas prospect still exists up-dip of the WR16 well given better reservoir quality.
Refining and Other Activities
We also have engaged in other oil and gas activities in Georgia and elsewhere. A discussion of discontinued operations is incorporated herein by reference from note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.
Drilling Rigs and Associated Equipment
We own several items of drilling equipment, and other related machinery primarily for use in our Georgian operations. These include two drilling rigs, pumping equipment and ancillary machinery. This equipment is currently being used by our operator company to drill exploration wells and provide support to our development work on the Ninotsminda Field and on the Manavi and Norio discoveries.
EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 2007, we had 150 full time employees. Of our full time employees, the entity acting as operator of the Ninotsminda Field for NOC has 124 full time employees, and substantially all of that company’s activities relate to the production and development of the Ninotsminda Field. We have not experienced any strikes, work stoppages or other labour disputes and management believes the Company’s relations with its employees are satisfactory.
ITEM 3.