ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Production History
Ninotsminda
The Ninotsminda Field was discovered and initial development began in 1979. Current average gross field
production for the month of January, 2007 was approximately 485 bopd. Gross and net production from the Ninotsminda Field for the past three years was as follows:
(1)
PSC Entitlement Volumes attributed to CanArgo are calculated using the “economic interest method” applied to the terms of the production sharing contract. PSC Entitlement Volumes are those produced volumes which, through the production sharing contract, accrue to the benefit of the contractor party after deduction of Georgian Oil’s share which includes all Georgian taxes, levies and duties. Ninotsminda Oil Company Limited (“NOC”) owns 100% of the contractor’s interest in the PSC. As a result of CanArgo’s interest in NOC, these volumes accrue to the benefit of CanArgo for the recovery of capital, repayment of operating costs and share of profit.
Samgori
Between April 2004 and February 16, 2006 we had a 50% interest in the Samgori (Block XI B) Production Sharing Contract (“Samgori PSC”) in Georgia, we terminated our interest with effect from February 16, 2006. The gross and net production for the period in which we had an interest in the Samgori PSC including the period January 1, 2006 to February 16, 2006 was as follows:
(2)
PSC Entitlement Volumes attributed to CanArgo are calculated using the “economic interest method” applied to the terms of the production sharing contract. PSC Entitlement Volumes are those produced volumes which, through the production sharing contract, accrue to the benefit of the contractor parties after deduction of Georgian Oil’s share which includes all Georgian taxes, levies and duties. CanArgo Samgori Limited (“CSL”) owned 50% of the contractor’s interest in the PSC. As a result of CanArgo’s interest in CSL, these volumes accrued to the benefit of CanArgo for the recovery of capital, repayment of operating costs and share of profit.
We ceased to have an interest in this project on February 16, 2006.
Productive Wells and Acreage
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 with respect to NOC the number of productive oil and gas wells and the total developed acreage for the Ninotsminda Field. Such information has been presented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in NOC.
On December 31, 2006, there were no other productive wells or developed acreage within the Ninotsminda PSC area except for one gross well on the West Rustavi Field which was shut-in at that date.
The only other productive wells or developed acreage on any of our other Georgian properties were within the Samgori PSC area on the Samgori Field. This information below as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is presented on a net basis representing our 100% interest in CSL which in turn had a 50% interest in the Samgori PSC. Our interest in the Samgori PSC was terminated with effect from February 16, 2006.
Reserves
Ninotsminda Field, Georgia
The following table summarizes net hydrocarbon reserves for the Ninotsminda Field in Georgia. This information is derived from a report dated as of January 1, 2007 prepared by Oilfield Production Consultants (OPC), independent petroleum consultants headquartered in London, England. This report is available for inspection at our principal executive offices during regular business hours. The reserve information in the table below has also been filed with the Oslo Stock Exchange.
(1)
PSC Entitlement Volumes attributed to CanArgo are calculated using the “economic interest method” applied to the terms of the production sharing contract. PSC Entitlement Volumes are those produced volumes which, through the production sharing contract, accrue to the benefit of the respective contractor parties after deduction of Georgian Oil’s share which includes all Georgian taxes, levies and duties. As a result of CanArgo’s interest in NOC, these volumes
accrue to the benefit of CanArgo for the recovery of capital, repayment of operating costs and share of profit.
No independent reserves have been assessed for the West Rustavi Field.
Exploration and Development Wells
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2006 the number of exploration and development oil and gas wells in progress. Such information has been presented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in these wells.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the total number of dry exploration oil and gas wells drilled. The information has been represented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in this well.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the total number of dry development oil and gas wells drilled. The information has been presented on a gross basis representing our 100% interest in this well. Our interest in the Samgori PSC was terminated with effect from February 16, 2006.
The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the total number of completed wells that flowed commercial quantities of oil and gas. The information has been represented on a gross basis, representing our 100% interest in these wells.
Kyzyloi and Akkulka Gas Fields in Kazakhstan
The following table summarizes net hydrocarbon reserves for the Kyzyloi and Akkulka Gas Fields in Kazakhstan. This information is also derived from a report dated as of January 1, 2007 prepared by Oilfield Production Consultants (OPC), independent petroleum consultants headquartered in London, England. This report is available for inspection at our principal executive offices during regular business hours. The reserve information in the table below has also been filed with the Oslo Stock Exchange.
(1)
TPL through its 100% owned subsidiary Tethys Kazakhstan Limited (“TKL”) currently holds 70% ownership rights in BN Munai LLP, a Kazakh registered limited liability partnership that has the 100% rights to the Kyzyloi field. Under a loan agreement with BN Munai LLP, TKL will take 100% of the net cash flow of the Kyzyloi development until its loan is repaid. This loan is currently in excess of net cash flows generated from the production of gross proven reserves.
Proved reserves are those reserves estimated as recoverable under current technology and existing economic conditions from that portion of a reservoir which can be reasonably evaluated as economically productive on the basis of analysis of drilling, geological, geophysical and engineering data, including the reserves to be obtained by enhanced recovery processes demonstrated to be economically and technically successful in the subject reservoir. Proved reserves include proved developed reserves (producing and non-producing reserves) and proved undeveloped reserves.
Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those drilling units offsetting productive wells that are reasonably certain of production when drilled.
Uncertainties exist in the interpretation and extrapolation of existing data for the purposes of projecting the ultimate production of oil from underground reservoirs and the corresponding future net cash flows associated with that production. The estimating process requires educated decisions relating to the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The amount and timing of cost recovery is a function of oil and gas prices which can fluctuate significantly over time. The oil price used in the Ninotsminda Field report by OPC as of January 1, 2007 was $51.50 per barrel based on the Brent spot price per barrel at year end less $8.50 per barrel discount, in line with CanArgo’s most recent contractual arrangement. The net gas price used in the Ninotsminda Field report ranged from $0.71 to $1.71 per Mcf in line with CanArgo’s most recent contractual arrangements and also with gas prices that the company believes it can reasonably achieve in the local market. The gas price used in the Kyzyloi and Akkulka Gas Fields report by OPC as of January 1, 2007 ranged from $0.79 per Mcf to $1.02 per Mcf in line with the Gas Sales Contract for the Kyzyloi Field negotiated with a gas buyer in Kazakhstan. Having considered the geological and engineering data in the interpretation process, the Company believes with reasonable certainty that the stated proven reserves represent the estimated quantities of oil and gas to be recoverable in future years under existing operating and economic conditions.
Undeveloped Acreage
The following table summarizes the gross and net undeveloped acreage held under the Ninotsminda, Nazvrevi/Block XIII, Norio/North Kumisi, and Tbilisi production sharing contracts as of December 31, 2006. The information regarding net acreage represents our interest based on our 100% interest in NOC and the subsidiaries holding the Nazvrevi/Block XIII contract, the Norio/North Kumisi and the Tbilisi Block XIG and XIH contracts.
The following table summarizes the gross and net undeveloped acreage held under the Ninotsminda, Nazvrevi/Block XIII, Norio/North Kumisi and Tbilisi production sharing contracts as of March 13, 2007. The information regarding net acreage represents our interest based on our 100% interest in NOC and the subsidiaries holding the Nazvrevi/Block XIII contract, the Norio/North Kumisi, and the Tbilisi Block XIG and XIH contracts.
The following table summarizes the gross and net undeveloped acreage held under the Kazakhstan licenses as of December 31, 2006. The information regarding net acreage represents our interest based on our 70% interest in BN Munai LLP and the subsidiaries holding the licenses through our wholly owned subsidiary TPL.
The following table summarizes the gross and net undeveloped acreage held under the Kazakhstan licenses as of December 31, 2006. The information regarding net acreage represents our interest based on our 70% interest in BN Munai LLP and the subsidiaries holding the licenses through our wholly owned subsidiary TPL.
* combined Akkulka & Greater Akkulka Areas
Although the Kyzyloi is potentially a productive field, production has not yet commenced and has been classified as Undeveloped Acreage. A 33 mile (53 Km) pipeline is planned to tie the field to the main Bukhara-Urals gas trunkline. A long-term gas offtake agreement has already been concluded with a planned initial plateau rate of 17.7 MMcf (500,000 MCM) per day.
Office Space
We lease office space in London, England; Guernsey, Channel Islands; Tbilisi, Georgia; and Almaty, Aktobe, Astana and Bozoi in Kazakhstan. The leases have remaining terms varying from six months to eight years and nine months and annual rental charges ranging from approximately $5,000 to $335,000.
Processing, Sales and Customers - Georgia
Georgian Oil built a considerable amount of infrastructure in and adjacent to the Samgori and Ninotsminda
Fields prior to entering into the production sharing contracts for these Fields. NOC now uses that infrastructure, including initial processing equipment and CSL used it during the term of the Samgori PSC.
The mixed oil, gas and water fluid produced from the Ninotsminda Field wells flows into a two-phase separator located at the Ninotsminda Field, where gas associated with the oil is separated. The oil and water mixture is then transported approximately seven miles (11 Km) either in a pipeline or by truck to Georgian Oil’s central processing facility at Sartichala for further treatment.
At Sartichala, the water is separated from the oil. NOC then sells its share of oil in this state to buyers at Sartichala for local consumption or transfer it by pipeline approximately 12 miles (20 Km) to a railhead at Gatchiani or by road tanker to Vaziani rail loading terminal primarily for export sales. At the railheads, the oil is loaded into railcars for transport to the Black Sea port of Batumi, Georgia, where oil can be loaded onto tankers for international shipment. Buyers transport the oil at their own risk and cost from the delivery point at Sartichala.
In 2007 NOC sold all of its oil production to international buyers. In early 2006, NOC sold its oil production in accordance with the terms of a sales agreement concluded with Primrose Financial Group (“PFG”) in February 2005 which included the sale of oil to other customers nominated by PFG under this agreement. Later oil was sold to third party buyers under unrelated contracts. During the year, oil was purchased and paid for by a total of 2 customers. Of these customers, the following customer represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue:
Management believes that the loss of any customer should not materially adversely affect our production revenues because of the existence of a ready market for our production and an established export route for crude oil from the Caspian area via Georgia and its Black Sea ports. However, there can be no assurance that such substitute purchasers of our production will offer to purchase our production on the same terms and conditions as previously obtained.
In 2005, NOC sold its oil production to four customers of which the following two customers represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue:
In 2004, NOC sold its oil production to 14 customers of which the following four customers represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue:
For NOC, sales during 2006 were based on the average of a number of quotations for Dated Brent Mediterranean as quoted in Platts Crude Oil Marketwire © with an appropriate average discount for transportation and other charges amounting to $8.44 per barrel. Sales in 2005 were also sold against a Brent quotation at an average discount of $7.50 per barrel. Of the sales in 2004, 43.2 % was sold against a Brent quotation at an average discount of $7.50 per barrel and 56.8 % against an Urals quotation at an average discount of $7.00 per barrel.
The average sales price and the average production cost per unit (excluding depreciation, depletion and amortization) of oil and gas produced by NOC for each of the last three years was as follows:
*
In 2006, due to the uncollectibility of gas revenues, the Company decided to record gas revenues on a cash basis. Average sales prices above reflect contractual prices for gas delivered and revenues from these deliveries may not have been collected during the year.
Prior to withdrawing from the Samgori PSC in February 2006, CSL sold its share of production to 1 customer for the period to December 31, 2006:
In 2005, CSL sold its share of production to four customers of which the following one customer represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue for the period to December 31, 2005:
Since April 2004, when CSL acquired an interest in the Samgori PSC, to December 31, 2004 the Company sold its share of production to seven customers of which the following four customers represented sales greater than 10% of oil revenue for the period:
For the period in which CSL was selling production in 2006, sales to international markets were based on the average of a number of quotations for Dated Brent Mediterranean with an appropriate discount for transportation and other charges. The average discount to the price of Brent crude oil as quoted in Platts Crude Oil Marketwire © for Brent Dated Mediterranean for all sales in 2006 was $8.44 per barrel. Sales in 2005 were also sold against a Brent quotation at an average discount of $6.16 per barrel. The higher discounts during 2005 and 2006 are due to generally smaller quantities of oil being available for sale.
The average sales price and the average production cost per unit of oil and gas produced by CSL for the past three years were as follows:
Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors including:
•
global and regional changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas;
•
actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;
•
weather conditions;
•
domestic and foreign governmental regulations;
•
the price and availability of alternative fuels;
•
political conditions in the Middle East and elsewhere; and
•
overall global and regional economic conditions.
Other Georgian Production Sharing Contracts
Nazvrevi and Block XIII Production Sharing Contract (“Nazvrevi PSC”)
In February 1998, our wholly owned subsidiary, CanArgo (Nazvrevi) Limited (“CNZ”) entered into a second production sharing contract with Georgian Oil and the State of Georgia. This contract covers the Nazvrevi (Block XID ) and Block XIII areas of East Georgia, an approximately 496,186 acre (2,008 Km 2 ) exploration area adjacent to the Ninotsminda and West Rustavi Fields and containing existing infrastructure. The agreement came into effect on February 20, 1998 and extends for twenty-five years with the final year of the contract being 2023. We are required to relinquish at least half of the area then covered by the Nazvrevi PSC, but not any portions being actively developed, at five-year intervals commencing in 2003. The first relinquishment was made in 2003, of the southern part of the area, reducing the area to approximately 388,447 acres (1,572 Km 2).
Under the Nazvrevi PSC, CNZ pays all operating and capital costs. We first recover our cumulative operating costs from production. After deducting production attributable to operating costs, 50% of the remaining production (cost recovery petroleum), considered on an annual basis, is applied to reimburse us for our cumulative capital costs. While cumulative capital costs remain unrecovered, the other 50% of remaining production (profit petroleum) is allocated on a 50/50 basis between Georgian Oil and CNZ. After all cumulative capital costs have been recovered by us, remaining production after deduction of operating costs is allocated on a 70/30 basis between Georgian Oil and CNZ, respectively. Thus, while we are responsible for all of the costs associated with the Nazvrevi PSC we are only entitled to receive 30% of production after cost recovery. The allocation of a share of production to Georgian Oil, however, relieves us of all obligations we would otherwise have to pay the State of Georgia for taxes and similar levies related to activities covered by the production sharing contract. Both Georgian Oil and CNZ will take their respective shares of oil production under the Nazvrevi PSC in kind but the intent is to jointly market any available gas production.
The first phase of the preliminary work program under the Nazvrevi PSC involved primarily a seismic survey of a portion of the exploration area and the processing and interpretation of the data collected. The seismic survey has been completed, and the results of those studies have been interpreted and possible oil and gas prospects and exploration drilling locations are being identified. The cost of the seismic program was approximately $1.5 million, and met the minimum obligatory work commitment under the contract. The Department for Protection of Mineral Resources and Mining has confirmed that CNZ have met the requirements of the work program defined in the production sharing contract. The Manavi oil discovery may extend into the Nazvrevi PSC area and the West Rustavi 16 gas discovery located within the Ninotsminda PSC area may extend into Block XIII (the “Kumisi” prospect), and there are several identified prospects, however as the Nazvrevi and Block XIII area is an exploration area and no discoveries have been made to date, it is not possible to estimate the expenditures needed to discover and, if discovered, produce commercial quantities of oil and gas.
The number 16 well drilled in Soviet times on the West Rustavi Field was completed in the Cretaceous/Paleocene sequence and was tested and produced at over 1 MMcf (30 MCM) of gas and 3,500 barrels of water per day, and is interpreted to have tested the down dip extent of a Cretaceous gas deposit named Kumisi. Seismic interpretation and mapping has identified the presence of a potentially large prospect, with the crestal part being in the Nazvrevi / Block XIII PSC area. The prospect is potentially of very significant size with the principal risk being closure on the structure. A drilling location for the Kumisi #1 well has been identified within the Nazvrevi PSC. This prospect is located approximately 7.5 miles (12 Km) southeast of Tbilisi and is close to the domestic gas transportation grid (nearest pipeline approximately 2.2 miles (3.5 Km) (500mm, 10-12 Atm pressure) and a pipeline at 10 miles (16 Km) (700mm, 9-10 Atm), the route of the new South Caucasus gas trunkline from Azerbaijan to Turkey, and is approximately 12.5 miles (20 Km) west of the Gardabani thermal power plant and Rustavi industrial complex.
On March 3, 2006 we announced that CNZ had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the Georgian Government which includes the terms of a take-or-pay natural gas supply contract relating to gas sales from the Kumisi gas prospect within the Nazvrevi / Block XIII PSC area. The gas supply contract will be with the Georgian State, secured against appropriate bank guarantees, in which CNZ will supply gas from Kumisi based on a pricing formula under which gas is initially supplied at a contract price of $1.56 per Mcf ($55 per MCM), increasing to $2.28 per Mcf ($80 per MCM) by the tenth contract year, after which escalation will be based on European Union heavy fuel oil price changes. The contract will be for the entire field life. However, after the tenth year, CNZ has the option of selling to third parties if the price obtained is 10% above the contract price at that time.
This MOU became effective in February 2007 on receipt of regulatory approval and a drilling permit and CNZ commenced drilling the Kumisi #1 well on February 7, 2006. The well which is being drilled with CanArgo Rig #2 is expected to reach total depth of 12,140 feet (3,700 meters) in the Cretaceous by late June. Surface casing has been set at a depth of 1,004 feet (306 meters) and the well is currently drilling ahead at approximately 4,921 feet (1,500 meters) in the Middle Eocene.
Norio (Block XIC) and North Kumisi Production Sharing Agreement (“Norio PSA”)
In December 2000, CanArgo, through its then 50% owned subsidiary CanArgo Norio Limited (“CNL”), entered into a third production sharing contract with the State of Georgia represented by Georgian Oil and the State Agency for Regulation of Oil and Gas Resources in Georgia. The Norio PSA covers the Norio and North Kumisi blocks of East Georgia, an exploration area of approximately 265,122 acres (1,061 Km 2 ), following the first contractual relinquishment in April 2006, adjacent to the Ninotsminda and Samgori Fields. The Norio PSA came into effect on April 9, 2001 and extends for a period of twenty-five years with the final year of the contract being 2026. We are required to relinquish at least 50% of the remaining contract area, but not any portions being actively developed at five-year intervals commencing in 2011 up to 2026. There are two existing oil fields on the Norio PSA area, Norio and Satskhenisi which are old, small, relatively shallow fields and which produce small quantities of oil. CNL has determined production from these fields to be uneconomic, and the fields are currently being operated by Georgian Oil whereby Georgian Oil takes all production to compensate it for its costs under what is effectively a social program. If CNL wishes, it could take over field operations and production from these fields forthwith.
The commercial terms of the Norio PSA are similar to those of the Nazvrevi PSC with the exception that after all cumulative capital costs have been recovered by CNL, remaining production after deduction of operating costs is allocated on a 60/40 basis between Georgian Oil and CNL, respectively. Thus, while CNL is responsible for all of the costs associated with development of the Norio PSA, it is only entitled to receive 40% of production after cost recovery. On September 30, 2004 we announced that we had increased our interest in CNL, by buying out the remaining minority shareholders who held a 25% interest in that company. CNL is now a wholly owned subsidiary of CanArgo.
The first phase of the preliminary work program under the Norio PSA involved primarily a seismic survey of a portion of the exploration area and the processing and interpretation of the data collected. The seismic survey has been completed, and the results of those studies have and will continue to be interpreted. In addition to the main target, which is the Middle Eocene, the potential of the license area to produce from the Miocene, Sarmatian, Upper Eocene and Cretaceous is being assessed. The cost of the seismic program was approximately $1.5 million.
The second phase of the preliminary work program under the Norio PSA commenced in January 2002 when the first exploration well named MK72 was spudded on the Norio prospect using the CanArgo Ural Mash rig. Norio is a large prospect identified at Middle Eocene level and is analogous in size to the nearby Samgori and Ninotsminda Field complex immediately to the south and east of the block. It has been reported that the Samgori Oil Field alone has produced approximately 180 million barrels of oil to date.
Completion of the MK72 well was delayed as a result of technical problems encountered whilst drilling, and the need to farm out a portion of the equity in the block in order to partly fund the drilling. In September 2003, CNL signed a farm-in agreement relating to the Norio PSA with a wholly owned subsidiary of Georgian Oil, the Georgian State Oil Company. This farm-in agreement obligated Georgian Oil to pay up to $2.0 million to deepen, to a planned depth of 16,733 feet (5,100 meters) the MK-72 well in return for a 15% interest in the contractor share of the Norio PSA. Georgian Oil also had an option, exercisable for a limited period after completion of the well, to increase its interest to 50% of the contractor share of the Norio PSA on payment to CNL of $6.5 million. Due to Georgian Oil’s inability to continue to fund the drilling of the well, operations were subsequently suspended and only resumed after May 2005 when we repaid to Georgian Oil the investment it had made in the MK72 well to terminate the farm-in agreement and option and secure a 100% working interest in the Norio PSA.
In August 2005 the Saipem drilling rig and Baker oil-based mud system was mobilized to the MK72 exploration well as our Ural Mash rig had difficulty drilling through a highly over-pressured section of swelling clays above the prognosed target zone. On December 29, 2005 we announced that the MK72 well reached a depth of 16,076 feet (4,900 meters) in the Middle Eocene reservoir having encountered very good oil and gas shows. Before the well could be drilled to the planned depth and tested, the bottom hole assembly (BHA) became stuck due to hole collapse. Subsequent attempts to retrieve the BHA were not successful and we decided to abandon the lower target due to a limited chance of sidetracking the well at this depth in a small diameter hole and to focus our attention on the shallower oil discovery in the overlying Oligocene sands which were the secondary target for the well. From the data obtained from the Middle Eocene (the primary target for the well) we believe that an oil discovery has been made at this level, and that the reservoir has exhibited both permeability (evidenced by drilling mud losses whilst drilling) and the presence of movable light oil. As such, even though the Middle Eocene has not been fully evaluated, the MK72 well has encountered the Middle Eocene reservoir on prognosis, and with hydrocarbons thus achieving many of the objectives of this wildcat exploration well.
A comprehensive testing program on the oil bearing Oligocene sandstones encountered in the Norio MK72 well commenced in mid-March 2006 when a total of 322 feet (98 meters) of net sands were perforated over the interval 12,096 feet (3,687 meters) to 13,622 feet (4,152 meters). These sands had good oil shows whilst drilling, with oil to surface and with hydrocarbons being interpreted on the electric logs which also indicated a substantial thickness of net pay sands. Following an extensive testing program, the well sustained flow on a small choke size with low average gross fluid rates of approximately 13 barrels per day consisting of light 48.6ºAPI oil, gas and water.
A number of surge clean up flows, a re-perforation of selected intervals, and a “low” pressure hydrofrac using our own pumping unit have been attempted but these have not improved reservoir deliverability. It is believed that the current flow is limited to a thinner, less permeable, interval whilst the better quality reservoir remains isolated due to potential reservoir damage caused by the invasive fluid damage of the drilling mud. The lower zones in the well, which would have been in communication with the Oligocene interval through the well-bore, were drilled with a 1.9 to 2.2 Specific Gravity (SG) mud due to anticipated reservoir pressures while the results from the testing program indicate that the mid interval reservoir pressure for the Oligocene whilst still over pressured, is lower at 1.7 SG equivalent. As a result of possible mud damage, the current perforations may have not penetrated deep enough beyond the damaged zone to allow proper communication between the more permeable formations and the well-bore.
We considered mobilising a more powerful fraccing unit and equipment to Georgia in order to pump a propant and fluid into the well at high pressure and volume, but the potential for this technology is limited due to a lack of a cement bond behind the casing and the large interval which has been perforated. The well has been left on test production for the past several months but there has been no discernable
increase in gross fluid production rate. As we would appear to have exhausted all the low cost options available to us at this time to bypass any damage that may exist in the near-well-bore area and establish better communication between the well-bore and the reservoir, we believe that the only effective option remaining is to sidetrack the well or to drill a new well. The latter, of course, would enable us to attempt to test both the Oligocene and Middle Eocene intervals both of which are considered to have significantly reduced geological risk as a result of drilling this well.
The Norio PSA covers a large exploration area with what management believe to be good oil and gas potential with the presence of reservoir rocks and moveable hydrocarbons having been confirmed by drilling. We have mapped several significant prospects at different stratigraphic levels within the area several of which are on trend with the MK72 well. Both the Oligocene and Middle Eocene prospects as mapped are potentially large and warrant appraising. It is planned, subject to financing being available from internal resources or through a farm out arrangement, that an appraisal well will be drilled to fully evaluate these attractive discoveries, with the well being designed to enter the Middle Eocene reservoir with a larger hole size.
As the area in which we are currently drilling is an exploration area with no commercial discoveries (excluding the small shallow fields currently operated by Georgian Oil), it is not possible to estimate the expenditures needed to discover and, if discovered, produce commercial quantities of oil and gas.
Block XIG and XIH Production Sharing Contract (“Tbilisi PSC”)
In November 2002, our subsidiary, CanArgo Norio Limited (“CNL”), won the tender for the oil and gas exploration and production rights to the Tbilisi PSC, an area of approximately 119,845 acres (485 Km 2) in eastern Georgia adjacent to the Norio, Block XIII and West Rustavi areas. In July 2003, it was announced that CNL, had signed a Production Sharing Contract covering these areas. The Tbilisi PSC came into effect on September 29, 2003 and will continue for an initial period of ten years at which time it will terminate unless we have made a commercial discovery in which case the PSC will continue in full force and effect until September 29, 2028. The commercial terms of the Tbilisi PSC are similar to those of the Norio PSA with the exception that Georgian Oil does not have an option to acquire an interest in the contractor party’s share following a commercial discovery.
Under the Tbilisi PSC we have a commitment to evaluate existing seismic and geological data which we have completed and acquired additional seismic data within three years of the effective date of the contract which is September 29, 2003. The State Agency for Oil & Gas Regulation in Georgia verbally consented to an extension to the period within which the data should be acquired to the end of 2007, but due to an internal reorganisation of the State Agency, we are only now working with the State Agency to amend the Tbilisi PSC accordingly. The total commitment over the remaining period is $350,000.
Following our acquisition of the minority shareholding in CNL in September 2004, our interest in the Tbilisi PSC increased from 75% to 100%.
The Kumisi Cretaceous gas prospect which is being tested by the Kumisi #1 well extends into the southern part of Block XIG. The well is located within the Nazvrevi / Block XIII PSC area just to the south of the block boundary with the Tbilisi PSC.
Exploration, Appraisal and Development Activities - Kazakhstan
In December 2003, we announced details of the conditional acquisition of certain oil and gas interests in Kazakhstan which had previously been owned by the UK public company, Atlantic Caspian Resources plc (“ACR”). This was to be achieved through a newly established company, Tethys Petroleum Investments Limited (now renamed Tethys Petroleum Limited (“TPL”)) on certain conditions being satisfied. These interests were represented as including a 70% interest in BN Munai LLP (“BNM”), a Kazakh limited liability partnership, which was represented as holding certain exploration and production interests in Kazakhstan including the Akkulka exploration licence and contract and Kyzyloi production licence. Immediately prior to the agreement between TPL and ACR, and as part of that transaction, we entered into an agreement allocating a 45% interest in TPL to Provincial Securities Limited (an investment company to which Mr. Russell Hammond,
one of our non-executive directors, is an Investment Advisor) in consideration for future services of providing advice, help and assistance concerning funding the development of TPL. This transaction resulted in us holding a 45% non-controlling interest in TPL with the remaining interest holder in TPL being ACR with a 10% interest. At this time the licence position with regard to the Akkulka exploration area was subject to review by the Kazakh authorities and further negotiation was required to secure this. In addition the Kyzyloi production contract had not been signed and certain clarification was required with regard to registration of BNM.
TPL and BNM subsequently negotiated a two year extension on the Akkulka Exploration Contract, and a further two year extension was negotiated last year. On June 8, 2004, we announced that that deal was finalized with the registration with the Kazakh authorities of TPL’s interest in BNM, and the Kyzyloi Production Contract was signed in May 2005.
On June 7, 2005, we announced that we had acquired the remaining 55% of TPL by way of a share exchange with the other owners of TPL and TPL had accordingly become a wholly owned subsidiary of the CanArgo Group.
On March 3, 2006, we announced the finalisation of a $13 million private placement of Senior Subordinated Convertible Guaranteed Notes due September 1, 2009 the net proceeds of which are to be used to fund the development of TPL’s assets in Kazakhstan. The noteholders have the right (as an alternative to conversion into CanArgo common stock) for a period of one year from closing (or, if later, until the consent of CanArgo’s Senior Noteholders is obtained), to convert their notes into up to a 25% equity interest in CanArgo’s share of TPL (based on a $52 million valuation for CanArgo’s share of TPL - and adjusted appropriately upwards for a lower valuation).
BNM’s interest centers on the Akkulka area, a 411,916 acre (1,667 Km2) exploration area and the shallow Kyzyloi Gas Field, both located in the North Ustyurt basin in southern Kazakhstan some 41 miles (65 Kms) to the north of the border with the Karalkalpak region of Uzbekistan and 34 miles (55 Kms) to the north-west of the Aral Sea. In the four years prior to our ownership interest, BNM had drilled two deep exploration wells in the Akkulka area, which they plugged and abandoned with minor hydrocarbon shows. The original term of the Exploration Contract was until 17 September 2003, but an extension until September 2005 was agreed, and at that time a further extension until 17 September 2007 was agreed by the Expert Commission, subject to modification to the Contract.
On the Kyzyloi Gas Field a development program is underway. The Kyzyloi Field Contract covers a 70,918 acre (287 Km2) area. The original licence was issued in June 1997 to Kazakgas, as state entity, and acquired by BNM in 2001 with an initial term until June 2007. In January 2005 the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources agreed to extend the period of production on Kyzyloi to June 2014, subject to modification to the Contract, and the Production Contract itself was signed and registered on May 6, 2005.
The field contains sweet natural gas (97% methane) reservoired in shallow sandstones at a depth of approximately 1,640 feet (500 meters) which was discovered, but not developed, during the 1960’s. This field is located close to the Bukhara-Urals gas trunkline, and to the south of the Bozoi gas storage facility. BNM has carried out an extensive workover and testing program on the Kyzyloi Field wells, and the six wells tested to date for the initial development have flowed at a cumulative rate of over 24 million cubic feet (688,000 cubic meters) of gas per day. A gathering system, 32 mile (51 Km) pipeline and compressor station is in the process of construction to connect the Kyzyloi development to the Bukhara-Urals gas trunkline, with the initial planned production rate being 22 million cubic feet (625,000 cubic meters) per day and with first gas planned for late spring 2007. BNM believes that there is significant additional potential both in the Kyzyloi Field and in its surrounding Akkulka exploration contract area. As such the pipeline and associated facilities are being designed such that they could be upgraded to throughput up to 78 million cubic feet (2.2 million cubic meters) per day of gas production.
In January 9, 2005 we announced that BNM had executed a natural gas supply contract with Gaz Impex S.A. LLP (“Gaz Impex”) relating to gas sales from the Kyzyloi Gas Field. The contract, which has a term until June 2014, is based on a take-or-pay principle and covers all gas produced from the Kyzyloi Field Production Contract area. Gas will be supplied to Gaz Impex at a tie in point to the
Bukhara-Urals gas trunkline via the pipeline to be constructed between the field and the trunkline. The price of gas to be supplied at the tie in point averages $1.13 per Mcf ($32 per MCM) over the life of the contract, with Gaz Impex providing bank guarantees against payment. We believe that this is one of the first take-or-pay contracts signed in Kazakhstan for a dedicated dry gas development. Gaz Impex is one of the leading gas marketing companies in Kazakhstan, and is currently involved with gas purchase and supply contracts both within Kazakhstan and in surrounding countries. Previously in October 2005, we announced the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding covering co-operation in the gas sector in Kazakhstan with Gaz Impex.
In 2005 / early 2006 BNM undertook a five well exploration program targeting shallow gas anomalies which may be similar to the Kyzyloi Field within the Akkulka Exploration Contract Area. All five of these wells had gas indications on wireline logs and to date two have been fully production tested, namely AKK04 and AKK05. The AKK05 well, located 4 miles (6.5 Km) north east of the Kyzyloi Field, flowed gas at a rate of 7.9 MMcf (223 MCM) per day. This well effectively extended the Kyzyloi Field to the north east, including an untested fault block (NE Kyzyloi), and work is currently underway with respect to extending the area of the Kyzyloi Production Contract to include the AKK05 well which will be included as a production well in the Kyzyloi Field development. The AKK04 exploration well, located some 12.5 miles (20 Km) east of the Kyzyloi Field, flowed gas at a stabilized flow rate of 8.8 MMcf (250 MCM) of gas per day, and this well, now named Central Akkulka, has been declared a commercial discovery by BNM. An appraisal / exploration well (AKK06) was drilled by BNM late in 2006 to appraise and extend the Central Akkulka accumulation to the south west. This well had gas indications on the wireline logs but remains to be tested as part of an integrated testing program currently underway. It is planned to tie the AKK04 discovery into the Kyzyloi development, initially by way of a long term extended well test, but then by the application for a separate production contract, once the Central Akkulka accumulation has been fully evaluated.
In the other three exploration wells which have been drilled to date, AKK01, AKK02 and AKK03, gas indications were observed during drilling and in thin sands on wireline logs. These sands are present at several stratigraphic levels within the wells. AKK01 lies to the north east of the Kyzyloi Field on a prospect named North Akkulka. Testing of the AKK01 well is planned for Q2 2007 as part of the current integrated testing program. The AKK02 and AKK03 wells lie to the south east of the Kyzyloi Field on a prospect named South Akkulka. AKK03 is updip of AKK02 and encountered a gas bubble whilst drilling and with gas being noted on the wellhead. This well is currently in the process of being fully flow tested. The downdip well AKK02, which has thin sandstones showing possible gas on wireline logs but with relatively high water saturations, was tested and flowed water from these sands, this well therefore delineating the downdip extent of the South Akkulka prospect at this level (although higher untested sands do exist) which remains to be tested for commercial flow by the AKK03 well.
Further exploration continues on the Akkulka block with four more wells planned for 2007. Currently the AKK07 (South West Akkulka) well is drilling and is currently at a depth of feet ( 275 meters).
Initial work is now completed on a geophysical remapping of the Akkulka exploration block. This work has confirmed the presence of additional potential shallow gas prospects (some of which are being drilled in the current drilling program), and also some potentially large prospects at Jurassic/Triassic levels. Regional geological studies suggest that these deeper prospects could have potential for gas condensate or oil deposits.
In November 2005 we announced that BNM had completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Greater Akkulka Exploration & Production Contract. This contract, which is for a period of 25 years from 2005, with an initial six year exploration period, covers an area of approximately 2.78 million acres (11,230 Km2) surrounding the Akkulka area. BNM considers that this area has substantial exploration potential, with extensions of the shallow gas exploration targets and deeper Mesozoic plays. This large area within a proven hydrocarbon system, has potential towards the south and east (towards the Aral Sea), where the Paleogene sand sequence is thought to become thicker and of better quality, and towards the west and north where potential may exist for stratigraphic and pinch-out plays. Initial seismic mapping has shown the presence of several shallow gas prospects and it is planned that drilling would commence on these structures in early 2008. Meanwhile additional 2D seismic data is being acquired this year on the Greater Akkulka Contract Area as part of the work commitment under the contract and to infill the western part of the area prior to the contractual relinquishment of 20% of the area at the end of 2007.
A seismic contractor has been selected and work is expected to commence in the summer of 2007.
In June 2006, we announced that we were planning a spin-out of TPL, and that TPL was planning to seek admission to the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange and raise funds for its development and exploration activities in Kazakhstan. It was planned that we would retain a significant, but not controlling, equity interest in TPL after the admission of TPL to the AIM market. The intention of this spin-out was is to enable the Kazakh assets to be financed whilst minimising dilution of the Georgian assets and potentially raising additional funds for the Georgian operations. In August 2006, we announced certain appointments of new independent directors to the TPL Board in preparation for the spin-out and in September 2006, we announced that TPL had completed a $5 million interim financing in advance of the planned spin-out. In view of market conditions, our brokers were unable to indicate that sufficient capital would be raised to fulfil the capital required to proceed with the AIM admission as planned.
The financing was in the form of the issue of $5 million TPL senior secured notes redeemable on August 31, 2008. TPL has the ability to prepay these notes and the notes are to be automatically prepaid in the event of a flotation or listing of TPL. The proceeds of this financing were to be used to finance through BNM the development of the Kyzyloi Field. The loan note holders also received warrants to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of TPL or, at the discretion of TPL, a royalty in respect of production. The number of shares into which the warrants convert is dependent on the timing of the proposed flotation and the flotation price.
In February 2007, we announced that TPL had completed a private placement with a limited group of private investors raising gross proceeds of approximately $17.35 million, by issuing in total approximately 34.7 million new ordinary shares in TPL (representing approximately 33% of the issued and outstanding share capital of TPL) and with CanArgo Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of CanArgo) retaining our 70,000,000 shares in TPL representing the remaining 67%. Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement entered into with the new private investors, TPL is subject to certain positive and negative covenants which require the consent of the holders of not less than 75% of the ordinary shares in issue in TPL from time to time (the “Shareholder Majority”). The Agreement also outlines certain provisions in relation to the conduct of the TPL business and provided that the intention of TPL, CanArgo Limited and the Investors, as defined in the Agreement, is to use their reasonable endeavours to work towards a listing of TPL as soon as practicable, subject to (i) the financial and commercial circumstances of TPL, and the pre-money valuation of TPL prior to the listing being acceptable to the Shareholder Majority; and (ii) the terms and amounts (if any) raised by TPL on such listing being acceptable to the board of TPL. Tethys has now entered into an Engagement Letter with Jennings Capital Inc. of Calgary, Alberta (“JCI”) engaging JCI to act as lead agent with respect to a planned initial public offering (“IPO”) and listing of Tethys on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) later this year. In addition McDaniel and Associates Consultants Limited have been engaged to carry out an independent evaluation of Tethys’ projects in connection with the proposed listing. The full details of the planned IPO have yet to be finalised.
Agreement has now also been reached whereby, subject to any required Kazakh regulatory approvals Tethys, through its wholly owned subsidiary Tethys Kazakhstan Limited (“TKL”) will acquire the 30% of BNM it does not own in return for 30 million shares in Tethys, and making BNM a wholly owned subsidiary of TKL. TKL’s interest in BNM is currently the principal asset of Tethys. Following this share swap there will be approximately 134.7 million shares in Tethys of which CanArgo will own 70 million (52 %).
In February 2007, we also announced that TPL has signed a “Protocol of Intent (the ”Protocol”) with the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Tajikistan and the State Committee for Investments and Property Management of the Republic of Tajikistan giving TPL the exclusive right to carry out technical evaluations and negotiations with the aim of entering into a contractual arrangement: to carry out oil and gas exploration activities in the Kulibsky region of Southern Tajikistan; to consider involvement in the Alimtai prospect in that region; and to consider co-operation in increasing production on currently operating fields in Tajikistan. A phase of data collection, interpretation and negotiation is planned over the next six months, with the aim of concluding basic agreements during this period.
Refining and Other Activities
We also have engaged in other oil and gas activities in Georgia and elsewhere. A discussion of discontinued operations is incorporated herein by reference from note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.
Drilling Rigs and Associated Equipment
We own several items of drilling equipment, and other related machinery primarily for use in our Georgian operations. These include three drilling rigs, pumping equipment and ancillary machinery. This equipment is currently being used by our operator company to drill exploration wells and provide support to our development work on the Ninotsminda Field and on the Manavi and Norio discoveries.
Employees
As of December 31, 2006, we had 187 full time employees. Of our full time employees, the entity acting as operator of the Ninotsminda Field for NOC has 124 full time employees, and substantially all of that company’s activities relate to the production and development of the Ninotsminda Field. In Kazakhstan our subsidiary BN Munai LLP employed 35 full time employees in Almaty, Aktobe, Astana and Bozoi principally involved with work on the Kyzyloi Field development and Akkulka appraisal / development program. We have not experienced any strikes, work stoppages or other labour disputes and management believes the Company’s relations with its employees are satisfactory.
ITEM 3.