Item 2 of Part I--Properties.) Ongoing modernization programs are part of ABI's overall strategic initiatives. By using controlled environment warehouses and stringent inventory monitoring policies, the quality and freshness of the product are enhanced, thus providing Anheuser-Busch a significant competitive advantage. This has been communicated to consumers through a comprehensive marketing campaign, which includes "Born On" freshness dating on beer packages.
During 1996 approximately 95% of the beer sold by ABI reached retail channels through approximately 900 independent wholesaler locations. ABI utilizes its regional vice-presidents, sales directors, key account and retail sales managers, as well as certain other field sales personnel, to provide merchandising and sales assistance to its wholesalers. In addition, ABI provides national and local media advertising, point-of-sale advertising, and sales promotion programs to help stimulate sales. The remainder of ABI's domestic beer sales in 1996 were made through twelve ABI owned and operated branches, which perform similar sales, merchandising, and delivery services as independent wholesalers in their respective areas.
There are more than 100 companies engaged in the highly competitive brewing industry in the United States. ABI's domestic beers are distributed and sold in competition with other nationally distributed beers, with locally and regionally distributed beers and, to a lesser extent, with imported beers. Although the methods of competition in the industry vary widely, in part due to differences in applicable state laws, the principal methods of competition are product quality, taste and freshness, packaging, price, advertising (including television, radio, sponsorships, billboards, stadium signs, and print media), point-of-sale materials and service to retail customers (including the replacement of over-age products with fresh products at no cost to the retailer). ABI's beers compete in different price categories. Although all brands compete against the total market, Budweiser, Bud Light, Bud Dry, Bud Ice, Bud Ice Light, Michelob Golden Draft, and Michelob Golden Draft Light compete primarily with premium priced beers. Michelob, Michelob Light, Michelob Dry, Michelob Classic Dark, and Michelob Amber Bock compete in the super-premium priced category. Busch, Busch Light, Natural Light, Natural Pilsner, Busch Ice, and Natural Ice compete with the sub-premium or popular priced beers. King Cobra Malt Liquor, Hurricane Malt Liquor, and Michelob Malt compete against other brands in the malt liquor segment. Carlsberg, Carlsberg Light, Elephant Malt Liquor, Elephant Red Lager, and Rio Cristal compete primarily with imported malt beverages. Red Wolf Lager, ZiegenBock Amber, Winter Brew, Michelob HefeWeizen, the American Originals, Pacific Ridge Pale Ale, and the Redhook products compete primarily in the specialty beers segment of the malt beverage market. O'Doul's (premium priced) and Busch NA (sub-premium priced) compete in the non-alcohol malt beverage category. Since 1957, ABI has led the United States brewing industry in total sales volume. In 1996, its sales exceeded those of its nearest competitor by more than 47 million barrels and constituted approximately 45.2% of industry sales volume, including imports, exports and non-alcohol malt beverage sales. Major competitors in the United States brewing industry during 1996 included Philip Morris, Inc. (through its subsidiary Miller Brewing Co.), Adolph Coors Co., and Stroh Brewery Co.
Through various subsidiaries, the Company is involved in a number of beer-related operations. Anheuser-Busch International, Inc. ("ABII"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, negotiates and administers license and contract brewing agreements on behalf of ABI with various foreign brewers. Labatt brews Budweiser and Bud Light for sale in Canada. ABI, through ABII, participates with Kirin Brewery Company, Ltd. in a joint venture in Japan,
Budweiser Japan Company, Ltd., of which the Company is a 90% shareholder, for production, distribution and sale of Budweiser. Through Anheuser-Busch European Trade Ltd. ("ABET"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, certain ABI beer brands are marketed, distributed and sold in twenty-four European countries. In the United Kingdom (U.K.), ABET has full control of sales, marketing and distribution for the Budweiser and Michelob brands to both the on- and off-trade sectors. In 1995, ABII entered into a joint venture with Scottish Courage Ltd. which consolidated the brewing and packaging of Budweiser at the Stag Brewery in London, England; ABII has operating control and owns a 50% share of this joint venture. Michelob continues to be imported into the U.K. by ABET. Guinness Ireland, Ltd. brews and markets Budweiser under license for sale in The Republic of Ireland. Oriental Brewery Ltd. brews Budweiser under license for sale in the Republic of Korea. In 1995, ABII entered into a contract brewing agreement with Sociedad Anonima Damm, one of the largest brewers in Spain, that gives the Spanish brewer rights to contract brew and package beer under the brand name Budweiser in Spain and supplements the brand's existing distribution. In early 1996, ABII purchased an equity interest in Antarctica Empreendimentos E Participacoes ("ANEP"), a subsidiary representing approximately 75% of the operations of Companhia Antarctica Paulista ("Antarctica"), one of Brazil's leading brewers, and formed a strategic partnership with Antarctica. A component of the partnership is a joint venture company named Budweiser Brasil Ltda that markets and distributes locally-produced Budweiser in Brazil. In December 1995, the Company announced that it had formed a three-way alliance with Companhia Cervecerias Unidas S.A. ("CCU"), the leading Chilean brewer, and Buenos Aires Embotelladora S.A. ("BAESA"), PepsiCo's South American bottler. Under the terms of the alliance, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCU in Argentina ("CCU-Argentina") brews Budweiser under license in Argentina and BAESA distributes Budweiser and CCU-Argentina brands in certain geographic regions in Argentina. CCU distributes Budweiser in Chile. The Company purchased a small initial minority stake in CCU-Argentina, with options to increase its holdings in the future. In 1996, the Company formed partnerships with France's largest, and Europe's second-largest brewer, Brasseries Kronenbourg and a leading Swiss brewer, Feldschlosschen, to distribute Bud in France and Switzerland, respectively. In July 1996, ABI through ABII entered into a licensing agreement with Asia Brewery, Inc. for the production, sale and distribution of Budweiser in the Philippines. ABI's beer products are also being sold under import-distribution agreements in more than 80 countries and U.S. territories and to the U.S. military and diplomatic corps outside the continental United States. ABII also oversees the Company's investments in international brewing companies. Since 1993, the Company has owned a 17.7% direct and indirect equity interest in Diblo, S.A. de C.V. ("Diblo"), the operating subsidiary of Mexico's largest brewer, Grupo Modelo, S.A. de C.V. ("Modelo"). The Company announced in December 1996 that it intended to purchase an additional 25% equity interest in Modelo to be completed in February 1997, which would result in the Company owning a 37% direct and indirect interest in Diblo. In early February, the Company announced that it failed to finalize the purchase of the additional 25% due to differences in opinion concerning purchase price adjustments and that the parties would continue discussions on the matter and pursue binding arbitration, if necessary, to resolve the dispute. The Company also owns a 5% equity interest in Tsingtao Brewery Company Ltd., China's largest brewer. In 1995, the Company purchased an 80% equity interest in a joint venture, Budweiser Wuhan International Brewing Company, Ltd., that owns a brewery in Wuhan, the fifth-largest city in China. This ownership interest was increased to 85% during 1996.
The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Metal Container Corporation ("MCC"), manufactures beverage cans at eight plants and beverage can lids at three plants for sale to ABI and to soft drink and export customers. (See Item 2 of Part 1 - -Properties). Another wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corporation ("ABRC"), recycles aluminum cans at its plants in Marion, Ohio and Hayward, California. ABRC is in the process of selling its recycling facilities in Cocoa, Florida, Nashua, New Hampshire, and Bridgeport, New Jersey. The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Precision Printing and Packaging, Inc. ("PPPI"), manufactures metalized and paper labels at its plant in Clarksville, Tennessee and folding cartons at its plant in Paris, Texas. Packaging Business Services, Inc., another wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, provides administrative services and develops existing and new businesses for MCC, ABRC and PPPI.
The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Busch Agricultural Resources, Inc. ("BARI"), operates rice drying, milling and research facilities in Arkansas and California; twelve grain elevators in the western and midwestern United States; barley seed processing plants in Moorhead, Minnesota, Fairfield, Montana, Idaho Falls, Idaho, and Powell, Wyoming; a barley research facility in Ft. Collins, Colorado; and a wild rice processing facility in Minnesota. BARI also owns malt plants in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, Moorhead, Minnesota, and Idaho Falls, Idaho. Through wholly-owned subsidiaries, BARI operates land application farms in Jacksonville, Florida, and Fort Collins, Colorado; hop farms in northern Idaho and Germany; and an international office in Mar del Plata, Argentina. BARI's land
application farm in Fayetteville, Tennessee was included in the ESI Sale, and its land application farm in Robersonville, North Carolina was sold separately in December 1996.
Another wholly-owned subsidiary, Anheuser-Busch Investment Capital Corporation, shares equity positions with qualified partners in independent beer wholesalerships and is currently invested in 12 wholesalerships.
Through other wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Company owns and operates a marketing communications business (Busch Creative Services Corporation) and a transportation service business (Manufacturers Railway Co. and St. Louis Refrigerator Car Co.).
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS--FOOD PRODUCTS
As a result of the Spin-Off, Earthgrains became an independent publicly held company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and its operations ceased to be owned by the Company.
In connection with the ESI Sale, the Company sold the ESI snack food manufacturing plants in Fayetteville, Tennessee, Visalia, California, and York, Pennsylvania and its land application farm in Fayetteville, Tennessee to Frito-Lay, Inc. The ESI snack food manufacturing plant and the Company's land application farm in Robersonville, North Carolina were sold separately in December 1996. The Company also sold its Hyannis, Massachusetts plant, which makes Cape Cod potato chips and popcorn products, in April 1996. The Company sold the Eagle brand to Procter and Gamble Company in April 1996.
FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT
The Company is active in the family entertainment field, primarily through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Busch Entertainment Corporation ("BEC"), which currently owns, directly and through subsidiaries, nine theme parks.
BEC operates Busch Gardens theme parks in Tampa, Florida and Williamsburg, Virginia, and Sea World theme parks in Orlando, Florida, San Antonio, Texas, Aurora, Ohio, and San Diego, California. BEC also operates water park attractions in Tampa, Florida (Adventure Island) and Williamsburg, Virginia (Water Country, U.S.A.), an educational play park for children near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Sesame Place), and the Baseball City Sports Complex near Orlando, Florida. Due to the seasonality of the theme park business, BEC experiences higher revenues in the second and third quarters and lower revenues in the first and fourth quarters.
Through a Spanish affiliate, the Company also owns a 19.9% equity interest in Port Aventura, S.A., which is a theme park near Barcelona, Spain.
In March 1996, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of Civic Center Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that owns Busch Stadium and other properties in downtown St. Louis) and the St. Louis National Baseball Club, Inc. (St. Louis Cardinals) to a group comprised primarily of local investors.
The Company faces competition in the family entertainment field from other theme and amusement parks, public zoos, public parks, and other family entertainment events and attractions.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Busch Properties, Inc. ("BPI"), the Company is engaged in the business of real estate development. BPI also owns and operates a resort and conference center in Williamsburg, Virginia (Kingsmill).
SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS
The products manufactured by the Company require a large volume of various agricultural products, including barley for malt; hops, malt, rice, and corn grits for beer; and rice for the rice milling and processing operations of BARI. The Company fulfills its commodities requirements through purchases from various sources, including purchases from its subsidiaries, through contractual arrangements, and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned agricultural products are available at the present time, but cannot predict future availability or prices of such products and materials. The commodity markets have experienced and will continue to experience major price fluctuations. The price and supply of raw materials will be determined by, among other factors, the level of crop production, weather conditions, export demand, and government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture. The Company requires aluminum can sheet for manufacture of
cans and lids. Market prices for aluminum can sheet fell in 1996 as supply and demand, for aluminum ingot and fabrication, returned to more normal levels. Can sheet prices in the future are expected to be impacted by similar market forces.
ENERGY MATTERS
The Company uses natural gas, fuel oil, and coal as its primary fuel materials. All of ABI's breweries can operate with either natural gas or fuel oil. The St. Louis brewery has the additional capability to use coal. Supplies of fuels in quantities sufficient to meet ABI's total requirements are expected to be available on a year-round basis during 1997. The supply of natural gas, fuel oils and coal is normally covered by yearly contracts and no difficulty has been experienced in entering into these contracts. The cost of fuels used by ABI increased in 1996 and is expected to be at comparable levels in 1997. Based upon information presently available, there can be no assurance that adequate supplies of fuel will always be available to the Company and, should such supplies not be available, the Company's sales and earnings would be adversely affected.
BRAND NAMES AND TRADEMARKS
Some of the Company's major brand names used in its principal business segments are mentioned in the discussion above. The Company regards consumer recognition of and loyalty to all of its brand names and trademarks as extremely important to the long-term success of its principal business segments.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Company is involved in a number of research activities relating to the development of new products or services or the improvement of existing products or services. The dollar amounts expended by the Company during the past three years on such research activities and the number of employees engaged full time therein during such period, however, are not considered to be material in relation to the total business of the Company.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
All of the Company's plants are subject to federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations, and the Company is operating within existing laws and regulations or is taking action aimed at assuring compliance therewith. Various proactive strategies are utilized to help assure this compliance. Compliance with such laws and regulations is not expected to materially affect the Company's capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. The Company has devoted considerable effort to research, development and engineering of cost effective innovative systems to minimize effects on the environment from its operating facilities. A major portion of pollution prevention and pollution control expenditures in 1996 and projected for 1997 was or will be justified on the basis of cost reduction.
These projects, coupled with the Company's environmental management system and an overall Company emphasis on pollution prevention and resource conservation initiatives, are improving efficiencies and creating saleable by-products from residuals and have generally resulted in low cost operating systems while reducing impact on the air, water, and land environments.
ENVIRONMENTAL PACKAGING LAWS AND REGULATIONS
The states of California, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, Oregon, and Vermont have adopted certain restrictive packaging laws and regulations for beverages that require deposits on packages. ABI continues to do business in these states. Such laws have not had a significant effect on ABI's sales, but have had a significant adverse impact on beer industry growth and are considered by the Company to be inflationary, costly, and inefficient for recycling packaging materials. Congress and a number of additional states continue to consider similar legislation, the adoption of which by Congress or a substantial number of states or additional local jurisdictions might require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 1996, the Company had 25,123 employees.
As of December 31, 1996, approximately 8,870 employees were represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Eighteen other unions represented approximately 1,567 employees. The current labor agreement between ABI and the Brewery and Soft Drink Workers Conference of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents the majority of brewery workers, expires February 28, 1998.
The Company considers its employee relations to be good.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
ABI has twelve breweries in operation at the present time, located in St. Louis, Missouri; Newark, New Jersey; Los Angeles and Fairfield, California; Jacksonville, Florida; Houston, Texas; Columbus, Ohio; Merrimack, New Hampshire; Williamsburg, Virginia; Baldwinsville, New York; Fort Collins, Colorado; and Cartersville, Georgia. Title to the Baldwinsville, New York brewery is held by the Onondaga County Industrial Development Agency ("OCIDA") pursuant to a Sale and Agency Agreement with ABI, which enabled OCIDA to issue tax exempt pollution control and industrial development revenue notes and bonds to finance a portion of the cost of the purchase and modification of the brewery. The brewery is not pledged or mortgaged to secure any of the notes or bonds, and the Sale and Agency Agreement with OCIDA gives ABI the unconditional right to require at any time that title to the brewery be transferred to ABI. ABI's breweries operated at approximately 93.9% of capacity in 1996; during the peak selling periods (second and third quarters), they operated at maximum capacity. The Company also owns an 85% equity interest in a joint venture that operates a brewery in Wuhan, China.
The Company, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, operates malt plants in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, Moorhead, Minnesota and Idaho Falls, Idaho; rice mills in Jonesboro, Arkansas and Woodland, California; a wild rice processing facility in Clearbrook, Minnesota; can manufacturing plants in Jacksonville, Florida, Columbus, Ohio, Arnold, Missouri, Windsor, Colorado, Newburgh, New York, Ft. Atkinson, Wisconsin, Rome, Georgia, and Mira Loma, California; and can lid manufacturing plants in Gainesville, Florida, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and Riverside, California.
BEC operates its principal family entertainment facilities in Tampa, Florida; Williamsburg, Virginia; San Diego, California; Aurora, Ohio; Orlando, Florida; and San Antonio, Texas. The Tampa facility is 265 acres, Williamsburg is 364 acres, San Diego is 165 acres, Aurora is 90 acres, Orlando is 224 acres, and the San Antonio facility is 496 acres.
Except for the Baldwinsville brewery, the can manufacturing plant in Newburgh, New York, the Sea World park in San Diego, California, and the brewery in Wuhan, China, all of the Company's principal properties are owned in fee. The lease for the land used by the Sea World park in San Diego, California expires in 2033. The joint venture that operates the brewery in Wuhan was granted the right to use the property for a period of 50 years from the appropriate governmental authorities. The Company considers its buildings, improvements, and equipment to be well maintained and in good condition, irrespective of dates of initial construction, and adequate to meet the operating demands placed upon them. The production capacity of each of the manufacturing facilities is adequate for current needs and, except as described above, substantially all of each facility's capacity is utilized.
ITEM 3.