Item 2 of Part I--Properties.) Ongoing modernization programs are part of ABI's overall strategic initiatives. By using controlled environment warehouses and stringent inventory monitoring policies, the quality and freshness of the product are protected, thus providing Anheuser-Busch a significant competitive advantage. This has been communicated to consumers through a comprehensive marketing campaign, which includes "Born On" freshness dating on beer packages.
During 1997 approximately 95% of the beer sold by ABI, measured in barrels, reached retail channels through approximately 860 independent wholesalers. ABI utilizes its regional vice-presidents, sales directors, key account and market managers, as well as certain other field sales personnel, to provide merchandising and sales assistance to its wholesalers. In addition, ABI provides national and local media advertising, point-of-sale advertising, and sales promotion programs to help stimulate sales. The remainder of ABI's domestic beer sales in 1997 were made through twelve ABI owned and operated branches, which perform similar sales, merchandising, and delivery services as wholesalers in their respective areas.
There are more than 100 companies engaged in the highly competitive brewing industry in the United States. ABI's domestic beers are distributed and sold in competition with other nationally distributed beers, with locally and regionally distributed beers and, to a lesser extent, with imported beers. Although the methods of competition in the industry vary widely, in part due to differences in applicable state laws, the principal methods of competition are product quality, taste and freshness, packaging, price, advertising (including television, radio, sponsorships, billboards, stadium signs, and print media), point-of-sale materials, and service to retail customers (including the replacement of over-age products with fresh products at no cost to the retailer). ABI's beers compete in different price categories. Although all brands compete against the total market, Budweiser, Bud Light, Bud Dry, Bud Ice, Bud Ice Light, Michelob Golden Draft, and Michelob Golden Draft Light compete primarily with premium priced beers. Michelob, Michelob Light, Michelob Dry, Michelob Classic Dark, and Michelob Amber Bock compete in the super-premium price category. Busch, Busch Light, Natural Light, Busch Ice, and Natural Ice compete with the sub-premium or popular priced beers. King Cobra, Hurricane Malt Liquor, Hurricane Ice, and Michelob Malt compete against other brands in the malt liquor segment. Elk Mountain Amber Ale, Kirin Lager, Kirin Light, Kirin-Ichiban, Rio Cristal, and Azteca compete primarily with imported malt beverages. Faust Golden Lager, American Hop Ale, Black & Tan Porter, Catalina Blonde, Michelob Golden Pilsner, Michelob Honey Lager, Michelob Maple Brown, Michelob Pale Ale, Michelob Porter, Michelob Spiced Ale, Tequiza, Elk Mountain Red Lager, Red Wolf Lager, ZiegenBock Amber, Winter Brew, Michelob Hefe-weizen, Pacific Ridge, the Redhook products, and Widmer Biers products compete primarily in the specialty beers segment of the malt beverage market. O'Doul's and O'Doul's Amber (premium priced) and Busch NA (sub-premium priced) compete in the non-alcohol malt beverage category. Since 1957, ABI has led the United States brewing industry in total sales volume. In 1997, its sales exceeded those of its nearest competitor by more than 47 million barrels and constituted approximately 45.5% of industry domestic sales volume, including imports and non-alcohol malt beverage sales. Major competitors in the United States brewing industry during 1997 included Philip Morris, Inc. (through its subsidiary Miller Brewing Co.), Adolph Coors Co., and Stroh Brewery Co.
Through various subsidiaries, the Company is involved in a number of beer-related operations. Anheuser-Busch International, Inc. ("ABII"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, negotiates and administers license and
contract brewing agreements on behalf of ABI with various foreign brewers. Labatt Brewing Co. brews Budweiser and Bud Light for sale in Canada. ABI, through ABII, participates with Kirin Brewery Company, Ltd. in a joint venture in Japan, Budweiser Japan Company, Ltd., of which the Company is a 90% shareholder, for marketing, distribution and sale of Budweiser. Through Anheuser-Busch European Trade Ltd. ("ABET"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, certain ABI beer brands are marketed, distributed and sold in twenty-four European countries. In the United Kingdom (U.K.), ABET sells Budweiser, Bud Ice, Michelob, and Michelob Golden Draft brands to the off-trade sectors, while on-trade accounts are supplied by other brewers and wholesalers. In 1995, ABET and Scottish Courage Ltd. entered into a joint venture, Stag Brewing Company Limited, which brews and packages Budweiser at the Stag Brewery near London, England. In July 1997, ABET purchased Scottish Courage's 50% interest in the joint venture company giving ABET full control over the management and operation of the brewery. Michelob, Bud Ice and Michelob Golden Draft continue to be imported into the U.K. by ABET. Budweiser is also brewed under license and sold by brewers in Korea (Oriental Brewery Ltd.), the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland (Guinness Ireland Ltd.), and Italy (Birra Peroni Industriale). In 1995, ABII entered into a contract brewing agreement with Sociedad Anonima Damm, one of the largest brewers in Spain, that gives the Spanish brewer rights to contract brew and package beer under the brand name Budweiser in Spain and supplements the brand's existing distribution. In early 1996, ABII purchased an equity interest in Antarctica Empreendimentos e Participacoes ("ANEP"), a subsidiary representing approximately 75% of the operations of Companhia Antarctica Paulista ("Antarctica"), one of Brazil's leading brewers, and formed a strategic partnership with Antarctica. A component of the partnership is a joint venture company named Budweiser Brasil Ltda. that markets and distributes locally-produced Budweiser in Brazil. In December 1995, the Company announced that it had formed a three-way alliance with Compania Cervecerias Unidas S.A. ("CCU"), the leading Chilean brewer, and Buenos Aires Embotelladora S.A. ("BAESA"), PepsiCo's South American bottler. Under the terms of the alliance, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCU in Argentina ("CCU-Argentina") brews Budweiser under license in Argentina and BAESA distributes Budweiser and CCU-Argentina brands in certain geographic regions in Argentina. CCU also distributes Budweiser in Chile. The Company purchased a small initial minority stake in CCU-Argentina, with options to increase its holdings in the future. In 1996, the Company formed partnerships with France's largest, and Europe's second-largest brewer, Brasseries Kronenbourg, and Gastrodrink, a joint venture between Brasseries Kronenbourg and Feldschlosschen, a leading Swiss brewer, to distribute Bud in France and Switzerland, respectively. The agreement with Gastrodrink was terminated by the Company in the first quarter of 1998 and the Company is exploring alternative distribution arrangements. In July 1996, ABI through ABII entered into a licensing agreement with Asia Brewery, Inc. for the production, sale and distribution of Budweiser in the Philippines. ABI's beer products are also being sold under import-distribution agreements in more than 80 countries and U.S. territories and to the U.S. military and diplomatic corps outside the continental United States.
ABII also negotiates and oversees the Company's investments in international brewing companies. In 1993, Anheuser-Busch purchased a 17.7% direct and indirect equity interest in Grupo Modelo's operating subsidiary, Diblo, for $477 million. In May 1997, the Company increased its direct and indirect equity ownership in Diblo to 37% for an additional $605 million. In June 1997, the Company exercised its remaining option to purchase a further equity interest. Due diligence is complete and the Company and the controlling shareholders of Grupo Modelo are pursuing arbitration to resolve a dispute over the purchase price for Anheuser-Busch's additional shares. When completed, the Company will own a 50.2% direct and indirect interest in Diblo. However, the Company will not have voting control in either Grupo Modelo or Diblo. The Company also owns a 5% equity interest in Tsingtao Brewery Company Ltd., a leading Chinese brewer. In 1995, the Company purchased an initial 80% equity interest in a joint venture, renamed the Budweiser Wuhan International Brewing Company, Ltd., that owns and operates a brewery in Wuhan, the fifth-largest city in China. This ownership interest was subsequently increased to 86.6%.
The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Metal Container Corporation ("MCC"), manufactures beverage cans at eight plants and beverage can lids at three plants for sale to ABI and to soft drink and export customers. (See Item 2 of Part 1 - -Properties). Another wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corporation ("ABRC"), recycles aluminum cans at its plants in Marion, Ohio and Hayward, California. ABRC sold its recycling facilities in Cocoa, Florida, Nashua, New Hampshire, and Bridgeport, New Jersey during 1997. The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Precision Printing and Packaging, Inc. ("PPPI"), manufactures metalized and paper labels at its plant in Clarksville, Tennessee and folding cartons at its plant in Paris, Texas, which PPPI has announced it intends to sell. Packaging Business Services, Inc., another wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, provides administrative services and develops existing and new businesses for MCC, ABRC and PPPI.
The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Busch Agricultural Resources, Inc. ("BARI"), operates rice drying, milling and research facilities in Arkansas and California; twelve grain elevators in the western and midwestern United States; barley seed processing plants in Moorhead, Minnesota, Fairfield, Montana, Idaho Falls, Idaho, and Powell, Wyoming; a barley research facility in Ft. Collins, Colorado; and a wild rice processing facility in Clearbrook, Minnesota. BARI also owns malt plants in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, Moorhead, Minnesota, and Idaho Falls, Idaho. Through wholly-owned subsidiaries, BARI operates land application farms in Jacksonville, Florida and Fort Collins, Colorado; hop farms in northern Idaho and Germany; and an international office in Mar del Plata, Argentina.
Another wholly-owned subsidiary, Anheuser-Busch Investment Capital Corporation, shares equity positions with qualified partners in independent beer wholesalerships and is currently invested in 8 wholesalerships.
Through other wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Company owns and operates a marketing communications business (Busch Creative Services Corporation) and transportation service businesses (Manufacturers Railway Co. and St. Louis Refrigerator Car Co.).
FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT
The Company is active in the family entertainment field, primarily through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Busch Entertainment Corporation ("BEC"), which currently owns, directly and through subsidiaries, nine theme parks.
BEC operates Busch Gardens theme parks in Tampa, Florida and Williamsburg, Virginia, and Sea World theme parks in Orlando, Florida, San Antonio, Texas, Aurora, Ohio, and San Diego, California. BEC also operates water park attractions in Tampa, Florida (Adventure Island) and Williamsburg, Virginia (Water Country, U.S.A.), an educational play park for children near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Sesame Place), and the Baseball City Sports Complex near Orlando, Florida. Due to the seasonality of the theme park business, BEC experiences higher revenues in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters.
Through a Spanish affiliate, the Company also owns a 19.9% equity interest in Port Aventura, S.A., which is a theme park near Barcelona, Spain.
The Company faces competition in the family entertainment field from other theme and amusement parks, public zoos, public parks, and other family entertainment events and attractions.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Busch Properties, Inc. ("BPI"), the Company is engaged in the business of real estate development. BPI also owns and operates a resort and conference center in Williamsburg, Virginia (Kingsmill).
SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS
The products manufactured by the Company require a large volume of various agricultural products, including barley for malt; hops, malt, rice, and corn grits for beer; and rice for the rice milling and processing operations of BARI. The Company fulfills its commodities requirements through purchases from various sources, including purchases from its subsidiaries, through contractual arrangements, and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned agricultural products are available at the present time, but cannot predict future availability or prices of such products and materials. The commodity markets have experienced and will continue to experience major price fluctuations. The price and supply of raw materials will be determined by, among other factors, the level of crop production, weather conditions, export demand, and government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture. The Company requires aluminum can sheet for manufacture of cans and lids. Can sheet prices are impacted by supply and demand for aluminum ingot and fabrication.
ENERGY MATTERS
The Company uses natural gas, fuel oil, and coal as its primary fuel materials. Supplies of fuels in quantities sufficient to meet ABI's total requirements are expected to be available on a year-round basis during 1998. The supply of natural gas, fuel oil, and coal is normally covered by yearly contracts and no difficulty has been experienced in entering into these contracts. The cost of fuel used by ABI increased in 1997 and is expected to be at comparable levels in 1998. Based upon information presently available, there can be no assurance that adequate supplies of fuel
will always be available to the Company and, should such supplies not be available, the Company's sales and earnings would be adversely affected.
BRAND NAMES AND TRADEMARKS
Some of the Company's major brand names used in its principal business segments are mentioned in the discussion above. The Company regards consumer recognition of and loyalty to all of its brand names and trademarks as extremely important to the long-term success of its principal business segments.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Company is involved in a number of research activities relating to the development of new products or services or the improvement of existing products or services. The dollar amounts expended by the Company during the past three years on such research activities and the number of employees engaged full time therein during such period, however, are not considered to be material in relation to the total business of the Company.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
All of the Company's plants are subject to federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations, and the Company is operating within existing laws and regulations or is taking action aimed at assuring compliance therewith. Various proactive strategies are utilized to help assure this compliance. Compliance with such laws and regulations is not expected to materially affect the Company's capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. The Company has devoted considerable effort to research, development and engineering of cost effective innovative systems to minimize effects on the environment from its operating facilities. A major portion of pollution prevention and pollution control expenditures in 1997 and projected for 1998 was or will be justified on the basis of cost reduction.
These projects, coupled with the Company's environmental management system and an overall Company emphasis on pollution prevention and resource conservation initiatives, are improving efficiencies and creating saleable by-products from residuals and have generally resulted in low cost operating systems while reducing impact on the air, water, and land environments.
ENVIRONMENTAL PACKAGING LAWS AND REGULATIONS
The states of California, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, Oregon, and Vermont have adopted certain restrictive packaging laws and regulations for beverages that require deposits on packages. ABI continues to do business in these states. Such laws have not had a significant effect on ABI's sales, but have had a significant adverse impact on beer industry growth and are considered by the Company to be inflationary, costly, and inefficient for recycling packaging materials. Congress and a number of additional states continue to consider similar legislation, the adoption of which by Congress or a substantial number of states or additional local jurisdictions might require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 24,326 employees.
As of December 31, 1997, approximately 8,705 employees were represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Seventeen other unions represented approximately 1,511 employees. The current labor agreement between ABI and the Brewery and Soft Drink Workers Conference of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents the majority of brewery workers, was scheduled to expire on February 28, 1998; it has been extended to March 29, 1998 while the parties continue to negotiate a new agreement.
The Company considers its employee relations to be good.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
ABI has twelve breweries in operation at the present time, located in St. Louis, Missouri; Newark, New Jersey; Los Angeles and Fairfield, California; Jacksonville, Florida; Houston, Texas; Columbus, Ohio; Merrimack, New
Hampshire; Williamsburg, Virginia; Baldwinsville, New York; Fort Collins, Colorado; and Cartersville, Georgia. Title to the Baldwinsville, New York brewery is held by the Onondaga County Industrial Development Agency ("OCIDA") pursuant to a Sale and Agency Agreement with ABI, which enabled OCIDA to issue tax exempt pollution control and industrial development revenue notes and bonds to finance a portion of the cost of the purchase and modification of the brewery. The brewery is not pledged or mortgaged to secure any of the notes or bonds, and the Sale and Agency Agreement with OCIDA gives ABI the unconditional right to require at any time that title to the brewery be transferred to ABI. ABI's breweries operated at approximately 97% of capacity in 1997; during the peak selling periods (second and third quarters), they operated at maximum capacity. The Company also owns an 86.6% equity interest in a joint venture that owns and operates a brewery in Wuhan, China. The Company also operates the Stag Brewery near London, England.
The Company, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, operates malt plants in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, Moorhead, Minnesota, and Idaho Falls, Idaho; rice mills in Jonesboro, Arkansas and Woodland, California; a wild rice processing facility in Clearbrook, Minnesota; can manufacturing plants in Jacksonville, Florida, Columbus, Ohio, Arnold, Missouri, Windsor, Colorado, Newburgh, New York, Ft. Atkinson, Wisconsin, Rome, Georgia, and Mira Loma, California; and can lid manufacturing plants in Gainesville, Florida, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and Riverside, California.
BEC operates its principal family entertainment facilities in Tampa, Florida; Williamsburg, Virginia; San Diego, California; Aurora, Ohio; Orlando, Florida; and San Antonio, Texas. The Tampa facility is 265 acres, Williamsburg is 364 acres, San Diego is 165 acres, Aurora is 90 acres, Orlando is 224 acres, and the San Antonio facility is 496 acres.
Except for the Baldwinsville brewery, the can manufacturing plants in Newburgh, New York and Rome, Georgia, the Sea World park in San Diego, California, the Stag Brewery, and the brewery in Wuhan, China, all of the Company's principal properties are owned in fee. The lease for the land used by the Sea World park in San Diego, California expires in 2033. The Company leases the Stag Brewery from Scottish Courage, Ltd. The joint venture that operates the brewery in Wuhan was granted the right to use the property for a period of 50 years from the appropriate governmental authorities. The Company also leases a bottling line at its brewery in Cartersville, Georgia. The Company considers its buildings, improvements, and equipment to be well maintained and in good condition, irrespective of dates of initial construction, and adequate to meet the operating demands placed upon them. The production capacity of each of the manufacturing facilities is adequate for current needs and, except as described above, substantially all of each facility's capacity is utilized.
ITEM 3.