Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply.)
EUA Cogenex
EUA Cogenex is a wholly owned subsidiary of EUA. EUA Cogenex operates in three segments of the energy management industry:
Energy Management Services (EMS)
EMS encompasses EUA Cogenex's original business activities, in which EUA Cogenex provides EMS directly to institutional, commercial/industrial and governmental customers to reduce their energy costs and consumption. In its EMS programs, EUA Cogenex employs energy efficiency technology and equipment through building automation, lighting modifications, boiler replacement, and other heat recovery methods. EUA Cogenex is compensated for these services primarily through "shared savings" or energy services agreements in which EUA Cogenex and the customer, who occupies or owns a facility, agree upon a prescribed base year and a set of savings calculations. EUA Cogenex then receives a portion of the savings that result from the installation and maintenance of the energy efficient equipment in the facility. EUA Cogenex revenues under these agreements are dependent upon the actual achievement of energy savings; therefore EUA Cogenex assesses the financial and technical risk of each customer and project. EUA Cogenex finances the project and acts as the contractor for each project by engaging the necessary professionals to install and/or modify equipment.
Demand Side Management (DSM)
EUA Cogenex participates in demand side management programs sponsored by electric utilities as a means to decrease both base load and peak demand on the utilities' systems. In utility DSM programs, EUA Cogenex contracts with the utility and its commercial and industrial customers in order to decrease the overall demand on the utility system or to reduce peak demand, curtailing the need for costly capacity additions. EUA Cogenex is paid by the utility based on the reduction in the demand on the utility's system and may also receive a portion of the customers' savings by entering into shared savings agreements of the type described above with those customers. EUA Cogenex contracts for utility DSM programs through a bidding process or participates in the utility's "Standard Offer Program". EUA Cogenex also may, from time to time, acquire existing DSM contracts or the benefits from those contracts from other DSM contractors.
Self-Generation
EUA Cogenex participates in various self-generation projects in which it installs electric and heat generating facilities for a particular building or group of buildings. Typically, electricity and heat can be generated by the cogeneration facility at a lower cost to the building owners or occupants than the retail cost of heating fuel and electricity sold by the local utility. When combined with other energy management services provided by EUA Cogenex, cogeneration projects can result in savings to the owners or occupants, a portion of which is paid to EUA Cogenex. In a self-generation project, a cogeneration facility (i) is sized to a minimum base load thermal requirement for the customer and (ii) produces electricity which displaces a portion of the customer's retail electric consumption -- a so-called "inside the fence" application. EUA Cogenex's strategy has been to keep its cogeneration projects below a five megawatt level, sized to a minimum base load thermal requirement for the particular facility to avoid competition from larger independent power project developers.
EUA Cogenex also provides consulting services to its customers in the form of training in the proper use and maintenance of the energy equipment. This service includes instruction in the use of existing equipment as well as newly installed equipment so that further energy savings can be realized. In addition, EUA Cogenex monitors installed projects on a 24 hour basis and dispatches third party contractors to make repairs and/or adjustments.
There are no seasonal factors that impact normal business operations of EUA Cogenex.
There is no single customer, small group of customers, or outside supplier, the loss of which would have a materially adverse effect on the operations of the business of EUA Cogenex.
As a result of its ownership by EUA, a registered holding company under the 1935 Act, EUA Cogenex is regulated by the SEC in matters related to financing and asset acquisitions. In addition, the SEC requires that EUA Cogenex earn more than 50% of its revenues in the New England/New York area, not including revenues derived from development of qualifying cogeneration facilities and qualifying small power production facilities. To date, revenues have continued to grow within the New England/New York area so that they have not limited EUA Cogenex's growth outside that area. For the year ended December 31, 1993, approximately 72% of EUA Cogenex's revenues subject to this restriction were generated from within the New England/New York area. The Day Co. and NEM acquisitions, as discussed below, will provide additional revenues from the New England/New York area in 1994 and beyond. Nevertheless, EUA Cogenex is actively pursuing legislative action and may pursue regulatory action to mitigate any future negative impact that current geographic requirements may have on future revenues. If EUA Cogenex's endeavors are unsuccessful, revenues from outside the New England/New York area may be restricted.
At December 31, 1993, EUA Cogenex employed 238 persons in its operations, of which 54 employees were added with the acquisitions of James L. Day Co. There were no additional EUA employees as a result of the acquisition of Northeast Energy Management, Inc. on January 4, 1994. (see below)
EUA Cogenex's competition in the EMS market is comprised primarily of the manufacturers and distributors of the energy efficiency equipment which it installs. Competition within the DSM markets is primarily from other energy services companies and engineering consulting firms. Competition in the self-generation industry is limited given EUA Cogenex's focus on the small cogeneration units and its strategy of limiting development of new cogeneration projects.
EUA Nova, a division of EUA Cogenex acquired in December, 1992, provides lighting services designed to achieve an efficiency gain through the integration of various lamp, ballast and light reflector products. EUA Nova's other business activities include the retail sale and installation of energy-conserving window film for residential, commercial, industrial and institutional sales and computer-aided designed custom lighting services.
In December 1993, EUA Cogenex acquired the James L. Day Co. (renamed EUA Day). EUA Day is primarily engaged in the business of customization, installation and servicing of building temperature control systems and process control systems for the purpose of energy conservation. These systems are primarily designed for regulating lighting and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning, but can also simultaneously be used for security surveillance, building entry and exit, equipment monitoring, and air quality monitoring. The acquisition of EUA Day is intended to enable EUA Cogenex to increase its market share in building control systems, and at the same time provide customers with EUA Day's expertise in system customization and enhanced applications.
In January 1994, EUA Cogenex acquired Northeast Energy Management, Inc., a DSM contractor operating in Maine. EUA Cogenex acquired the existing utility DSM contract with Central Maine Power Company under its "Power Partners Program" for commercial/industrial energy efficiency projects. Because all of NEM's customers are located in Maine, the acquisition will allow EUA Cogenex to expand the services it provides in its base region (New England and New York). The acquisition will also afford EUA Cogenex the opportunity to market additional energy services to those customers and engage in new projects with other Central Maine Power Company customers.
EUA Cogenex currently participates in seven partnerships. It is the managing general partner in six of the partnerships and a general partner in the seventh. EUA Cogenex also has limited partnership interest in six of the partnerships. EUA Cogenex has provided virtually all of the capital to the partnerships and is generally entitled to a return of, and on, this capital before any significant partnership distribution is made to the other general partners. All partnerships and their customers are subject to the same selection and screening process to establish acceptable credit quality.
The rates charged by EUA Cogenex to its EMS and DSM customers are not subject to the jurisdiction of any regulatory agency. In addition, the prices charged by EUA Cogenex to its self-generation customers have not been regulated by any federal or state authority. In some states where EUA Cogenex has a QF facility, it is possible that a state public utility commission may seek to assert jurisdiction over the terms of EUA Cogenex's cogeneration contract.
The following table sets forth the amounts of revenues, pre-tax income, net earnings and identifiable assets attributable to the consolidated operations of EUA Cogenex:
Year Ended December 31, 1993 1992 1991 (Thousands)
Operating Revenues $ 66,912 $ 44,154 $ 29,729
Pre-tax Income $ 5,864 $ 4,798 $ 3,596
Net Earnings $ 3,536 $ 2,839 $ 2,785
Total Assets $191,432 $150,658 $107,104
See Note J of Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1993 (Exhibit 13-1 filed herewith).
Construction and Energy Related Investments
The EUA System's construction expenditures for the year ended December 31, 1993 were approximately $63.1 million (including AFUDC and capitalized interest of EUA Cogenex of approximately $2.4 million).
Planned construction expenditures for 1994, 1995 and 1996, as set forth below, are estimated to total $278.9 million (including AFUDC and capitalized interest of approximately $13.5 million and estimated environmental expenditures and nuclear fuel costs where applicable). These projections do not include expenditures for compliance with nitrogen oxide emissions standards under the Clean Air Act for certain units in which Montaup has a joint ownership interest.
EUA SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM (Dollars in Thousands)
1994 1995 1996 3-Yr.Total
Generation $21,281 $15,540 $20,847 $ 57,668 Transmission 4,905 2,902 808 8,615 Distribution 19,327 21,309 20,509 61,145 General 848 1,153 837 2,838 Total Utility 46,361 40,904 43,001 130,266 EUA Cogenex 45,491 51,563 51,563 148,617 Total $91,852 $92,467 $94,564 $278,883 ======= ======= ======= ========
Investments in energy related facilities in 1993, primarily those of EUA Cogenex, amounted to approximately $13.2 million. Energy related investments of EUA Cogenex are estimated to be $11.3 million in 1994 and $10.0 million in 1995 and 1996, respectively.
Fuel for Generation
For 1993, the EUA System's sources of energy, by fuel type, were as follows: 34% nuclear, 26% gas, 6% coal, 28% oil and 6% other. During 1993, Montaup had an average inventory of 87,108 tons of coal for its steam generating units at the Somerset Station, the equivalent of 62 days' supply (based on average daily output at 80% capacity factor for the coal units (see Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply)). The cost of coal averaged about $46.14 per ton in 1993 which is equivalent to oil at $11.18 per barrel. Montaup intends to solicit bids from various suppliers of low sulfur content coal during the last three quarters of 1994. The 1993 year-end inventory of approximately 95,000 tons of high sulfur content coal will be reduced in order to facilitate the necessary changeover to all low sulfur content coal by December 31, 1994. Montaup also maintained an average inventory of jet oil of 3,397 barrels at an average cost per barrel of $26.28 during 1993 for its two peaking units at the Somerset Station.
Canal Electric Company (Canal), on behalf of itself, Montaup and others has contracts with a supplier for up to 100% of the fuel-oil requirements of Canal Unit Nos. 1 and 2 for the period ending April 30, 1995. The contracts permit up to 20% of fuel oil purchases in the spot market. For 1993, the cost of oil per barrel at Canal averaged $13.78. Canal and Montaup have entered into agreements with Algonquin Gas Transmission Company (Algonquin) for Algonquin to provide gas transmission facilities and services to the Canal facilities. The agreements are subject to (i) Algonquin obtaining the appropriate permits and authorization to construct and operate the transmission facilities and (ii) Canal and Montaup receiving the necessary permits and authorizations to construct natural gas fired electric generation equipment and the facilities to receive natural gas.
Montaup's costs of fossil and nuclear fuels for the years 1991 through 1993, together with the weighted average cost of all fuels, are set forth below:
Mills* per kWh ----------------------------------
1993 1992 1991
Nuclear . . . . . . . . . 7.5 7.7 8.7 Coal . . . . . . . . . 24.1 21.2 21.4 Oil . . . . . . . . . 25.5 26.0 18.9 Gas . . . . . . . . . 15.1 13.0 16.2 All fuels . . . . . . . . . 15.5 14.8 15.7
*One Mill is 1/10 of one cent
The rate schedules of Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries are designed to pass on to customers the increases and decreases in fuel costs and the cost of purchased power, subject to review and approval by appropriate regulatory authorities (see Rates below).
OSP has two gas supply contracts which expire December 14, 2009 and September 29, 2010, respectively for its two 250 MW generators. The cost of gas for 1993 averaged $1.15 per MBTU or approximately 9.7 mills per kWh generated.
The owners (or lead participants) of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest have made, or expect to make, various arrangements for the acquisition of uranium concentrate, the conversion, enrichment, fabrication and utilization of nuclear fuel and the disposition of that fuel after use. The owners (or lead participants) of United States nuclear units have entered into contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the NWPA. The NWPA requires (subject to various contingencies) that the federal government design, license, construct and operate a permanent repository for high level radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel and establish prescribed fees for the disposal of such wastes and fuel. The NWPA specifies that the DOE provide for the disposal of such waste and spent nuclear fuel starting in 1998. Objections on environmental and other grounds have been asserted against proposals for storage as well as disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE anticipates that a permanent disposal site for spent fuel will be ready to accept fuel for storage or disposal by the year 2010. However, the NRC, which must license the site, stated only that a repository will become available by the year 2025. Montaup owns a 4.01% interest in Millstone Unit 3 and a 2.9% interest in Seabrook Unit 1. Northeast Utilities, the operator of the units, indicates that Millstone Unit 3 has sufficient on-site storage facilities to accommodate high-level wastes and spent fuel for the projected life of the unit. Only minimal capital expenditures are projected for the foreseeable future. Similarly, at the Seabrook Project, there is on-site storage capacity which, with minimal capital expenditures, should be sufficient for twenty years or until the year 2010. No near-term capital expenditures are anticipated to accommodate an increase in storage requirements after 2010. The Energy Act requires that a fund be created for the decommissioning and decontamination of the DOE uranium enrichment facilities. The fund will be financed in part by special assessments on nuclear power plants in which Montaup has an interest. These assessments will be calculated based on the utilities' prior use of the government facilities. These special assessment have been levied by the DOE starting in September 1993 and will continue over 15 years. This cost is passed on to the joint owners or power buyers as an additional fuel charge on a monthly basis.
Nuclear Power Issues
General:
Nuclear generating facilities, including those in service in which Montaup participates, as shown in the table under Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply, are subject to extensive regulation by the NRC. The NRC is empowered to authorize the siting, construction and operation of nuclear reactors after consideration of public health, safety, environmental and anti-trust matters (see Yankee Atomic, below).
The NRC has promulgated numerous requirements affecting safety systems, fire protection, emergency response planning and notification systems, and other aspects of nuclear plant construction, equipment and operation. These requirements have caused modifications to be made at some of the nuclear units in which Montaup has an interest. Montaup has been affected, to the extent of its proportionate share, by the costs of such modifications.
Nuclear units in the United States have been subject to widespread criticism and opposition. Some nuclear projects have been cancelled following substantial construction delays and cost overruns as the result of licensing problems, unanticipated construction defects and other difficulties. Various groups have by litigation, legislation and participation in administrative proceedings sought to prohibit the completion and operation of nuclear units and the disposal of nuclear waste. In the event of cancellation or shutdown of any unit, NRC regulations require that it be completely decontaminated of any residual radioactivity. The cost of such decommissioning, depending on the circumstances, could substantially exceed the owners' investment at the time of cancellation.
The continuing public controversy concerning nuclear power could affect the operating units in which Montaup has an interest. While management cannot predict the ultimate effect of such controversy, it is possible that it could result in the premature shutdown of one or more of the units (see Yankee Atomic, below).
The Price-Anderson Act provides, among other things, that the liability for damages resulting from a nuclear incident would not exceed an amount which at present is about $9.2 billion. Under the Price-Anderson Act, prior to operation of a nuclear reactor, the licensee is required to insure against this exposure by purchasing the maximum amount of liability insurance available from private sources (currently $200 million) and to maintain the insurance available under a mandatory industry-wide retrospective rating program. Should an individual licensee's liability for an incident exceed $200 million, the difference between such liability and the overall maximum liability, currently about $9.2 billion, will be made up by the retrospective rating program. Under such a program, each owner of an operating nuclear facility may be assessed a retrospective premium of up to a limit of $79.3 million (which shall be adjusted for inflation at least every five years) for each reactor owned in the event of any one nuclear incident occurring at any reactor in the United States, with provision for payment of such assessment to be made over time as necessary to limit the payment in any one year to no more than $10 million per reactor owned. With respect to operating nuclear facilities of which it is a part owner or from which it contracts (on terms reflecting such liability) to purchase power, Montaup would be obligated to pay its proportionate share of any such assessment.
Joint owners of nuclear projects are also subject to the risk that one of their number may be unable or unwilling to finance its share of the project's costs, thus jeopardizing continuation of the project. On February 28, 1991, EUA Power (now know as Great Bay Power Corporation), a 12.1% owner of the Seabrook Project in which Montaup has a 2.9% ownership interest, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. The Great Bay Power Corporation Plan of Reorganization was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on March 5, 1993. On February 2, 1994, the Official Bondholders Committee of Great Bay Power Corporation announced that it accepted a plan of reorganization financing proposal from Omega Advisers, Inc. which provide for a $35 million equity investment in exchange for 60% of the equity of the reorganized Great Bay Power Corporation. Implementation of the Omega proposal will require modification of the plan of reorganization and approval from the Bankruptcy Court, the NRC, FERC and the NHPUC. Under the plan, as modified, the bondholders will receive 40% of the equity in the reorganized Great Bay Power Corporation in exchange for their bondholder claims.
On May 6, 1991, the New Hampshire Electric Cooperative, Inc. (NHEC), a 2.2% owner of the Seabrook Project, announced that it had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. A reorganization plan, filed by the NHEC with the Bankruptcy Court in September, 1991 and revised on January 14, 1992 was approved by the Bankruptcy Court in March 1992 and approved by the NHPUC on October 5, 1992. All appeals of the NHPUC order approving the reorganization plan have been resolved in NHEC's favor and the effective date of the plan occurred on December 1, 1993.
Decommissioning:
Each of the three operating nuclear generating companies in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest (see Item 2. PROPERTIES -- Power Supply) has developed its estimate of the cost of decommissioning its unit and has received the approval of FERC to include charges for the estimated costs of decommissioning its unit in the cost of energy which it sells. From time to time, these companies re-estimate the cost of decommissioning and apply to FERC for increased rates in response to increased decommissioning costs. Maine Yankee has filed a decommissioning financing plan under a Maine statute which requires the establishment of a decommissioning trust fund. That statute also provides that if the trust has insufficient funds to decommission the plant, the licensee (Maine Yankee) is responsible for the deficiency and, if the licensee is unable to provide the entire amount, the "owners" of the licensee are jointly and severally responsible for the remainder. The definition of "owner" under the statute includes Montaup and may include companies affiliated with Montaup. The applicability and effect of this statute cannot be determined at this time. Montaup would seek to recover through its rates any payments that might be required (see Yankee Atomic, below).
Montaup is recovering through rates its share of estimated decommissioning costs for Millstone Unit 3 and Seabrook Unit 1. Montaup's share of the current estimate of total costs to decommission Millstone Unit 3 is $15.1 million in 1993 dollars, and Seabrook Unit 1 is $10.6 million in 1993 dollars. These figures are based on studies performed for the lead owners of the plants. In addition, pursuant to contractual arrangements with other nuclear generating facilities in which Montaup has an equity ownership interest or life of the unit entitlement, Montaup pays into decommissioning reserves. Such expenses are currently recoverable through rates.
Yankee Atomic:
On February 26, 1992, Yankee Atomic announced that it would permanently cease power operation of Yankee Rowe and began preparing for an orderly decommissioning of the facility. Montaup has a 7.8 MW entitlement from the plant and has a 4.5% equity ownership in Yankee Atomic with a book value of approximately $1.1 million at December 31, 1993. Under the terms of its purchased power contract with the facility, Montaup must pay its proportionate share of unrecovered costs and expenses incurred after the plant is retired. In December 1992, Yankee Atomic received FERC authorization to recover essentially all costs related to the decommissioning of the plant.
Seabrook Unit 2:
Montaup has a 2.9% ownership interest in Seabrook Unit 2. On November 6, 1986, the joint owners of the Seabrook Project, recognizing that Seabrook Unit 2 had been cancelled in 1984, voted to dispose of Seabrook Unit 2. Plans regarding disposition of Seabrook Unit 2 are now under consideration, but have not been finalized and approved. Montaup is unable, therefore, to estimate the costs for which it would be responsible in connection with the disposition of Seabrook Unit 2. Monthly charges are required to be paid by Montaup with respect to Seabrook Unit 2 in order to preserve and protect its components and various warranties. Montaup recovered its investment in Seabrook Unit 2 under a FERC approved rate case settlement. As of December 31, 1993, Montaup had fully amortized its investment in Seabrook Unit 2.
Public Utility Regulation
Eastern Edison and Montaup are subject to regulation by the MDPU with respect to the issuance of securities, the form of accounts, and in the case of Eastern Edison, rates to be charged, services to be provided and other matters. Blackstone and Newport are subject to regulation in numerous respects by the RIPUC and the RIDPUC, including matters pertaining to financing, sales and transfers of utility properties, accounting, rates and service. In addition, by reason of its ownership of fractional interests in certain facilities located in other states, Montaup is subject to limited regulation in those states.
QFs, including those in which EUA Cogenex may have an interest, must satisfy the regulatory requirements of PURPA and are exempt from most state and federal laws regulating power generation. IPPs, including OSP in which EUA Ocean State has a 29.9% ownership interest, do not benefit from the PURPA exemptions and are subject to FERC regulation under the Federal Power Act as well as various other federal, state and local regulations.
The EUA System is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC under the 1935 Act by virtue of which the SEC has certain powers of regulation, including jurisdiction over the issuance of securities, changes in the terms of outstanding securities, acquisition or sale of securities or utility assets or other interests in any business, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions, payment of dividends under certain circumstances, and related matters. Eastern Edison is a holding company under the 1935 Act by reason of its ownership of securities of Montaup. As a subsidiary of EUA, a registered holding Company, Eastern Edison is exempted from registering as a holding company by complying with the applicable rules thereunder.
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup are also subject to the jurisdiction of FERC under Parts II and III of the Federal Power Act. That jurisdiction includes, among other things, rates for sales for resale, interconnection of certain facilities, accounts, service, and property records.
The MDPU and RIPUC have approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Eastern Edison, Blackstone, Newport and Montaup. The MOU establishes a framework for a coordinated, regional review of the resource planning and procurement process of those companies. It is based on the assumption that resource planning and procurement by a regional electric company may be implemented more effectively under a coordinated, consensual review process involving the EUA Retail companies and the state public utility commissions to which the EUA retail companies are subject. Pursuant to the terms of the MOU, at least every two years Montaup and each EUA Retail subsidiary will file a integrated resource plan concurrently with the MDPU and RIPUC. The MOU outlines a mechanism and a timetable by which the reviews by the two commissions will be coordinated and any inconsistencies among the decisions by the state commissions will be resolved.
In conjunction with its approval of the MOU, the MDPU granted Eastern Edison and Montaup an exemption from the MDPU's Integrated Resource Management regulations, but required them to plan, solicit and procure additional resources according to newly promulgated regional Integrated Regional Planning procedures consistent with the MOU. The Integrated Resource Management Plan of Blackstone and Newport meet the criteria of the RIPUC.
Implementation of the MOU is not expected to have a material effect on the EUA System.
See Rates with respect to regulation of rates charged to customers. See Environmental Regulation. See Fuel for Generation with respect to the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. See Environmental Regulation of Nuclear Power and see Nuclear Power Issues with respect to regulation of nuclear facilities by the NRC. See also Energy Policy.
Rates
Rates charged by Montaup (which sells power only for resale) are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. The rates for services rendered by the Retail Subsidiaries for the most part are subject to approval by and are on file with the MDPU in the case of Eastern Edison and with the RIPUC in the case of Blackstone and Newport. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1993, 61% of EUA's consolidated revenues were subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, 12% to that of the MDPU and 15% to that of the RIPUC. The remaining 12% of consolidated revenues are not subject to jurisdiction of the respective utility commissions. Additionally, rates charged by OSP are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. All OSP (Unit 1 and Unit 2) power contracts have been approved by FERC. However, pursuant to the OSP unit power agreements, rate supplements are required to be filed annually subject to FERC approval. This process may result in rate increases or decreases to OSP power purchasers.
Recent general rate increases for Montaup and the Retail Subsidiaries are as follows (thousands of dollars):
_____________________ Notes:
(1) Montaup's rate increases were implemented on a subject to refund basis. (2) Per final FERC order or settlement agreement. (3) Reduced from $16,401 as originally filed. (4) Rate used for AFUDC calculation purposes. Settlement contains no specific finding on allowed common equity return. Rates approved for consumption of electricity on and after January 1, 1993. (5) Reduced from $6,027 as originally filed. (6) The new rate applied to meter readings taken 30 days after the date of the order. (7) RIPUC Docket No. 2045 was a generic docket for all Rhode Island Utilities reviewing FAS106 expenses. The effective amount represents the revenue requirement for one-third of the tax deductible amount of the FAS106 expense (see Rhode Island Proceedings below). As this was a single issue proceeding, the RIPUC made no revisions to the allowed return on common equity. (8) Phase II of Docket 2036 incorporated by reference into Docket 2045.
FERC Proceedings:
On March 5, 1990, Montaup filed its M-12 rate request based on a forward-looking test year beginning May 1, 1990. The requested annual increase of $20.5 million primarily reflected the increased operation and maintenance expenses and full rate base treatment of Seabrook Unit 1. The application included a request to add approximately $124.4 million of Seabrook Unit 1 construction costs to Montaup's rate base in addition to the $74.6 million of Seabrook Unit 1 construction work in progress previously allowed in rate base. The annual increase also included $7 million for the implementation of conservation and load management programs in the service territories of Montaup's affiliated companies. On April 25, 1990, FERC authorized the implementation of the rate increase, subject to refund, effective with the commercial operation of Seabrook Unit 1. On May 22, 1990 a FERC administrative law judge issued an order to separate the M-12 request into two phases. Phase I was to address all cost of service issues other than Seabrook Unit 1 prudency concerns, and Phase II would address the Seabrook Unit 1 prudency issues. On August 19, 1990, commercial operation of Seabrook Unit 1 was declared and the M-12 rate was made effective, subject to refund. On October 22, 1990, Montaup filed a settlement agreement with FERC with respect to Phase I, reducing the originally filed rate by $500,000. The Phase I settlement agreement was approved by FERC on January 23, 1991.
On December 6, 1991, the FERC administrative law judge presiding over Phase II of Montaup's M-12 rate case proceeding issued an initial decision finding that Montaup had been prudent in its oversight of its Seabrook Unit 1 investment with respect to emergency planning and recommended no prudency disallowance. Exceptions to the initial decision were filed by the intervening parties. The FERC's Order with respect to Phase II was issued on August 4, 1992 and affirmed the FERC administrative law judge's initial decision, thus allowing Montaup to recover and earn a return on its full investment in Seabrook Unit 1 through rates.
On December 3, 1991, FERC approved a settlement agreement between Montaup and the intervenors in Montaup's March 1991 wholesale rate increase request (M-13). Montaup had filed for an annual increase of $10.5 million and FERC allowed implementation of the new rate commencing May 7, 1991 subject to refund pending final adjudication. The approved settlement agreement called for an annual increase of $8.1 million. Montaup refunded the difference collected to its wholesale electric utility customers in December 1991 billings.
After the acquisition of Newport, Montaup and Newport had instituted a 90/10 allocation of the energy savings which the two companies realize through their treatment as a single entity in NEPOOL in recognition of the difference in the size of each company. On December 20, 1991, after discussions with the staff of FERC and in compliance with its position, Montaup and Newport filed with FERC an application to have a proposed 50/50 allocation of their energy savings approved. Protests and motions to intervene opposing the filing and seeking a larger allocation of the savings to Montaup were filed with the FERC in January 1992 by the MDPU, the Attorney General of Massachusetts and Montaup's non-affiliated customers. On May 19, 1992 FERC approved the 50/50 allocation method as appropriate and accepted the revised energy savings agreement for filing. However, the agreement incorrectly defined the calculations necessary to compute a shared savings rate. Montaup and Newport were directed to file a revised shared savings formula. On June 1, 1992 Montaup and Newport filed a rate schedule revision and Montaup M-Rate fuel clause revisions in compliance with the FERC's order.
On December 17, 1992, FERC issued a Statement of Policy regarding the recovery through rates of the cost of post-employment benefits other than pensions (PBOP), as a result of FAS106 issued to address accounting procedures for these costs. The FERC's policy recognizes allowances for prudently incurred costs of such benefits of company employees when determined on an accrual basis that is consistent with the accounting principles set forth in FAS106. Furthermore, companies must agree to make cash deposits to an irrevocable external trust fund equal to the annual test period allowance for the cost of such benefits and they must maximize the use of income tax deductions for contributions to the trust fund. If tax deductions are not available for some portion of currently funded amounts, deferred income tax accounting must be followed for the tax effects of such transactions.
Within three years of their adoption of FAS106, FERC regulated companies must also file a general rate change and seek inclusion of these costs in their rates. Companies may defer the jurisdictional portion of the difference between the costs determined pursuant to accounting principles previously followed and FAS106 accruals from the time they adopt FAS106 until they file the general rate case described above. Montaup deferred its incremental FAS106 expenses of approximately $1.4 million for 1993, and will file for recovery of such amounts in its 1994 rate application.
On March 21, 1994 Montaup filed a rate application with the FERC to reduce annual revenues by $10.1 million. This request is intended to match more closely Montaup's revenues with its decreasing cost of doing business resulting from, among other things, a reduced rate base, lower capital costs and successful cost control efforts. The application also includes a request for recovery of all of Montaup's FAS106 expenses as provided in FERC's generic order of December 1992. Also incorporated in this filing is a request to make Newport an all requirements customer of Montaup. Currently Newport purchases approximately 47% of its power requirements from suppliers other than Montaup. If approved Montaup would assume all purchased power contracts of Newport and subsequently provide Newport with 100% of its power needs. FERC can approve Montaup's requested reduction to take effect as early as May 21, 1994 pending final adjudication and approval. A final decision on this application is expected during second half of 1994.
Massachusetts Proceedings:
On December 31, 1992, the MDPU issued its order in response to a $14.9 million (reduced from the originally filed $16.4 million) rate increase request of Eastern Edison. The $8.1 million rate relief granted represented 49% of Eastern Edison's original rate request filed on June 15, 1992 based on a 1991 test year. The new rates filed in compliance with the order became effective for sales subsequent to January 1, 1993.
In authorizing the increase, the MDPU accepted a settlement proposal offered jointly by Eastern Edison and the Massachusetts Attorney General, the sole intervenor. The settlement stipulated the total revenue requirement which included an amortization of Hurricane Bob costs over a five-year period without a return on the unamortized amount. The settlement also reflects the recovery of the full tax deductible amount of post-retirement benefits other than pensions (FAS106 expenses), without any phasing-in of the increase over the current ("pay-as-you-go") level. All FAS106 amounts recovered are required to be placed in trusts permitted by the IRS which will maximize tax deductibility and provide tax-free benefits to retirees. The depreciation rate and the common equity component of AFUDC were also specified. The composite rate for the depreciation calculation was set at 4.13%, up slightly from the 4.07% previously authorized. Solely for the purpose of calculating AFUDC, the common equity return component was set at 11.5%.
In a recently decided rate case, the MDPU put all companies on notice that it expects them..."to consider mergers or acquisitions in order to further optimize least-cost planning efforts and better fulfill their obligations to serve." Thereafter, the MDPU instituted an investigation, which is now underway, for the purpose of establishing, among other things, guidelines and standards for acquisitions and mergers of utilities and evaluating proposals regarding the recovery of costs associated with such activities. It is not possible to predict what effects, if any, the MDPU proceeding will have on the EUA System.
Rhode Island Proceedings:
On June 17, 1991, Blackstone filed with the RIPUC a request for increased annual revenues of approximately $6 million or 5.0%. Subsequently, Blackstone reduced this request to $5.1 million or 4.2%. On March 16, 1992 the RIPUC issuedits order granting Blackstone rate relief of $3.0 million or 58% of the requested amount. The order included an allowed return on common equity of 11.43%.
On December 27, 1991, Newport filed an application with the RIPUC for a total rate increase of $7.3 million, to take effect in two steps. Phase I would increase annual revenues by $6.1 million and is related to increases in Newport's cost of service and a decline in kWh sales. In Phase II, Newport proposed toincrease rates by an additional $1.3 million, to take effect in January 1993, when Newport was required to adopt FAS106. On September 28, 1992 the RIPUC issued its order granting Newport rate relief of $3.7 million or 60% of the requested Phase I amount.
In authorizing the Phase I increase, the RIPUC accepted a conditional offer of settlement filed jointly by Newport and the RIDPUC. The settlement consisted of three separate stipulated agreements which applied to revenue requirements, rate class revenue requirements, and rate design. Other intervening parties agreed to some but not all of these stipulations. The order included an allowed return on common equity of 11.4% for annualized earnings and for AFUDC. The order also called for the elimination of an accrued deficit in Newport's storm contingency fund of approximately $1.2 million. The deficit in the storm contingency fund was the result of excessive damages incurred as a result of Hurricane Bob. The damages from Hurricane Bob far exceeded amounts set aside for such purposes. The RIPUC ordered the elimination of this deficit on the grounds that it was deemed to be equivalent to the value of the OSP transfer and should be attributed to ratepayers. Newport Electric Power Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Newport, transferred its right of ownership in the Ocean State Power Project on December 31, 1990 to an EUA wholly owned subsidiary, EUA Ocean State. It did so because neither it, nor its parent (Newport) could raise the $11 million an equity contribution required at the time of the completion of the Ocean State Power Project. On October 2, 1992, Newport filed an appeal with the Rhode Island supreme court for reversal of the RIPUC directive to write off the storm contingency deficit. On May 26, 1993, the Rhode Island supreme court overturned the ruling by the RIPUC. The Phase I rate increase granted of $3.7 million was not affected by the Supreme Court decision.
On April 7, 1992, the RIPUC initiated generic Docket No. 2045 pertaining to the FAS106 issue for all Rhode Island utility companies. On June 26, 1992 Newport and Blackstone filed proposed rate increases to reflect the impact of FAS106 of approximately $1.3 million and $2.7 million respectively. Phase II of Docket No. 2036, discussed above, was incorporated by reference. An order was issued on December 11, 1992 granting recovery of a tax deductible amount of FAS106 phased into rates over a three-year period with the initial one-third to be recovered no earlier than the first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 1992, and the deferrals of the first two years recovered in rates over the seven-year period following the three-year phase-in. On December 21, 1992, Newport and Blackstone filed compliance rates representing phase one of the three-year phase-in. The Phase I revenue requirement representing one third of the incremental FAS106 tax deductible amount for Blackstone and Newport were calculated to be $353,000 and $417,000 respectively. Phase II compliance was filed November 1, 1993. The revenue requirement representing two thirds of the incremental FAS106 tax deductible expense for Blackstone and Newport were calculated to be $706,000 and $834,000 respectively. The RIPUC also ordered that all amounts recovered be placed in trusts permitted by the IRS which will maximize tax deductibility. In 1993, total FAS106 expenses for Blackstone and Newport were approximately $2.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively.
On October 22, 1992, the RIPUC issued Order No. 14060 which established Docket No. 2073 to review design of Blackstone's rates. In compliance with the RIPUC's Order, Blackstone filed testimony on December 9, 1992 in support of a proposed rate class redesign. After a hearing held by the RIPUC on Blackstone's proposals, a stipulation and settlement agreement was signed by all parties to the proceeding which reallocated Blackstone's existing revenue requirements among the rate classes. In Order No 14209 which became effective on May 6, 1993, the RIPUC accepted the stipulation and settlement without modification.
Also, on January 14, 1994, the RIPUC issued a written order establishing Docket No. 2167 for a Comprehensive Review of Newport's rate design. A prehearing conference was held on February 8, 1994 at which time a schedule for pre-filing testimony was established.
Environmental Regulation
General:
The Retail Subsidiaries and Montaup and other companies owning generating units from which power is obtained are subject, like other electric utilities, to environmental and land use regulations at the federal, state and local levels. The EPA, and certain state and local authorities, have jurisdiction over releases of pollutants, contaminants and hazardous substances into the environment and have broad authority in connection therewith including the ability to require installation of pollution control devices and remedial actions.
Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island legislation requires consideration of reports evaluating environmental impact as a prerequisite to the granting of various permits and licenses with a view of limiting such impact. Federal, Massachusetts and Rhode Island air quality regulations also require that plans (including procedures for operation and maintenance) for construction or modification of fossil fuel generating facilities receive prior approval from the DEP or RIDEM. In addition, in Massachusetts, certain electric generation and transmission facilities will be permitted to be built only if they are consistent with a long-range forecast filed by the utility concerned and approved by the Massachusetts Energy Facilities Siting Board. In Rhode Island, siting, construction and modification of major electric generating and transmission facilities must be approved by the Rhode Island Energy Facility Siting Board and the Rhode Island Coastal Resource Management Council.
Generating facilities in which Montaup and Newport have an interest, and are required to pay a share of the costs, are also subject, like other electric utilities, to regulation with regard to zoning, land use, and similar controls by various state and local authorities.
The EPA and state and local authorities may, after appropriate proceedings, require modification of generating facilities for which construction permits or operating licenses have already been issued, or impose new conditions on such permits or licenses, and may require that the operation of a generating unit cease or that its level of operation be temporarily or permanently reduced. Such action may result in increases in capital costs and operating costs which may be substantial, in delays or cancellation of construction of planned facilities, or in modification or termination of operations of existing facilities.
Other activities of the EUA System from time to time are subject to the jurisdiction of various other local, state and federal regulatory agencies. It is not possible to predict with certainty what effects the above described statutes and regulations will have on the EUA System.
The EPA has issued regulations relating to the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of certain wastes under RCRA; in Massachusetts, the requirements are implemented and enforced by the DEP, whereas in Rhode Island, RIDEM implements and enforces its own regulations under a state statute comparable to RCRA as well as pursuant to EPA authorization.
There is an extensive body of federal and state statutes governing environmental matters, including CERCLA, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 and, in Massachusetts, Chapter 21E, which permit, among other things, federal and state authorities to initiate legal action providing for liability, compensation, cleanup, and emergency response to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment and for the cleanup of inactive hazardous waste disposal sites which constitute substantial hazards. Under CERCLA and Chapter 21E, joint and several liability for cleanup costs may be imposed on, among others, the owners or operators of a facility where hazardous substances were disposed, the party who generated the substances, or any party who arranged for the disposition or transport of the substances. Due to the nature of the business of EUA's utility subsidiaries, certain materials are generated that may be classified as hazardous under CERCLA and Chapter 21E. As a rule, the subsidiaries employ licensed contractors to dispose of such materials. See Item 3.