Item 2. Description of Property
The proved developed and proved undeveloped oil and gas reserve figures presented in this report are estimates based on reserve reports prepared by independent petroleum engineers. The estimation of reserves requires substantial judgment on the part of the petroleum engineers, resulting in imprecise determinations, particularly with respect to new discoveries. Estimates of reserves and of future net revenues prepared by different petroleum engineers may vary substantially, depending, in part, on the assumptions made, and may be subject to material adjustment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves, which comprise a substantial portion of the Company's reserves, are, by their nature, much less certain than proved developed reserves. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data as well as engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of drilling, testing and production or price changes subsequent to the date of the estimate may result in changes to such estimates. The estimates of future net revenues in this report reflect oil and gas prices and production costs as of the date of estimation, without escalation, except where changes in prices were fixed under existing contracts. There can be no assurance that such prices will be realized or that the estimated production volumes will be produced during the periods specified in such reports. At December 31, 1997, the price of West Texas Sweet Intermediate Crude (a benchmark crude), was $15.50 per barrel and the comparable price at March 31, 1998 was $13.25per barrel. Quotations for the comparable periods for natural gas were $2.45 per Mcf and $2.20 per Mcf, respectively. The estimated reserves and future net revenues may be subject to material downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. A material decrease in estimated reserves or future net revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations.
Principal Properties
The Company's properties are located in three primary regions: United States, Colombia, and Canada. The following describes the principal properties of the Company at December 31, 1997.
United States Properties
California
The Company operates all of its wells in the Central Coast Fields and maintains an average working interest in these wells of 98.8% and an average net revenue interest of 89.4%. These fields produced 1,808 net BOEPD for the year ended December 31, 1997, and had proved reserves at December 31, 1997 of 5.9 MMBOE. The Company's 1998 operations may include recompletions of up to 32 existing vertical wells and reactivation of up to 15 existing shut-in vertical wells.
Cat Canyon Field. The Cat Canyon Field is the Company's principal producing property, representing approximately 8.7% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997. This field, which covers approximately 1,775 acres of land is located in northern Santa Barbara County and was acquired by the Company in 1993. At the time of acquisition, there were 89 producing wells and 74 suspended wells, all of which were vertically drilled to either the Sisquoc or Monterey Formations (lying between approximately 2,400 feet and 3,400 feet and 4,000 feet and 6,600 feet, respectively). At the time of acquisition, average production was 425 Bopd and during the month of December 1997, average production was approximately 1,243 Bopd. Daily production varies depending upon various factors, including normal decline in production levels, the production of newly drilled wells and whether remedial work is being done on wells in the field. The field produces a heavy grade of viscous oil, which is in demand at the Company's Santa Maria refinery. The property is considered (as are many heavy oil properties) a high production cost field and reductions in prices paid for crude generally affect such properties more dramatically than higher gravity lower production cost fields.
The Company owns a 100% working interest and a 99.7% net revenue interest in approximately 45 producing wells and a number of non-producing wells located in this field which consists of two major producing horizons, the Sisquoc and the Monterey. The Sisquoc formation, which consists of a number of separate zones, is divided by two major north-south trending faults into three separate and distinct areas. The area between the faults contains the bulk of the productive reservoir volume and has the highest cumulative production. A portion of that area was the subject of a waterflood instituted in 1962 by a previous operator. The waterflood was not economically successful. The Company believes that the two faults are sealing faults, thus preventing communication with the portions of the field lying outside of the fault block, which areas were not the subject of waterflood operations.
In 1995, the Company drilled its first horizontal well into the Monterey formation; this well has experienced mechanical difficulties and is currently not on production pending completion of a study designed to remedy the problem. In 1996, the Company initiated its present horizontal well drilling program in the Cat Canyon Field by drilling five horizontal wells into the Sisquoc formation S1b sand (which is one of the multiple separate sand bodies comprising the Sisquoc formation). Of the five wells, three were drilled in the central fault block, on which a waterflood operation was previously conducted, and one in each of the eastern and western portions of the field. The well in the western portion of the field initially produced at rates approaching 400 Bopd and, as expected, has declined to a present rate of approximately 130 Bopd. Wells drilled into the Sisquoc formation may be expected to produce varying amounts of formation water as part of the production process. The well drilled in the eastern portion of the field has suffered mechanical problems and plans are to rework the well during 1998. The three wells drilled in the central portion, or waterflood area of the field, developed initial production rates of approximately 150 Bopd per well and have declined to approximately 40 Bopd per well. In 1997, the Company continued its horizontal well drilling program in the Cat Canyon Field by drilling eight additional wells into the Sisquoc S1b sand. Of the eight wells, five were drilled in the waterflood area and the remaining three were drilled in other areas. Year-end average production rates for the wells in the waterflood area were 82 Bopd and 1,100 barrels of water per day per well. Production rates for the other wells were 88 Bopd and 13 barrels of water per day, per well. The wells drilled into the central waterflood area, as expected, are producing oil with high volumes of residual water from the prior waterflood operations. The Company believes that by using high volume pumps and lifting large volumes of fluid, the ratio of oil to total fluids produced will gradually increase. The Company expects continued improvement in the ratio of oil to total fluid. Production declines have been in line with the Company's expectations of roughly a forty to fifty percent decline in production during the first twelve months of a well's operation, followed by a more moderate ten percent annual decline in production.
Results from the horizontal well drilling program have not met the Company's expectations and continuing study is being given to the field to determine how to maximize production. In addition, the Company has implemented measures designed to ensure that operations are conducted with greater efficiency than was the case during 1997. The Company plans to drill at least two horizontal wells in this field during 1998, the locations for which will probably be outside of the waterflood area of the central fault block. As many as four additional wells may be drilled, depending upon results from existing wells and product prices. Horizontal wells in the field generally have a horizontal extension of 1,500 to 2,000 feet and cost approximately $550,000 as a completed well.
In addition to the Cat Canyon Field, the Company has interests in a number of fields in California, none of which had a PV-10 Value equal to five percent or more of the PV-10 Value of the Company's proved reserves at December 31, 1997. Among such fields are the following:
Gato Ridge Field. The Gato Ridge Field, which represented approximately 0.7% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997, is located in the Santa Maria Basin adjacent to the Cat Canyon Field and covers approximately 405 acres. The Company owns a 100% working interest and net revenue interests ranging from 86% to 100% in seven producing wells in the Gato Ridge Field. The existing vertical wells primarily produce a heavy oil (11(Degree)) from the same formations as those underlying the Cat Canyon Field. In 1997, the Company drilled a pair of SAGD wells, to the Sisquoc formation at a total cost of $1.8 million, including related surface equipment. In addition, two horizontal wells were drilled to a different zone in the Sisquoc formation, at an average cost of $537,000, both of which experienced sand intrusion problems. One well initially produced at a rate of 300 Bopd before sand infiltrated the well bore necessitating a reduction in production levels to approximately 20 Bopd. Operations on the other well have been suspended. The Company is of the view that it will be able to rectify the sand intrusion in these wells and establish the wells as commercial producers. The pair of SAGD wells drilled on this property during 1997 have been completed and the initiation of steaming operations is awaiting the issuance of county permits and a recovery in oil prices. At such time steam will be injected into the upper well and thereafter production will commence from the lower well. Should this procedure prove economically successful, the Company plans to initiate other SAGD projects on its Santa Maria properties.
Richfield East Dome Unit (REDU). The REDU unit, which represents approximately 2.4% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997, is located in Orange County, California and covers approximately 420 acres. The Company is the operator of this unit and owns a working interest of 50.6% and a net revenue interest of 40.8%. The unit is under waterflood in the Kraemer and Chapman formations and contains approximately 68 producing wells, 39 shut-in wells and 54 water injection wells. The Company conducted remedial operations on this property during 1997 which resulted in increasing production approximately 100 Bopd. The Company plans to conduct remedial operations in 1998 on this property at an estimated cost to the Company's interest of approximately $600,000. The Company owns fee interests in lands in this unit which it believes will be developable for real estate purposes as oil operations are curtailed.
Other. The Company also owns other producing properties located in Santa Barbara, Ventura, Solano, Kern and Orange Counties, California, which in the aggregate represented approximately 5.1% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997.
Louisiana
Potash Field, which represents 13.4% of the Company's PV-10 value as of December 31, 1997, is located in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana. The Company operates all of the wells in the field. The field is a salt dome feature originally discovered by Humble Oil and Refining Company and covers approximately 3,600 acres. The field is located in a shallow marine environment southeast of New Orleans. The Company, in September 1997 acquired an 80% working interest (67% net revenue interest) in this property. Subsequent to year end 1997 the Company acquired the remaining 20% working interest. Current production from the field is approximately 375 Bopd and 4.0 MMcfd of high BTU content gas. The Company believes that remedial work on several of the wells will result in increased production levels. The salt dome feature in the field has not been fully explored. The Company plans on conducting a 3-D seismic survey to delineate the field. Production in this field is from multipay zones; the deepest of which is 15,000 feet.
Manila Village is located in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana. The Company operates this field and at December 31, 1997, owned a 40.5% working interest (28% net revenue interest).. The field represented approximately 1.8% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997. The field covers approximately 450 gross acres of land covered by shallow waters. Subsequent to year end 1997 the Company acquired an additional 10.2% working interest. The Company is participating in a 3-D seismic program which includes the field and expects that the results of the survey will provide a basis for additional enhancements to the value of the property, including recompletions, reworks and equipment installations.
Other United States Properties
In addition to its California and Louisiana properties, the Company owns producing properties in a number of states, primarily, New Mexico, Michigan, Texas and Oklahoma, which collectively represented approximately 11.3% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997. At such date, these properties had proved reserves of 2.7 MMBOE. Included in such other producing properties are:
Southwest Tatum Field, which represents 2.2% of the Company's PV-10 value, is located in Lea County, New Mexico. The property was acquired by the Company as an exploratory project in late 1996. The Company holds leases covering approximately 2,000 gross acres of land, in which the Company has a working interest of 50% and a net revenue interest of 38.75%. During the last part of 1996, the Company, as operator, commenced the drilling of a 14,000 foot exploratory Devonian test well. In addition to the deepest zone, the Devonian (which has been abandoned after having produced in excess of 20,000 barrels of high gravity oil), the well has three other potential oil producing zones. The Company has recompleted the well in the shallower Cisco zone with initial flow rates of 400 Bopd of clean 45(Degree) oil, 450 Mcfd with no water. A second reentry well to test the shallower zones was completed in September, 1997 as a Canyon producer and is currently pumping approximately 175 Bopd and 140 Mcfd, with a small amount of water. Two additional wells are planned to be drilled on this property in 1998 at an approximate cost of $350,000 each to the Company's interest. A gas sales line was completed in February 1998, allowing for gas sales from the two wells.
San Simon Ranch Field, which represents 1.4% of the PV-10 value, is located in Lea County, New Mexico. The Company owns interests in several wells in this field and operates three wells. The Company has a 50% working (42%) net revenue interest in approximately 1,122 gross (742 net) acres in the field. The Company is participating in a 3-D seismic survey to evaluate the development of the field.
Colombian Properties
General
The Company's Colombian operations are conducted on two Association Areas and one mineral fee property. These properties are located in the Middle Magdalena Basin of Colombia, some 130 miles northwest of Bogota. The Company and its partner, Omimex, acquired their interests in the Middle Magdalena Basin properties from Texaco in 1994 and 1995 transactions; each has a 25% working (20% net revenue) interest in Nare and Cocorna Association properties, while Ecopetrol, the Colombian state oil company owns the remaining 50% working interest. The mineral fee property, Velasquez, is owned 75% by Omimex and 25% by the Company. The three areas cover 52,894 gross acres of land. The Nare Association is the northernmost area in which the Company has an interest and covers approximately 37,164 gross (approximately 9,300 net) acres of land. The exploitation and development of the Teca and Nare Fields, and the adjacent Nare North, Chicala and Moriche Fields are governed by the association contract originally entered into between Ecopetrol and Texaco in 1980. Under these contracts, the cost of exploratory wells is borne solely by the Company and its partner, who are entitled to all revenues from such wells. Once an area within an Association is declared to be a commercial area by Ecopetrol, the Company and its partner each receives 20% of the crude oil produced at these fields, while Ecopetrol receives 40% of production and the Colombian government receives the remaining 20% of production in the form of royalties. A commercial area is roughly equivalent to a field. Each of the Company and its partner bears 25% of the production costs of commercial areas and Ecopetrol is responsible for the remaining 50%. The exploitation rights under these contracts expire in September 2008 and are not renewable by the Company under their current terms. The Company understands that legislation is being considered by the Colombian government which would permit such extensions to be obtained. The Company intends to seek an extension of these contracts, however, no assurance can be given that any extension will be granted or that the terms on which any extension may be obtained will be acceptable to the Company. See "Description of Business-Economic and Political Risks of Foreign Operations-Colombian Operations."
Generally, as in the case of the Company's interests under the Nare and Cocorna Associations, the Articles require that the contracting oil company perform various work obligations (including the drilling of any exploratory wells) at its cost on the lands covered by the Articles, and allow production of hydrocarbons for a stated terms of years. Upon discovery of a field capable of commercial production and upon commencement of production from that field, Ecopetrol reimburses the contracting party out of Ecopetrol's share of production for 50% of the allowable costs. Thereafter, costs of operations and working interest revenues are shared 50% by Ecopetrol and 50% by Omimex and the Company. The working interest is subject to a royalty of 20% which is paid to Ecopetrol on behalf of the Colombian government. Several of the fields in the contract area owned by the Company and Omimex have been declared to be commercial areas, but a number of other areas have not yet been so designated. Approval of both Ecopetrol and the Ministry of the Environment is required to implement a development program. One field located within the Cocorna Concession area, which was acquired by the Company from Texaco, reverted to Ecopetrol in 1997.
Description of the Properties
Both the Nare and Cocorna Associations will expire in September 2008. At the date hereof, three fields within the Cocorna Association have been declared commercial by Ecopetrol: Teca (approximately 1,938 acres), Toche (approximately 150 acres), and South Cocorna (approximately 700 acres); and four fields within the Nare Association have been declared commercial: South Nare (approximately 660 acres), North Nare (approximately 1,700 acres), Chicala (approximately 830 acres) and Moriche (approximately 1,085 acres). The Company's Teca and South Nare Fields, which represented approximately 22.6% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997, produced an average of 1.87 Mbopd for the year ended December 31, 1997, from 309 wells covering 2,598 gross (649.5 net) developed acres and is the primary producing area. The Company owns a 25% mineral fee interest in the Velasquez Field which covers approximately 3,800 gross (950 net) acres of land, and produced an average 505 Bopd for the year ended December 31, 1997.
The Company's Colombian properties in the aggregate represented 12.6 MMBbls of proved reserves at December 31, 1997 or approximately 43.1% of the Company's total proved reserves and approximately 48.2% of the Company's PV-10 Value at that date. The following table provides information concerning the Company's interest in the commercial areas and fee minerals in Colombia.
Production from all of the fields comes from relatively shallow reservoirs lying at approximate depths of from 1,200 to 3,000 feet. All of the production (save that produced from the Velasquez field) is of a relatively heavy grade of crude oil, generally in the area of 10(Degree) to 13(Degree) gravity API. Wells generally produce small amounts of formation water in conjunction with oil. Because of the viscosity of the oil, wells are initially produced without artificial stimulation and thereafter stimulated by cyclic steam injection. Wells cost approximately $250,000 to $300,000 to the total working interest, depending upon depth.
During 1997, the Company and the operator participated in the drilling of thirteen wells in the Teca (eight) and South Nare (five) Fields. All of the wells drilled were productive and the operator is in the process of installing steaming equipment. A plan has been formulated for the drilling of approximately 200 development wells in the Teca, Nare, Nare North, and two other fields. This program, subject to regulatory approval, would be implemented through the year 2001.
The Company and Omimex also reentered a suspended Texaco drilled well to an area under the Magdalena River and recompleted the well at approximately 30 Bopd without artificial stimulation. Both the Company and the operator believe that another two wells should be drilled into the area in an effort to establish an additional commercial area. Should those efforts be successful, it is believed that from 15 to 20 additional drilling locations would be established. In the Velasquez Field, the Company and Omimex recompleted three wells in a behind pipe zone. Initial per well production rates ranged from 142 Bopd to 223 Bopd. Studies to date indicate up to 23 additional wells with behind pipe reserves suitable for re-completion. For 1998, the Company has budgeted approximately $2.5 million for its Colombian operations capital expenditures, but the expenditure will depend upon the price of oil and other economic factors.
Crude Oil Sales and Pipeline Ownership
All of the Company's crude oil produced at the Company's properties in Colombia has been sold exclusively to Ecopetrol at negotiated prices. See "Description of Business - Marketing of Production." In conjunction with its purchase of interests in the Nare Association, the Company also purchased a 50% interest in the 118 mile Velasquez-Galan Pipeline, which connects the Fields to the 250,000 Bopd Colombian government-owned refinery at Barrancabermeja. The pipeline transports oil from the Company's fields, together with a lighter crude oil supplied by Ecopetrol which acts as a diluent to the Company's heavier crude, and crude oil from other adjacent fields. The pipeline generates revenues through collection of tariffs for the use of the pipeline. Throughput on this pipeline in December 1997 averaged 30,500 Bopd of which the Company's share was approximately 2,300 Bopd. In addition to the operator and the Company, three other companies transport their crude oil through the pipeline at tariff rates established by Colombian authorities. The Company and the operator have considered expansion of the pipeline system if additional production is developed by operators in the area. A new oil field is being developed south of the Company's properties. The operator of the new oil field has approached the Company and Omimex requesting the transport of oil from the new field through the Velasquez-Galan Pipeline.
Canadian Properties
The Company's Canadian properties, which are owned through Beaver Lake, represented approximately 8.5% of the Company's PV-10 Value at December 31, 1997. The Canadian properties produced an average of 608 BOEPD for the year ended December 31, 1997 from 142 wells covering 56,800 gross (14,972 net) developed acres, most of which are located in the province of Alberta. Proved reserves attributable to the Canadian properties totaled 2.6 MMBOE at December 31, 1997. Two development wells were drilled during 1997, one completed as a gas well, the other was a dry hole. A horizontal well was also drilled on which operations have been suspended. The information presented has not been adjusted for the approximate 26% minority interest in Beaver Lake held by others.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The Company's proved reserves and PV-10 Value from proved developed and proved undeveloped oil and gas properties have been estimated by the following independent petroleum engineers: In 1997 and 1996, Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. prepared reports on the Company's reserves in the United States and Colombia and Sproule Associates Limited prepared a report on the Company's Canadian reserves. The estimates of these independent petroleum engineers were based upon review of production histories and other geological, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company. In accordance with SEC guidelines, the Company's estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. Future net revenues at December 31, 1997 reflect a weighted average price of $13.13 per BOE compared to $17.05 per BOE at December 31, 1996. There have been no reserve estimates filed with any United States federal authority or agency, except that the Company participates in a Department of Energy annual survey, which includes furnishing reserve estimates of certain of the Company's properties. The estimates furnished are identical to those included herein with respect to the properties covered by the survey.
The following tables present total proved developed and proved undeveloped reserve volumes as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and estimates of the future net revenues and PV-10 Value therefrom. There can be no assurance that these estimates are accurate predictions of future net revenues from oil and gas reserves or their present value. Pursuant to industry standards, the Company's proved reserves include all of the proved reserves of Beaver Lake.
Estimated Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The estimated future net revenues (using current prices and costs at the respective years end) and the present value of future net revenues (using a discount factor of 10 percent per annum) before income taxes for Saba's proved developed and proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:
"Proved developed" oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered from existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. "Proved undeveloped" oil and gas reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. In recent years, the market for oil and gas has experienced substantial fluctuations, which have resulted in significant swings in the prices for oil and gas. The Company cannot predict the future of oil and gas prices or whether future declines in prices will occur. Any such decline would have an adverse effect on the Company. Estimates of proved reserves may vary from year to year reflecting changes in the price of oil and gas and results of drilling activities during the intervening period. Reserves previously classified as proved undeveloped may be completely removed from the proved reserves classification in a subsequent year as a consequence of negative results from additional drilling or product price declines which make such undeveloped reserves non-economic to develop. Conversely, successful development and/or increase s in product prices may result in additions to proved undeveloped reserves.
Net Quantities of Oil and Gas Produced
The net quantities of oil and gas produced by the Company for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 1997 are as follows:
(1) No reduction is made for the minority interest in Beaver Lake.
Average Sales Price and Production Cost
The following table sets forth information concerning average per unit sales price and production cost for the Company's oil and gas production for the periods indicated:
Productive Oil and Gas Wells
The following table sets forth certain information at December 31, 1997 relating to the number of productive oil and gas wells (producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells that are shut in) in which the Company owned a working interest:
(1) No reduction is made for the minority interest in Beaver Lake.
In addition to its working interest, the Company holds royalty interests in 86 productive wells in the United States and Canada at December 31, 1997. The Company does not own any royalty interests in Colombia.
Oil and Gas Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information at December 31, 1997 relating to oil and gas acreage in which the Company owned a working interest:
(1) Developed acreage is acreage assigned to productive wells. (2) No reduction is made for the minority interest in Beaver Lake.
Title to Properties
Many of the Company's oil and gas properties are held in the form of mineral leases. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, a preliminary investigation of title is made at the time of acquisition of undeveloped properties. Title investigations covering the drillsite are generally completed, however, before commencement of drilling operations or the acquisition of producing properties. The Company believes that its methods of investigating title to, and acquisition of, its oil and gas properties are consistent with practices customary in the industry and that it has generally satisfactory title to the leases covering its proved reserves.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth certain information for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997 relating to the Company's participation in the drilling of exploratory and development wells.
(1) A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned.
(2) A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional working interest ownership in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of fractional working interests owned in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. No reduction is made for the minority interest in Beaver Lake.
(3) A dry hole is an exploratory or development well that is not a producing well.
Asphalt Refinery
In June 1994, in an effort to increase margins on the heavy crude oil produced from the Company's oil and gas properties in Santa Barbara County, California, the Company, through a wholly owned subsidiary, acquired from Conoco Inc. ("Conoco") and Douglas Oil Company of California an asphalt refinery in Santa Maria, California, which had been inoperative since 1992. The Company refurbished the refinery and, in May 1995, completed a re-permitting environmental impact review process with Santa Barbara County, receiving a Conditional Use Permit to operate the refinery. Pursuant to the refinery purchase agreement, Conoco is required to perform certain remediation and other environmental activities on the refinery property until June 1999, at which point the Company will be responsible for any additional remediation, if any. See "Description of Business-Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters-Refinery Matters."
The Company entered into a processing agreement with Petrosource in May 1995, and recommenced operations of the refinery in June 1995. Under the processing agreement, Petrosource purchases crude oil (including crude oil produced by the Company), delivers it to the refinery, reimburses the Company's out-of-pocket refining costs, markets the asphalt and other products and generally shares any profits equally with the Company. The arrangement with Petrosource ends on December 31, 1998 and the Company does not intend to renew the arrangement on its present terms. From that time forward, the Company may negotiate an alternative arrangement with Petrosource or may assume the marketing responsibilities presently held by Petrosource and may carry the cost of inventorying crude oil and asphalt.
The refinery is a fully self-contained plant with steam generation, mechanical shops, control rooms, office, laboratory, emulsion plant and related facilities, and is staffed with a total of 20 operating, maintenance, laboratory and administrative personnel. Crude oil is delivered to the refinery by trucks to current crude oil storage of 40,000 barrels of processing. An additional 60,000 barrels of crude oil storage is also available for future demands. Crude processing equipment consists of a conventional pre-flash tower, an atmospheric distillation tower, strippers and a vacuum fractionation tower. The refinery has truck and rail loading facilities, including some capability of tank car unloading. Throughput at the refinery has ranged between 2,000 to 4,000 Bopd, while production capacity is approximately 8,000 Bopd.
Refinery products include light feedstock (naphtha), kerosene distillate, gas oils and numerous cut-back, paving and emulsion asphalt products, with the primary product produced at the refinery being asphalt, with some liquids, such as propane. Historically, marketing efforts have been focused on the asphalt products which are sold to various users, primarily in the Southern California area. Liquids are readily marketed to wholesale purchasers.
The Company regards the refinery as a valuable adjunct to its production of crude oil in the Santa Maria Basin and surrounding areas in that it sells its production from those areas to the refinery at a price reflecting a premium to market. Generally, the crude oil produced in these areas is of low gravity and makes an excellent asphalt. Recent prices for asphalt exceed market prices for crude and costs of operating the refinery. The Company believes that as road building and repair increase in California and surrounding western states, the market for asphalt will expand significantly.
Real Estate Activities
The Company from time to time has purchased real estate in conjunction with its acquisition of oil and gas and refining properties in California and plans to continue this practice. In connection with the acquisition of oil and gas producing properties in Santa Maria, California, in June 1993, the Company purchased 1,707 acres in Santa Barbara County for an aggregate purchase price of $465,000. In addition, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire 385 acres in Santa Barbara County in connection with an acquisition of producing oil and gas properties at a contract purchase price of $400,000, the closing of which took place in June 1995. In addition, the Company acquired approximately 370 acres in Santa Maria, California in June 1994 in connection with the acquisition of its Santa Maria refinery. The Company has used a portion of its real estate holdings for agricultural purposes. The Company plans to retain these real estate holdings for asset appreciation which may include developmental activities at a future date.
Office Facilities
The Company's executive and California operations offices are located in Santa Maria, California and its accounting offices are located in Irvine, California. The Company maintains regional offices in Edmond, Oklahoma, Calgary, Alberta, Canada and Bogota, Colombia. These offices, totaling approximately 18,000 square feet, are leased with varying expiration dates to January, 2002 at an aggregate rate of $15,000 per month. The Company owns its office facilities at the asphalt refinery in Santa Maria, which occupy approximately 1,500 square feet of space.
Item 3.