ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
The Company's administrative offices are located at 500 North Loop 1604 East, Suite 250, San Antonio, Texas. These offices, consisting of approximately 13,500 square feet, are leased through August 2007 at $
21,700 per month with annual escalations each February 1.
All the Company's oil and gas properties, reserves, and activities are located onshore in the continental United States. There are no quantities of oil or gas subject to long-term supply or similar agreements with foreign government authorities.
Proved Reserves, Future Net Revenue and
Present Value of Estimated Future Net Revenues
The following unaudited information as of December 31, 2003, relates to the Company's estimated proved oil and gas reserves, estimated future net revenues attributable to such reserves and the present value of such future net revenues using a 10% discount factor ("PV-10 Value"), as estimated by Netherland Sewell & Associates, Inc., a Dallas, Texas, engineering firm. Estimates of proved developed oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's interest at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are set forth in Notes to the Audited Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The PV-10 Value was determined in accordance with SEC requirements using constant prices and expenses as of the calculation date, discounted at 10% per year on a pretax basis, and is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Company.
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
Liquidity is a measure of ability to access cash. The Company's primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties, repayment of contractual obligations and working capital funding. TXCO has historically addressed its long-term liquidity requirements through cash provided by operating activities, the issuance of equity securities when market conditions permit, sale of non-strategic assets, and more recently through the
Credit Facility and issuance of redeemable preferred stock. The prices for future oil and natural gas production and the level of production have significant impacts on operating cash flows and cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Management continues to examine alternative sources of long-term capital, including bank borrowings, the issuance of debt instruments, the sale of common stock, the sales of non-strategic assets, and joint venture financing. Availability of these sources of capital and, therefore, TXCO's ability to execute its operating strategy will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond its control. Management believes that projected operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings under the Credit Facility, will be sufficient to meet the requirements of TXCO's business. However, future cash flows are subject to a number of variables including the level of production and oil and natural gas prices. No assurances can be made that operations and other capital resources will provide cash in sufficient amounts to maintain planned levels of capital expenditures or that increased capital expenditures will not be undertaken. Actual levels of capital expenditures may vary significantly due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to drilling results, product pricing and future acquisition and divestitures of properties.
Bank Credit Facility
On March 4, 2002, the Company entered into a $25 million oil and gas reserve-based Revolving Credit Facility with Hibernia National Bank providing a credit line with an initial borrowing base set at $5 million. The borrowing base was subsequently increased based on increased oil and gas reserves and amendments were made during 2003 that modified the covenant terms and extended the termination date. At December 31, 2003, the borrowing base was $14 million, which was fully utilized, compared with a borrowing base of $12 million, with borrowings of $5.8 million, and unused borrowing capacity of $6.2 million at December 31, 2002. Interest is payable monthly, with principal due at maturity in March 2006. Proceeds are used for the acquisition and development of oil and gas properties and general corporate working capital purposes. The Facility provides the lender with semiannual scheduled redeterminations, at mid-year and each subsequent anniversary date, while providing for two unscheduled redeterminations per year, at the Company's discretion. Borrowings under the Facility are secured by a first-priority mortgage covering the Company's working and other interests in the majority of its oil and gas leases. The Facility also provides the lender with a commitment fee equal to 0.5% per annum on the unused borrowing base.
The Facility contains certain financial covenants and other negative restrictions common for a financing of this type. At December 31, 2003, the Company was not in compliance with the Current Ratio covenant. The Company received a waiver related to this covenant for the December 31, 2003 and March 31, 2004 reporting periods, and expects to be in compliance with the covenant at June 30, 2004 and subsequent periods. Accordingly, the Credit Facility is classified as long-term.
The interest rate under the Facility, during 2002 and 2003, was based on the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate plus applicable margin ("base rate"). A Eurodollar Rate plus applicable margin may be utilized at the election of the Company. The interest rate at December 31, 2003, was 4.0%. The agreement was amended effective December 31, 2003, to provide for two tranches with separate repayment terms and interest rates. Tranche A has similar interest terms to the original agreement, with lower applicable margins on the Eurodollar Rate option, and applies to the first $12.5 million of borrowings. Tranche B will apply to borrowings above $12.5 million and bear interest at the Eurodollar Rate plus 400 basis points. Any borrowings then outstanding under Tranche B will be payable on January 1, 2005. At March 5, 2004, the outstanding balance was $12.95 million and the unused borrowing base was $1.05 million. The rates in effect at March 5, 2004, were 4.0% on $12.5 million of borrowings, and 5.1% on the excess over $12.5 million.
2004 Capital Requirements Outlook
Overall:
Management believes that the Company's positive cash flow from existing production and anticipated production increases from new drilling, along with the Credit Facility, will provide adequate capital to fund operating cash requirements and complete its scheduled exploration and development goals as targeted by its capital expenditure program for 2004. The Company expects it will be able to further increase its borrowing base commensurate with the expected additional growth of its proved oil and gas reserves throughout the base term of the Facility.
Pursuant to the successful efforts method of accounting for mineral properties, the Company periodically assesses its producing and non-producing properties for impairment. Impairment and abandonments increased by 102.4% over 2002 primarily due to higher impairment on producing properties, as production from new plays, such as the Glen Rose oil porosity, have not established the production rates that were expected. Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased by over $2.1 million, or 32.7%, over 2002 due primarily to the increased number of producing wells being depleted, for wells added through the drill bit and a full year activity for the Pena Creek wells acquired in May 2002. Also contributing to the increase in depreciation is the first full year of depreciation on the pipeline and well service equipment acquired in mid-2002.
The Company's gas gathering system is generally expected to operate on a break-even basis. The gas is sold at several points along the system with a significant portion being delivered to purchasers through the El Paso/Gulf Terra Pipeline System ("El Paso"). The gas delivered through El Paso is processed by El Paso to remove natural gas liquids, which are marketed separately by El Paso. The Company receives a share of the revenues for these liquids. Natural gas pricing fluctuations are reflected at the wellhead for the Company's operated gas properties. Due to the acquisition of the Company's primary gas gathering assets in May of 2002, comparisons of 2003 to 2002 are not meaningful. During the current year, the Company's gas gathering system revenues rose $12.6 million, while expense rose $12.5 million. Costs to purchase third-party gas along the Company's gathering system totaled $14.0 million, while associated transportation and marketing expenses required to market that gas were $369,000 and direct operating costs of the pipeline were $749,000. Sharply higher gas prices in late February 2003, combined with an erroneous gas nomination earlier that month, resulted in a one time trading loss of approximately $316,000 in the first quarter. Management has determined the trading loss was an isolated incident and has refined its internal procedures to prevent a similar reoccurrence.
While general and administrative costs increased 83.5% when compared to 2002 levels, they were 9.4% of revenues. This compares favorably to 2002 when general and administrative expenses were 10.7% of revenues. The higher level of absolute dollar costs reflects the higher sustained level of Company operations, and is primarily attributable to higher salaries, wages and benefits and office-related expenses associated with 10 new full-time employees across the organization during 2003, as well as increased directors fees. Also contributing to the increase were higher costs for property and liability insurance. In addition, increases in 2003 general and administrative costs are consistent with the expanded compliance burden mandated by the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in mid-2002. These particular costs are likely to increase significantly in 2004.
The 42.9% decrease in interest income reflects the low average cash levels in interest-bearing accounts. Interest expense increased by $1.1 million in 2003 from 2002 due to higher debt levels, reflecting the
redeemable preferred stock issuance and higher average balances on the Credit Facility. A portion of the interest expense is an accrual reflecting the accretion of the liability on the preferred stock to its full redemption value, which is classified as a long-term liability on the balance sheet.
2002 Compared to 2001
The Company reported a net loss of $310,970 or $0.016 per basic and diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to a net loss of $50,283 or $0.003 per basic and diluted share for the prior year.
Revenues for 2002 increased by 38% compared to 2001. Oil production increased by 528% while natural gas production declined by 7% as compared with the prior year. The increase in oil production is due to the new Comanche lease oil wells, along with production from the May 2002 acquisition of the Pena Creek field. The decline in 2002 gas production compared to the prior year reflects the general production decline of the Company's existing mix of maturing gas wells. This decline was partially offset by new gas production from the 16 new gas wells drilled and completed during the year. Included in the number of gas wells classified as producing at December 31, 2002, were 38 CBM gas wells, which are still in their initial dewatering stage, and are not yet contributing a significant amount of new gas production. On an equivalent-unit basis, prices averaged 18% lower in 2002 as compared to 2001. Crude oil prices averaged 4% higher while natural gas prices fell 27%. Average lower prices for 2002, as compared to 2001, had a $3.6 million negative impact on revenues in 2002. Commodity prices have been and continue to be volatile. During 2001, realized gas prices ranged from a high of $10.50 per Mcf in January to a low of $1.26 per Mcf in October. During 2002 realized natural gas prices ranged from a high of $4.71 per Mcf in November to a low of $1.75 per Mcf in February. During the first three months of 2003 crude oil and natural gas prices have increased significantly. Average daily net gas production rates in 2002 decreased to 6.8 MMcf, a 7% decline from the prior year, while average daily net oil production rates in 2002 increased to 860 Bbls, a 528% over the prior year.
Successful Efforts Method of Accounting
The Company accounts for its natural gas and crude oil exploration and development activities utilizing the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, development dry holes and productive wells, costs to acquire mineral interests and 3-D seismic costs are capitalized. Exploration costs, including personnel costs, certain geological and geophysical expenses including 2-D seismic costs and delay rentals for oil and gas leases, are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. The sale of a partial interest in a proved property is accounted for as a cost recovery and no gain or loss is recognized.
The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires managerial judgment to determine the proper classification of wells designated as developmental or exploratory which will ultimately determine the proper accounting treatment of the costs incurred. The results from a drilling operation can take considerable time to analyze and the determination that commercial reserves have been discovered requires both judgment and industry experience. Wells may be completed that are assumed to be productive and ultimately deliver oil and gas in quantities insufficient to be economic, which may result in the abandonment or recompletion of the wells at later dates. Wells are drilled that have targeted geologic structures that are both developmental and exploratory in nature and an allocation of costs is required to properly account for the results. The evaluation of oil and gas leasehold acquisition costs requires managerial judgment to estimate the fair value of these costs with reference to drilling activity in a given area. Drilling activities in an area by other companies may also effectively condemn leasehold positions.
The successful efforts method of accounting can have a significant impact on the operational results reported when the Company is entering a new exploratory area in hopes of finding an oil and gas field that will be the focus of future development drilling activity. The initial exploratory wells may be unsuccessful and will be expensed.
Reserve Estimates
The Company's estimates of oil and gas reserves, by necessity, are projections based on geologic and engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that are difficult to measure. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions governing future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, severance taxes, development costs and workover gas costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. The future drilling costs associated with reserves assigned to proved undeveloped locations may ultimately increase to an extent that these reserves may be later determined to be uneconomic. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom may vary substantially. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of the reserves, which could affect the carrying value of the Company's oil and gas properties and/or the rate of depletion of the oil and gas properties. Actual production, revenues and expenditures, with respect to the Company's reserves, will likely vary from estimates and such variances may be material. TXCO contracts with Netherland Sewell & Associates, a Dallas-based engineering firm to provide reserve estimates for reporting purposes.
Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties
The Company reviews its oil and gas properties for impairment at least annually and whenever events and circumstances indicate a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value. The Company estimates the expected future cash flows of its oil and gas properties and compares such future cash flows to the carrying amount of the properties to determine if the carrying amount is recoverable. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, the Company will adjust the carrying amount of the oil and gas properties to their fair value. The factors used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, estimates of proved reserves, future commodity pricing, future production estimates, anticipated capital expenditures, and a discount rate commensurate with the risk associated with realizing the expected cash flows projected.
Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require the Company to record an impairment of the recorded book values associated with oil and gas properties. The Company has recognized impairments in prior years and there can be no assurance that impairments will not be required in the future.
Income Taxes
The Company is subject to income and other similar taxes on its operations. When recording income tax expense or benefit, certain estimates are required because: (a) income tax returns are generally filed many months after the close of the calendar year; (b) tax returns are subject to audit which can take years to complete; and (c) future events often impact the timing of when income tax expenses or benefits are recognized. The Company has deferred tax assets relating to tax operating loss carryforwards and other deductible differences. The Company routinely evaluates all deferred tax assets to determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets when management believes that certain of these assets are not likely to be realized, or if likely realization may be many years in the future.
The Company's deferred tax assets exceeded its liabilities at December 31, 2003, and 2002. Based on the Company's projected profitability, a valuation allowance was recorded of approximately $3.0 million and $2.8 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, resulting in a net deferred tax asset at each respective year-end of $5.2 million. Although the Company believes the valuation allowance and resulting deferred tax asset is reasonable, the ultimate recoverability or utilization of the asset is subject to change in future years for reasons explained above.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Accounting Standards No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity" ("SFAS No. 150"). This statement requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability because the financial instrument embodies an obligation of the issuer. SFAS No. 150 is effective for all financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and requires reclassification of existing financial instruments in financial statements for the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The mandatorily redeemable preferred stock discussed in
Note E to the Audited Financial Statements has been recorded as a liability as a result of this Statement.
The FASB and representatives of the accounting staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission are currently engaged in discussions regarding the application of certain provisions of SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," to companies in the extractive industries, including oil and gas companies. The FASB and the SEC staff are considering whether the provisions of SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No.142 require registrants to classify costs associated with mineral rights, including both proved and unproved lease acquisition costs, as intangible assets in the balance sheet, apart from other capitalized oil and gas property costs, and provide specific footnote disclosures.
Historically, the Company has included oil and gas lease acquisition bonus payments as a component of oil and gas properties. In the event the FASB and SEC staff determine that costs associated with mineral rights are required to be classified as intangible assets, a portion of the Company's oil and gas property acquisition costs may be required to be separately classified on its balance sheets as intangible assets or further described in footnote disclosures. However, the Company currently believes that its results of operations and financial condition would not be materially affected since such intangible assets would continue to be depleted and assessed for impairment in accordance with existing successful efforts accounting rules and impairment standards. The Company does not believe the classification of oil and gas lease acquisition costs as intangible assets would have any impact on the Company's compliance with covenants under its debt agreements.
ITEM 7A.