Item 2.
PROPERTIES
The table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 1997 regarding Realty's facilities:
Other Health Care Investments - - -----------------------------
During 1996, Realty invested approximately $13,509,000 in exchange for 7,936,000 shares of common stock, representing 19.99% of NHP Plc, a property investment group that specializes in the financing, through sale and leaseback transactions, of nursing homes located in the United Kingdom. In 1997, Realty purchased an additional 6,349,000 shares of NHP Plc common stock for $13,473,000 in order to maintain its investment at 19.99%. Realty does not have the right to vote more than 9.99% of the shares of NHP Plc. As of September 30, 1997, NHP Plc had invested or committed to invest approximately $288,000,000 in 92 nursing homes, totaling 5,289 beds. The facilities are leased to 13 nursing home operators in the United Kingdom with terms and conditions similar to those contained in Realty's leases.
(1) Based upon information provided by the operators of the facilities, the average occupancy of Realty's portfolio of operating health care facilities, including start-up facilities, for the nine months ended September 30, 1997, was as follows: long-term care facilities, 82%; rehabilitation hospitals, 59%; alcohol and substance abuse treatment facilities, 75%; assisted living, 70%; retirement living facilities, 91%; acute care hospitals, 59%. Generally, average occupancy rates are determined by dividing the number of patient days in each period by the average number of licensed bed days during such period.
(2) Represents purchase price or mortgage amount at December 31, 1997 for operating facilities and the funded loan amounts for facilities under construction
(3) The annual base rentals/interest payments under the leases or mortgages are generally projected to be approximately 9% - 13% of the purchase price or mortgage amount, in accordance with the terms of the respective agreements. Base rent excludes additional and percentage rent and interest. Additional and percentage rent and interest for the year ended December 31, 1997 was an aggregate of $12,065,000 for all of the facilities. Additional and percentage rent and interest are calculated based upon a percentage of a facility's revenues over an agreed upon base amount or an automatic annual escalation.
(4) Permanent mortgage loans
(5) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $39,585,000
(6) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $46,406,000 and a construction loan of $2,797,000
(7) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $17,945,000 and a construction loan of $5,848,000
(8) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $46,805,000
(9) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $192,747,000
(10) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $7,849,000
(11) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $74,801,000
(12) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $50,163,000 and a construction loan of $3,944,000
(13) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $18,156,000 and a construction loan of $8,589,000
(14) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $3,118,000 and construction loans of $39,786,000
(15) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $548,000
(16) Includes a construction loan of $1,676,000
(17) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $15,689,000
(18) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $12,333,000
(19) Includes a line of credit of up to $25,000,000 of which $20,815,000 has been drawn; the amount outstanding is cross-collateralized by affiliated facilities of the operator
(20) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $3,030,000
(21) Construction loan(s)
(22) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $26,450,000 and construction loans of $33,320,000
(23) Includes a construction loan of $1,969,000
(24) Includes construction loans of $16,179,000
(25) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $4,630,000 and a construction loan of $2,710,000
(26) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $4,671,000
(27) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $4,288,000
(28) Includes a construction loan of $3,266,000
(29) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $5,032,000
(30) Includes lines of credit of up to $34,500,000 of which $19,087,000 has been drawn; the amount outstanding is cross-collateralized by affiliated facilities of the operator
(31) Includes a permanent mortgage loan of $27,545,000
(32) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $13,052,000
(33) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $44,323,000 and construction loans of $19,007,000
(34) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $17,844,000 and construction loans of $18,120,000
(35) Base rental income is based on a percentage of total live on-track wagering as well as a percentage of revenues from satellite wagering and the simulcasting of races originating from Santa Anita Racetrack after mandated payments to the State, horse owners and breeders.
(36) Includes permanent mortgage loans of $5,478,000
(37) The Santa Anita Fashion Park is owned and operated by a partnership, Anita Associates, of which Realty is a 50% limited partner. Income is in the form of partnership distributions.
(38) Investments by Realty in facilities operated by Life Care Centers of America, Inc., Sun Healthcare Group, Inc., Emeritus Corporation, Alternative Living Services, HealthSouth Rehab, and Springwood/Chur Associates, represented 19%, 13%, 7%, 6%, 5%, and 4%, respectively, of Realty's total portfolio as of December 31, 1997.
Long-Term Care Facilities. The long-term care facilities offer restorative, rehabilitative and custodial nursing care for patients not requiring more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at acute care hospitals. The facilities are designed to provide custodial care and to supplement hospital care and many have transfer agreements with one or more acute care hospitals.
Assisted Living Facilities. The assisted living facility provides a combination of housing, supportive services, personalized assistance and health care designed to respond to individual needs for daily living and instrumental activities. Support services are generally available 24 hours a day to meet scheduled and unscheduled needs.
Retirement Living Facilities. The retirement living facilities offer specially designed residential units for active and ambulatory elderly residents and provide various ancillary services. They may contain nursing facilities to provide a continuum of care. The retirement living facilities offer their residents an opportunity for an independent lifestyle with a range of social and health services.
Rehabilitation Hospitals. The rehabilitation hospitals provide treatment to restore physical, psycho-social, educational, vocational and economic usefulness and independence to disabled persons. Rehabilitation concentrates on physical disabilities and impairments and utilizes a coordinated multidisciplinary team approach to help patients attain measurable goals.
Medical Office Buildings. Medical office building facilities contain individual physician, physician group and other health care provider offices for the administration and treatment of patients, usually in close proximity to the general service acute care hospital to which the physicians are affiliated. The types of services provided in a medical office building may include outpatient therapy, clinics, examination facilities and the provision of other medical services in a non-hospital setting.
Acute Care Hospitals. Acute care hospitals provide services that include, among others, general surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, diagnostic services, coronary care, pediatric services and psychiatric services. On an outpatient basis, the services include, among others, same day surgery, diagnostic radiology (e.g. magnetic resonance imaging, CT scanning, X-ray), rehabilitative therapy, clinical laboratory services, pharmaceutical services and psychiatric services.
Alcohol and Substance Abuse Treatment Facilities. These facilities provide inpatient treatment for alcohol and substance abuse, including medical evaluation, detoxification and rehabilitation. Specialized programs offer treatment for adults, adolescents, families and chronic abusers.
Psychiatric Hospitals. The psychiatric hospitals offer comprehensive, multidisciplinary adult, adolescent and substance abuse psychiatric programs. Patients are evaluated upon admission and an individualized treatment plan is developed. Elements of the treatment plan include individual, group and family therapy, activity therapy, educational programs and career and vocational planning.
LEASES
Generally, each health care facility (which includes the land, buildings, improvements, related easements, and rights and fixtures (the "Leased Properties")) that is owned by Realty is leased pursuant to a long-term triple net lease (collectively, the "Leases") which typically contains terms as outlined below. Leased Properties usually do not include major movable equipment.
The Leases generally have a fixed term of approximately 10 years and contain multiple renewal options. Some Leases are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Lease.
Realty's Leased Properties aggregated approximately $1,627,779,000 of gross real estate investments at December 31, 1997. The base rents range from approximately 9% to 13% per annum of the Realty's equity investment in the Leased Properties and many may be adjusted upward during the fifth year of the Leases to an amount equal to 300 to 500 basis points over the five-year United States Treasury securities' yield at the time of adjustment. The base rents for the renewal periods are generally fixed rents for the initial renewal periods and market rates for later renewal periods. All Leases provide for either an automatic fixed annual rent escalation or additional variable rents in addition to the base rent, based on revenues exceeding specified base revenues. Realty typically also charges a lease commitment fee at the initiation of the sale/leaseback transaction.
Each Lease is a triple net lease requiring the lessee to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the Leased Property. The lessees are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the Leased Properties.
The obligations under the Leases are generally guaranteed by the parent corporation of the lessee, if any, or affiliates or individual principals of the lessee. Some obligations are further backed by letters of credit, cash collateral or pledges of certificates of deposit from various financial institutions which may cover up to one full year's lease payments and which remain in effect until the expiration of a fixed time period or the fulfillment of certain performance criteria.
Realty also obtains other credit enhancement devices similar to those it may obtain with respect to permanent mortgage loans. See "Permanent Mortgage Loans" for description.
With respect to two of the facilities, Realty leases the land pursuant to ground leases and in turn subleases the land to the operator of the facility. Such subleases contain terms substantially similar to those found in the Leases.
PERMANENT MORTGAGE LOANS
Realty's permanent mortgage loan program is comprised of secured loans which are structured to provide Realty with interest income, additional interest based upon the revenue growth of the operating facility or a fixed rate increase, principal amortization and commitment fees. Virtually all of the approximately $1,432,825,000 of permanent mortgage loans as of December 31, 1997 are first mortgage loans.
The interest rates on Realty's investments in permanent mortgage loans for operating facilities range from approximately 9% to 13% per annum on the outstanding balances. The yield to Realty on permanent mortgage loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan, the amount of the commitment fee charged at the inception of the loan, the interest rate adjustments and the additional interest earned.
The permanent mortgage loans for operating facilities made through December 31, 1997 are generally subject to 10-year terms with up to 30-year amortization schedules that provide for a balloon payment of the outstanding principal balance at the end of the tenth year. Some of the mortgages include an interest adjustment in the fifth year which generally provides for interest to be charged at the greater of the current interest rate or 300 to 400 basis points over the five-year United States Treasury securities' yield at the time of adjustment.
Realty generally requires a variety of additional forms of security and collateral beyond that which is provided by the lien of the mortgage. For example, Realty requires one or more of the following items: (a) a guaranty of the complete payment and performance of all obligations associated with each mortgage loan from the borrower's parent corporation, if any, other affiliates of the borrower and/or one or more of the individual principals controlling such borrower; (b) a collateral assignment from the borrower of the leases and the rents relating to the mortgaged property; (c) a collateral assignment from the borrower of all permits, licenses, approvals and contracts relating to the operation of the mortgaged property; (d) a pledge of all, or substantially all, of the equity interest held in the borrower; (e) cash collateral or a pledge of a certificate of deposit, for a negotiated dollar amount typically equal to three months to one year's principal and interest on the loan (which cash collateral or pledge of certificate of deposit typically remains in effect until the later to occur of (i) three years after the closing of the mortgage loan or (ii) the achievement by the facility of an agreed-upon cash flow debt coverage ratio for three consecutive fiscal quarters and, in the event that after the expiration of the letter of credit or pledge of certificate of deposit, the agreed-upon financial covenants are not maintained throughout the loan term, the borrower is often required to reinstate the cash collateral or pledge of certificate of deposit); (f) an agreement by any affiliate of the borrower or operator of the facility to subordinate all payments due to it from the borrower to all payments due to Realty under the mortgage loan; and (g) a security interest in all of the borrower's personal property, including, in some instances, the borrower's accounts receivable. In addition, the mortgage loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with any other mortgage loans, leases or other agreements between the borrower or any affiliate of the borrower and Realty.
DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS AND LOANS
Realty makes development investments or loans which by their terms are or convert into sale/leaseback transactions or permanent mortgage loans upon the completion of the facilities. Generally, the interest or yield rates on the outstanding balances of Realty's developments are up to 300 basis points over the prime rate of a specified financial institution. Realty also typically charges a commitment fee at the commencement of the project. The development period generally commences upon the funding of such investments or loans and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of development of the applicable facility or a specific date. This period is generally 12 to 18 months. During the development term, funds are advanced pursuant to draw requests in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement which require a site visit prior to the advancement of funds. Monthly payments based on an interest or yield rate only, are made on the total amount of the investment or loan proceeds advanced during the development period.
Realty began its development program in August 1987 and since that time has converted many of these developments into sale/leaseback transactions or permanent mortgage loans representing an investment of $529,341,000 as of December 31, 1997. In addition, at December 31, 1997 Realty had outstanding development financing of $252,774,000 and was committed to providing additional
financing of approximately $204,030,000. As with Realty's sale/leaseback transactions or permanent mortgage financing programs, the developments generally include a variety of additional forms of security and collateral. See "Leases" and "Permanent Mortgage Loans." During the development period, Realty generally requires additional security and collateral in the form of either payment and performance completion bonds or completion guarantees by either one, or a combination of, the lessee's or borrower's parent entity, other affiliates, or one or more of the individual principals.
As a further safeguard during the development period, Realty generally will retain a portion of the funding equal to 10% of the transaction amount until it has received satisfactory evidence that the project has been fully completed in accordance with the applicable plans and specifications and the period during which liens may be perfected with respect to any work performed, or labor or materials supplied, in connection with the construction of the project has expired. Realty also monitors the progress of the development of each project, the construction budget and the accuracy of the borrower's draw requests by having its own inspector perform on-site inspections of the project prior to the release of any requested funds.
SANTA ANITA RACETRACK LEASE ARRANGEMENT
The Santa Anita Racetrack, which is leased by Realty to LATC, a subsidiary of Operating, is located on approximately 312 acres, 14 miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles, adjacent to major transportation routes. LATC conducts one of the largest thoroughbred horse racing meets in the United States in terms of both average daily attendance and average daily pari-mutuel wagering.
LATC conducts an annual 17-week thoroughbred horse racing meet which commences the day after Christmas and continues through mid-April.
LATC leases the Racetrack from Realty for the full year for a fee of 1.5% of total live on-track wagering at Santa Anita Racetrack, including live on-track wagering during the meet conducted by Oak Tree. In addition, LATC pays to Realty 26.5% of its revenues from satellite wagering (not to exceed 1.5% of such wagering) and the simulcasting of races originating from Santa Anita Racetrack after mandated payments to the State, to horse owners and to breeders. When LATC operates as a satellite for Hollywood Park Racetrack, Del Mar Racetrack and Pomona Fairplex, LATC pays to Realty 26.5% of its wagering commissions as additional rent. The lease with Realty is scheduled to expire on December 31, 1999. LATC has sublet the racetrack to Oak Tree to conduct Oak Tree's annual thoroughbred horse racing meet (27 days in 1996), which commences in late September or early October. Oak Tree normally races five weeks in even-numbered years and six weeks in odd-numbered years.
Under a sublease which expires December 31, 1999, Oak Tree makes annual rental payments to LATC equal to 1.5% of the total live on-track pari-mutuel wagering from its racing meet and 25% of its satellite and simulcast revenues after mandated payments to the State of California, to horse owners and to breeders. LATC pays to Realty 26.5% of all satellite and simulcast revenues received from Oak Tree. In addition, Oak Tree reimburses LATC an amount equal to 0.8% of its on-track pari-mutuel wagering for certain expenses of operating Santa Anita Racetrack on behalf of Oak Tree. LATC also receives supplemental rent representing Oak Tree's adjusted profits above an agreed-upon level and will rebate rent to Oak Tree if Oak Tree's adjusted profits fall below such level.
SANTA ANITA FASHION PARK
Santa Anita Fashion Park is a completely enclosed, climate-controlled regional mall located adjacent to Santa Anita Racetrack with 1,102,000 square feet of leasable area. Fashion Park, apart from space occupied by anchor tenants, is owned and operated by a partnership, Anita Associates, of which Realty is a 50% limited partner. The general partner of Anita Associates is Hahn-UPI, which in turn is a limited partnership of which TrizecHahn Centers Inc., a developer of shopping centers, is the general partner.
Realty has leased the land underlying Fashion Park to Anita Associates and to three of the major tenants of Fashion Park until 2037, with two additional ten-year option periods and one additional five-year option period. The annual ground rent is $795,000 and continues through 2007. During the remaining 30-year term and the three additional option periods, the annual ground rent may be increased up to 25% based upon the appraised value of the land. Under the provisions of the ground leases, Anita Associates is responsible for real estate taxes and other operating expenses. Robinsons-May, J.C. Penney, Macy's and Nordstrom pay their own real estate taxes.
LAND
Realty also has land held for development of an entertainment center valued at $45,223,000. In March 1995, Realty filed an application with the City of Arcadia for entitlements for a 1.5 million square foot development on approximately 100 acres of land adjacent to the Santa Anita racetrack and the Santa Anita Fashion Park. As part of the planned development, Realty is negotiating a lease with a movie exhibitor for a multiple screen multiplex theater and negotiations with a variety of prospective tenants, including a book superstore and other specialty retail stores and restaurants. Realty formed a community advisory group to facilitate community acceptance of the project and continued to engage in negotiations with the City government regarding the entitlement process. Realty also has land held for future development at the racetrack valued at approximately $13,000,000 that is currently idle and is a 50% partner in French Valley Ventures, a partnership which acquired 24 acres of unimproved land valued at $330,000 located in Temecula, California. Realty intends to dispose of its interest in the Temecula property.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of a release of such substances at a disposal treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with ACMs. In connection with the ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of real properties, the Companies may be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other related costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property.
Item 3.