ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into the reportable segments consistent with the manner in which they are disclosed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data, Note 16 Operating Segment Reporting and subsequently classify them within each segment by their respective stage of development: “Production Properties”, “Advanced-Stage Properties” and “Exploration Properties”. Advanced-stage properties consist of properties for which a feasibility study has been completed indicating the presence of mineralized material, and for which we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining the required permitting. Our designation of certain properties as “Production Properties” or “Advanced-stage Properties” should not suggest that we have proven or probable reserves at those properties as defined by the SEC Industry Guide 7.
Our significant production, advanced-stage and exploration properties are described below.
SEGMENT: MEXICO
The following map depicts the location of our major properties included in the Mexico Operations segment, which are El Gallo 1 mine and the El Gallo 2 project described in the sections below:
The following table summarizes the Mexico land position of our Company as of December 31, 2016:
Production Properties
El Gallo 1 mine, Mexico (100% owned)
For detailed information on the El Gallo 1 mine production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
We own through our Mexican subsidiary Pangea Resources Inc.. (“Pangea”), 100% of the El Gallo 1 mine. The El Gallo 1 mine refers to the open-pit mine and heap leach operation formerly known as the Magistral mine. Modern exploration activities at the Magistral mine and surrounding properties started in early 1995 and were carried out by several companies, mainly in the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposit areas, as well as Sagrado Corazón-Central-Lupita deposit area. Commercial production was initiated in 2002 by Nevada Pacific Gold Ltd. and the mine produced approximately 70,000
ounces of gold from 2002 to 2005 before it was placed on care and maintenance due to higher than anticipated operating costs and a lack of working capital. We acquired the property in 2007, refurbished the infrastructure and completed the first gold pour in September 2012, with commercial production commencing on January 1, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the El Gallo 1 mine produced a total of 54,928 ounces of gold and 25,336 ounces of silver, and a cumulative total of 193,703 ounces of gold and 106,292 ounces of silver since recommencement of commercial production.
The El Gallo 1 mine consists of 8 square miles (21 square km) of concessions held through 100% ownership by Minera Pangea S.A. de C.V. (“Minera Pangea”). Concession titles are granted under Mexican mining law. Mining concessions are subject to annual work requirements and payment of annual surface taxes which are assessed and levied on a semi-annual basis, in January and July of each year on a per hectare basis and in accordance with the amounts provided by the Federal Fees Law.
An annual lease agreement for surface access to the El Gallo 1 mine is currently in place between Minera Pangea and certain of our employees who hold the surface rights. These lease agreements provide for access and site preparation to accommodate exploration activities, drilling, mining and production. The employees who hold the surface rights have commenced the required legal process to convert the land into private ownership so it can be transferred to us. Although the agreements cover a large area around the project, there can be no assurances that additional surface rights will not be required.
Various environmental permits are required in order to perform exploration drilling in Sinaloa State. Permitting requirements are dependent upon the level of disturbance. Exemptions can generally be obtained if drilling occurs in areas where no new disturbance will occur and vegetation will not be removed (agricultural areas, dirt roads, previously mined sites). If drilling occurs on previously undisturbed land and vegetation will be removed, an Environmental Impact Study and Land Use Change are required. Each of the areas where we are currently conducting exploration drilling has the required permit or exemption.
As of the date of filing this report, the El Gallo 1 mine has all of the necessary permits for current operations, of which key permits must be renewed in June 2022. Further permits are or may be required for the satellite deposits included within or near El Gallo 1 mine footprint. Specific permit-required conditions must be followed during operations including, but not limited to: environmental impact study, land use change, and risk analysis plan.
Location and Access
The El Gallo 1 mine and the surrounding properties are located in the Municipality of Mocorito which is within the State of Sinaloa in northwestern Mexico. It is situated approximately 60 miles (100 kilometers) by air northwest of the Sinaloa state capital city of Culiacan in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range. The concessions are located approximately 2.5 miles (4.0 kilometers) by road from the village of Mocorito, approximately 10 miles (16 kilometers) from the town of Guamúchil. Access is either by paved or well maintained, two-way, dirt roads.
Geology and Mineralization
Gold mineralization in the El Gallo 1 mine area occurs in six known deposits (Samaniego, San Rafael, San Dimas, Sagrado Corazón, Lupita and Central) along two distinct structural trends, northwest and northeast. A northwest trending structural zone hosts the Samaniego and San Rafael deposits. San Dimas also is hosted by a northwest-striking structure. The second structural trend is northeast-striking and includes the Sagrado Corazón, Lupita and Central deposits. Along these structural trends the mineralization is located within numerous sub-structures that may be parallel, oblique or even perpendicular to the principal trends. Mineralization among the various deposits of the El Gallo 1 mine area is generally similar, with the individual structural zones consisting of quartz stockwork, breccia, and local quartz vein mineralization occurring within propylitically altered andesitic volcanic rocks. The Samaniego, San Rafael, Lupita, Sagrado Corazon, Central and San Dimas deposits are characterized by gold accompanied by iron oxide and variable copper, zinc and lead.
Facilities and Infrastructure
The El Gallo 1 mine property has well-developed infrastructure including electricity, roads and high-speed internet access. There is a truck shop, a warehouse, a fuel depot, two core logging facilities, an explosives magazine, heap leach pads, process ponds, an assay laboratory, three stage crushing plant, an ADR process plant and an administrative office. The laboratory is equipped to process all assays (blasthole samples from the mine, core, chips and soil) and incorporates fire assaying and atomic absorption equipment. Also included is a metallurgical lab capable of processing bottle rolls and columns to determine gold and silver recoveries of ores amenable to cyanide leaching.
In 2016, we undertook the expansion of the heap leach pad in anticipation of the heap leach reaching its maximum capacity. The leach pad extension was commissioned late in the second quarter of 2016.
There is also access to a local work force that is familiar with mining operations. Mining operations and site security are performed by contractors and the Company has its own workforce in the administrative and processing areas.
The primary water supply for the El Gallo 1 mine comes from two currently operating water wells located 0.9 miles (1.5 km) from the process facility. Wells are powered by a generator that pumps water into a raw water pond, which is then used for operations. The wells combined with local annual precipitation of approximately 32 inches (~830 mm) provide sufficient supply for the El Gallo 1 mine production.
No Proven or Probable Reserves
We have not yet demonstrated the existence of Proven or Probable Reserves at the El Gallo 1 mine as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Royalties
Coeur Mining Inc. a NYSE listed company, held a sliding scale net smelter return royalty (“NSR”) on gold or gold equivalent material recovered from the El Gallo 1 mine and the El Gallo 2 project. In the second quarter of 2016, we bought back the royalty at a cost of $6.3 million which eliminated the royalty payments. The remaining royalties are limited to a 2% NSR on gold or gold equivalent material recovered from the San Dimas deposit.
Advanced-stage Properties
El Gallo 2 Project, Mexico (100% owned)
Overview and History
The El Gallo 2 project is an advanced-stage project. It is also 100% owned by our subsidiary Minera Pangea and is subject to the environmental permitting requirements applicable to the State of Sinaloa previously described.
A feasibility study (‘‘FS’’) was completed on the El Gallo 2 project in September 2012. As a result of changes in commodity prices since the publication of the FS, we are of the view that there is no current feasibility study in respect of the El Gallo 2 project. We believe that the figures set out in the FS are historical in nature and should not be relied on. A final decision to proceed with the construction of El Gallo 2 has not been made and alternatives to reduce capital and operating costs continue to be examined by the Company. Any decision to proceed would be based on improved silver price expectations, improved project economics, and securing financing on terms that are more favorable than those that were available to the Company at the time of completing the FS. During 2016, we performed further studies on the feasibility and development of the El Gallo 2 project. However, as of December 31, 2016, no study has been completed.
Access and Location
The El Gallo 2 project is located in the Municipality of Mocorito which is within the State of Sinaloa in northwestern Mexico, 3.0 miles (4.8 km) northwest of our El Gallo 1 mine.
Geology and Mineralization
At the El Gallo 2 project, the mineralization is characterized by siliceous breccia zones and quartz stockwork zones within the predominantly andesitic rock package. These zones often occur at lithologic contacts, particularly contacts of Tertiary porphyry intrusions. Multi-lithologic breccias zones are often adjacent to these contacts and these breccias are locally mineralized. Mineral zones commonly have gently-dipping tabular geometry. Often, these zones reflect control by sill contacts of the Tertiary intrusives.
Facilities and Infrastructure
The water supply for the El Gallo 2 project is expected to come from three locally drilled water wells. Required water yields were confirmed through several long-term pumping tests during the 2013 hydraulic aquifer investigation.
Exploration
The initial deposit at the El Gallo 2 project was initially discovered in 2008. Prior to the discovery, there was no recorded history of exploration having occurred at the El Gallo 2 project. The first core drilling at the El Gallo 2 project commenced in January 2009 and lasted until September 2011. No significant drilling was completed between 2012 and 2016. We have allocated a portion of our 2017 budget to greenfield and brownfield exploration with the focus on mapping, geophysics and geochemistry work in potentially prospective areas including the corridor between El Gallo 1 mine and the El Gallo 2 project.
No Proven or Probable Reserves
We have not yet demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves at the El Gallo 2 project as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Exploration Properties
Our land position related to Exploration Properties in Mexico consists of several claims not associated with a specific project such as Palmarito and Mina Grande among others. The Palmarito silver deposit is a historic silver mine area that had historical production from open pit and underground workings before mining ceased in 1950s.
Since 2008, exploration activities across the license areas have included prospecting, stream sediment, and soil and rock chip geochemistry often leading to more detailed work including large scale mapping, blasthole drilling and ultimately RC and core drilling programs. This stage gate approach has led to either a steady progression of work in prospective areas or the suspension of work in less favorable areas. The prioritization of targets has continued based on new data and interpretations.
In 2016, we concentrated on some prospective areas in the vicinity of the El Gallo 1 mine; particularly Encuentro South which is located 7 miles (11 km) southwest of the El Gallo 1 mine, where we ran a drill program and identified mineralized material.
We allocated part of its 2017 budget to continue the exploration work, particularly in the area of mapping, as well as geophysics and geochemistry studies with the focus on Encuentro South, Tescalama, Mapiri, Revancha, Mina Grande and Palmarito.
SEGMENT: MINERA SANTA CRUZ (“MSC”)
The following map depicts the location of our major properties included in MSC’s segment which are the San José mine and other concessions located around the mine:
Production Properties
San José mine, Argentina (49% owned)
For detailed information on the San José mine production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
The San José mine (49% McEwen Mining and 51% Hochschild Mining) is an underground operation located approximately 20 km north of Goldcorp’s Cerro Negro project in the northwest corner of the Deseado Massif region of Province of Santa Cruz in Argentina. The San José mine is operated by Minera Santa Cruz (“MSC”), a subsidiary of Hochschild Mining. The mine is part of a larger property, which covers the total area of approximately 1,132 sq. miles. (2,933 sq. km) and consists of 137 mining concessions (consisting of 69 Minas or approved mining claims; 52 Manifestaciones de Descubrimiento, or claims that are in the application process for mining claim status; and 16 Cateos, or claims that are for exploration only). This includes mineral rights that were transferred to MSC pursuant to two separate vend-in agreements between MSC, our Company and Hochschild, which were completed in October 2013 and October 2015. Under the agreements, we agreed to contribute to MSC the mining rights to a certain number of our Santa Cruz exploration properties, with Hochschild also contributing to MSC certain of its mineral properties located in the same region.
We acquired our interest in the San José mine in connection with our acquisition of Minera Andes, in January 2012. The property was acquired by Minera Andes in 1997, following the completion of a regional geological study. In March 2001 (and subsequently amended by agreements dated May 14, 2002, August 27, 2002, September 10, 2004, and September 17, 2010), an option and joint venture agreement (“OJVA”) was signed between Minera Andes (49%) and
Hochschild (51%) covering the San José property. Under the terms of the OJVA, a subsidiary of Hochschild acquired a majority interest in the property and title to the San José property and the San José mine is held by MSC, the holding and operating company set up under the terms of the OJVA. MSC has purchased the land and corresponding occupation rights that are necessary to conduct its operations. All of the known mineralized zones, mineral resources and mineral reserves and active mine workings, existing tailing ponds and waste are within MSC’s concessions.
Location and Access
The San José property is located in the District of Perito Moreno, in the province of Santa Cruz, Argentina, lying approximately between latitude 46°41’S and 46°47’S and longitude 70°17’W and 70°00’W. The mine is 1,087 miles (1,750 kilometers) south-southwest of Buenos Aires and 217 miles (350 kilometers) southwest of the Atlantic port of Comodoro Rivadavia. The principal access route to the San José property is an unsealed dirt road section of 20 miles (32 kilometers) and then tarmac road to the port of Comodoro Rivadavia which has scheduled national air services to Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina, with international air connections. The nearest town is Perito Moreno, which is approximately 19 miles (30 kilometers) west of the San José property.
The San José property is within an arid to semi-arid area of Argentina, with short, warm summers reaching temperatures above 70°F (21°C) and winters with temperatures commonly below 32°F (0°C). Strong and persistent winds are common especially during the warmer months (October to May). Average rainfall at the site is estimated to be 5.7 inches (144 millimeters) and snowfall amounts to 1.3 inches (32.5 millimeters). Annual average temperature is 48°F (8.9°C). MSC has maintained a weather station at the property since January 2005. Mining and exploration continue year round in this part of Argentina.
Geology and Mineralization
The San José property is located in the Deseado Massif which consists of Paleozoic metamorphic basement rocks uncomfortably overlain by Middle to Upper Jurassic bimodal andesitic and rhyolitic volcanics and volcaniclastics. Cretaceous sediments and Tertiary to Quaternary basalts overlie the Jurassic volcanics. The Jurassic Bajo Pobre Formation is the main host of gold and silver vein mineralization at the mine as well as many regional prospects. The Formation also hosts some of the mineralization at Saavedra West Zone. The formation is comprised of a lower andesite volcaniclastic unit and an upper andesite lava flow and has a maximum thickness of 394 ft. (120 m). Mineralization in the San José area occurs as low sulfidation epithermal quartz veins, breccias and stockwork systems accompanying normal-sinistral faults striking 330° to 340°. The main structural trend of fault and vein systems on the property is west-northwest to north-northwest.
Exploration Activities
Minera Andes Inc. staked the San José property in 1997 and the initial exploration work was conducted in the late 1990s. Minera Andes carried out an intensive exploration program from 1997 to 2001, leading to the discovery of the Huevos Verdes and Saavedra West Zones. A feasibility study was completed in October 2005 under the direction of MSC and the decision to proceed to production was made on March 28, 2006. Plant, infrastructure construction and mine development continued from July 2006 to September 2007 and commercial production was declared on January 1, 2008.
From 2009 to 2012, drilling focused on extending certain veins in order to identify new areas of mineralization and extensions as well as increasing resources in the existing veins through continuous infill drilling. After substantial new resources were added during 2012, the exploration focus for 2013 shifted to geological mapping of the southwest sector of the property with the objective of defining new exploration targets leading to the discovery of new veins. In 2014, geological mapping of the San José mining property continued, covering an area of approximately 50,000 hectares. During 2015 the exploration work focused on the reinterpretation of the mapped areas based on information obtained during 2014 and based on historical geophysical data. In 2016, approximately 5,200 meters were drilled in the Colorado Grande and Aguas Vivas zones and further drilling is expected in these zones in 2017.
Facilities and Infrastructure
Infrastructure of the property consists of camp facilities that can accommodate up to approximately 1,100 personnel, a medical clinic, a security building, a maintenance shop, a laboratory, processing facilities, a mine and process facility warehouse, a surface tailings impoundment, support buildings and mine portals, a change house, a core warehouse, an administration building and offices. The laboratory is equipped to process all assays (core, chips and soil) and incorporates
fire assaying and atomic absorption equipment. MSC has installed a satellite-based telephone/data/internet communication system.
Electricity is provided by an 81-mile (130 km) 132 kV electric transmission line, which was constructed in 2009 and connects the San José mine processing facility to the national power grid.
The San José mine is a ramp access underground mining operation. The deposit veins are accessed from three main portals: the Tehuelche Portal, the Kospi Portal and the Güer Aike Portal. The main ramps are located about 164 ft. (50 m) from the vein, depending on the dip of the ore. Cross-cuts to the ramp are centrally positioned on the vein and usually have an ore pass and a waste/backfill pass.
The processing plant at the San José mine is composed of conventional crushing, grinding and flotation circuits. Approximately one-half of the silver-gold flotation concentrate is processed in an intensive cyanide leaching circuit with the dissolved gold and silver recovered by electrowinning of a clarified solution followed by smelting to produce doré. The balance of the flotation concentrate is filtered and shipped to a smelter. Flotation and leached tailings are stored in side-by-side engineered, zero discharge facilities. A Merrill Crowe circuit recovers small amounts of gold and silver from the electrowinning discharge solution. In 2012, modifications were undertaken to modify the crushing circuit, in order to increase the mill throughput capacity by 10%, from a nominal 1,500 tonnes per day to 1,650 tonnes per day. The modifications were completed in 2013. In 2013, the capacity of the flotation tailing dam was also increased, followed by the construction of a new tailing dam which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014, and operational in the first quarter 2015.
Reserves
The reserves information for the San José mine as at December 31, 2016, on a 100% basis, was prepared by Hochschild and audited by P&E Mining Consultants Inc. (“P&E”). In its report dated February 15, 2017, P&E concluded that the reserve estimates for the San José mine prepared by Hochschild provide a reliable estimation of reserves in accordance with the standards of the Joint Ore Reserve Committee of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (“JORC”), NI 43-101, the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (“CIM”) best practices and SEC Industry Guide 7.
The mineral reserves were estimated using metal prices of $1,200 per ounce of gold and $16.5 per ounce of silver with a marginal revenue cut-off value of $88.60 per tonne. The reserves, as presented, are in-place and include mining dilution and mining losses, but do not include allowances for mill or smelter recoveries.
The following table describes 100% of proven and probable gold and silver reserves of the San José mine, as of December 31, 2016:
SEGMENT: LOS AZULES
Exploration Properties
The following map depicts the location of our major exploration properties in Los Azules segment:
The following table summarizes the land position related to Los Azules segment as of December 31, 2016:
Los Azules Copper Project, Argentina (100% owned)
Overview and History
The Los Azules copper project is a 100% owned advanced-stage porphyry copper exploration project located in the cordilleran region of San Juan Province, Argentina near the border with Chile. We acquired this property, along with other Argentina exploration properties and our interest in the San José mine, in connection with the acquisition of Minera Andes in January 2012.
In October 2014, we terminated the option held by TNR Gold Corp (“TNR”) to acquire a minority ownership position in Los Azules (the “Back-In Right Option”). In exchange for the termination of the Back-In Right Option, we issued 850,000 shares of our common stock to TNR, and granted a 0.4% net smelter royalty on Los Azules. Further, if we sell all of our interest in the project within 36 months of closing the transaction on October 16, 2014, we will grant a bonus payment equal to 1% of the gross proceeds of such transaction to TNR.
Location and Access
The property is located at approximately 31o 13’30” south latitude and 70o 13’50” west longitude and about 4 miles (6 km) east of the Chilean-Argentine border. We currently hold 321 claims which encompasses 32,723 ha (327 sq. km) that surround a large alteration zone that is approximately 5 miles (8 km) long by 1.2 miles (2 km) wide. It is accessible by unimproved dirt roads except for seasonal closures in winter. The elevation at the site ranges between 11,500 feet to 14,750 feet (3,500 m to 4,500 m) above sea level.
Geology and Mineralization
The deposit is located within a copper porphyry belt that is host to some of the world’s largest copper mines. The upper part of the system consists of a barren leached cap, which is underlain by a high-grade secondary enrichment blanket. Primary mineralization below the secondary enrichment zone has been intersected in drilling up to a depth of more than 3,280 ft. (1,000 mt.) below surface.
Exploration Activities
Drilling conditions in the area are difficult, especially in highly faulted zones and in areas of unconsolidated surface scree or talus. Due to snow conditions on two mountain passes on the access road to the site, seasonal exploration typically commences in December and extends into late April or early May. Drilling programs have been undertaken at Los Azules between 1998 and 2014 by four different mineral exploration companies: Battle Mountain Gold (now Newmont Mining Inc.), Mount Isa Mines S.A. (now Glencore Plc.), Minera Andes and McEwen Mining. Drilling, including early reverse circulation programs, focused initially on gold exploration and subsequently on diamond drilling for porphyry style copper mineralization. From 1998 until the second quarter of 2013, a total of 195,210 ft. (59,500 m.) were drilled on the property. No significant drilling took place between third quarter of 2013 and fourth quarter of 2016 as we focused on baseline studies regarding flora, fauna, water quality and other environmental compliance matters. However, we allocated a significant portion of our exploration budget to 2016-2017 season to perform additional drilling. As of December 31, 2016, minimal drilling was performed as a drilling campaign was expected to commence in January 2017.
In November 2013, we filed a NI 43-101 Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) prepared by Samuel Engineering Inc. In 2016, we engaged Hatch Ltd to perform a case study and provide feedback on the project. As of December 31, 2016, the study was not completed.
Facilities and Infrastructure
There are currently limited facilities or infrastructure located at the project site which mainly includes portable camp structure and drill platforms.
Other Exploration Properties
Our other exploration properties are located in the Province of San Juan. No significant drilling took place during 2016.
SEGMENT: NEVADA
The following map depicts the location of our major properties in Nevada segment, including Gold Bar project and exploration properties which are fully owned by us or subject to joint venture agreements:
The following table summarizes the land position related to our properties in Nevada as of December 31, 2016:
Advanced-stage Properties
Gold Bar Project, Nevada (100% owned)
Overview and History
The Gold Bar project is a proposed mine project which, if constructed, would consist of a conventional open pit mine with an oxide gold heap leach recovery circuit. The property is located within the Battle Mountain - Eureka - Cortez gold trend in Eureka County, central Nevada, and covers an area of 37 sq. miles (97 sq. km) contained in 1,196 claims. The property was previously mined from 1987 to 1994 by Atlas Precious Metals Inc. The Gold Bar project is currently in the permitting phase which commenced in 2012.
On October 27, 2015 we published a Feasibility Study (“FS”) completed by SRK Consulting with a report date of December 3, 2015 and effective date of September 19, 2015. The FS is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com under the Company’s profile, and is subject to the assumptions and conditions set forth therein. Although the FS report is compliant with NI 43-101, the reserves do not comply with SEC Industry Guide 7 because the project is not fully permitted. Based on the FS, initial capital expenditures for the project are estimated at $60.4 million including an allocation of $4.8 million for contingencies.
In January 2016, we executed an agreement with NV Gold Corporation, an unaffiliated corporation, to acquire the Afgan- Kobeh project, now known as Gold Bar South, consisting of 122 mining claims located approximately 3 miles (5 km) from the Gold Bar project. The project’s close proximity to the anticipated Gold Bar processing facility and immediate resource expansion targets presents an opportunity to extend Gold Bar’s mine life at a low cost. The latest technical report completed for Afgan-Kobeh project by Mine Development Associates was issued with a report date of June 13, 2011. Although the technical report is compliant with NI 43-101, it does not comply with SEC Industry Guide 7.
Location and Access
The Gold Bar project is in the Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 30 miles (48 km) northwest of the town of Eureka, Nevada, primarily in Township 22 North, Range 50 East (N39°48’16.5”; W116°21’09.65”). The project site is accessed by traveling 25 miles (40 km) west on US Highway 50 from Eureka, the nearest town. Travel is then 16 miles (26 km) north on the Three Bars Road, a gravel, all-weather road maintained by Eureka County. The project area is approximately 15 miles (24 km) from the end of Three Bars Road, and is accessed through unimproved dirt roads that are not maintained by the county.
Geology and Mineralization
The project is located in the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt in a large window of lower-plate carbonate rocks surrounded by upper-plate rocks. The lower-plate carbonates consist of an east-dipping section of Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation, Devonian Denay Formation, and Devonian Devils Gate Limestone (from oldest to youngest). Northwest-trending and northeast-trending structures cut the area and the project’s mineralization is localized in an apparent northwest-trending horst of McColley Canyon Formation which is cut by a series of northeast-trending structures.
Gold mineralization is hosted primarily in the Bartine Member of the McColley Canyon Formation, which consists of carbonate wackestones and packstones approximately 250 to 380 feet thick. Minor amounts of mineralization are found in the underlying dolomitic limestone Kobeh Member of the McColley Canyon Formation where it is adjacent to apparent feeder structures. The area where the project is located has “Carlin-Type” sediment-hosted gold mineralization characteristics with typical associated alteration (decalcification, silicification) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury, and barium). Carlin-Type deposits are deposits that are restricted to a small part of the North American Cordillera in northern Nevada and northwest Utah.
Three-dimensional modeling by our geologists has led to the identification of an unconformity (erosional surface) between the basement and gold host rocks at the Gold Bar project. Channels in this unconformity were filled with porous limestone, which then acted as preferred pathways for gold mineralization. Much of the gold mineralization in the area occurs in the porous limestone above these channels.
Facilities and Infrastructure
There are currently no facilities or infrastructure located at the project.
Permitting Activities
Since 2012, we have continued to advance the permitting process for construction and production. Since the formal permitting process began, we may not perform any drilling activities within the production area subject to the Plan of Operations (“POO”). During this time, we have continued to advance the Gold Bar project by completing baseline studies in support of the BLM and State of Nevada permitting required for mine development and construction. We also drilled and pump-tested one potential water well location for future mining operations.
We submitted our POO permit application in 2013. The POO was determined complete and the BLM has determined that an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”) is necessary to fulfill the requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”). Upon completion of the EIS, the BLM will be able to proceed with the approval determination of the POO. A third-party consulting firm has been contracted to assist the BLM in the preparation of an EIS for the Gold Bar project. Final permit approval is expected to be obtained by late 2017.
No Proven or Probable Reserves
We have not yet demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves at the Gold Bar Complex as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
Exploration Properties
Tonkin property (100% owned)
The Tonkin property represents our largest holding within the Battle Mountain-Eureka Trend in Eureka County, Nevada at approximately 43 sq. miles (113 sq. km). The Tonkin property consists of the Tonkin Springs deposit and a previously operating Tonkin mine.
From 1985 through 1989, the Tonkin mine produced approximately 30,000 ounces of gold utilizing an oxide heap leach and a separate ball mill involving bioxidation to treat the problematic sulphide ore. Due to cost escalation and recovery issues associated with the refractory and preg-robbing carbonaceous mineralogy, the operation was shut down and not restarted. The mine site is currently placed on care-and-maintenance and the Company continues to advance its reclamation program.
The Company continues to perform the evaluation work with respect to the Tonkin Springs deposit. No significant drilling took place in 2016.
Other Exploration Properties
No significant drilling or exploration activities took place in any of these properties during the year 2016. The Company continues to rationalize its mineral property interests in Nevada in an effort to focus its exploration efforts on prospective areas.
We generally hold mineral interests in Nevada through patented and unpatented lode mining and mill site claims, leases of unpatented mining claims, and joint venture and other agreements. Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the BLM, and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include continuing assessment work, obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits, and lease and option payments to claim owners.
ITEM 3.