ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Introduction
Throughout 2008, we continued to hold a 100% interest in the historic Tonkin property as well as the Nevada Pacific, White Knight and Tone properties acquired in 2007. Our total Nevada land position consists of approximately 271 square miles (702 sq. km), of which approximately 203 square miles (525 sq. km) are located on the Cortez Trend. We also continued to hold approximately 6 square miles (16 sq. km) in Utah, and approximately 1,544 square miles (4,000 sq. km) of mineral rights in Mexico, including the Magistral Gold Mine located in the state of Sinaloa, Mexico. The following table summarizes the US land position of our company as of December 31, 2008:
The following Nevada trend map and property location map is presented to generally indicate the location of the trends and our properties:
For purposes of organizing and describing our exploration efforts in the United States, we have grouped our properties into four complexes, the Tonkin Complex, the Gold Bar Complex, the Limo Complex and the Battle Mountain Complex. Mineral properties outside these areas and where limited exploration work has been performed by us to date are grouped as "Other United States Properties". Certain properties are generally subject to certain royalty and back in rights. Please see the "Other United States Properties" section below for further information.
In addition to the above US properties, we acquired mineral concessions in Mexico from our acquisition of Nevada Pacific in 2007, including the Magistral Mine. The Magistral Mine is located in northwestern Mexico, within Sinaloa state, Mocorito Municipality, Mexico. In addition to the Magistral Mine complex of approximately 38 sq. miles (98 sq. km), we acquired exploration concessions consisting of approximately 1,506 sq. miles (3,902 sq. km) located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa, Nayarit and Durango. In aggregate, we own an interest in approximately 1,544 sq. miles (4,000 sq. km) of mineral concessions in Mexico.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Magistral Mine and surrounding mineral concessions in Mexico:
Tonkin Complex
The Tonkin Complex includes our historic Tonkin property, together with additional properties and interests acquired in 2007. The Tonkin Complex is divided functionally into five areas: the Mine Corridor, Tonkin North, Patty, Keystone, and Tweed. The Tonkin Complex represents our largest holding in the State of Nevada at approximately 93 sq. miles (240 sq. km).
The Tonkin Complex is located on the Cortez Trend, approximately 48 miles (77 km) by road northwest from Eureka, Nevada, 85 miles (137 km) by road southwest from Elko and 245 miles (394 km) by road east from Reno. The nearest commercial airport is located in Elko.
The Tonkin Complex includes a mine site from operations in the 1980's with several small open pits, stockpile areas, plant and established infrastructure. In 1988 and 1989, an integrated carbon-in-leach bacterial oxidation plant was built. The plant and associated infrastructure was decommissioned and put on care and maintenance in June 1990, but apart from the SAG mill, which has been removed, it is complete and we believe it is in relatively good condition. The existing infrastructure also includes a water supply, water storage and distribution, sewage disposal, trailer park, fuel storage and distribution, grid and emergency power supply and distribution. Electrical power is supplied via existing 64kV power lines and a substation on the property. The power lines and substation are owned and maintained by Sierra Pacific Power Company. Existing facilities include an administration building, truck shop, assay laboratory, mill building, warehouse, and plant maintenance shop.
We obtained the first claims which now comprise the Tonkin Complex in 1985. Between 1985 and 1988, we produced approximately 26,000 ounces of gold from the heap leach operation from about 871,000 tons of ore.
In 1988 and 1989, we constructed a mill with the proceeds of a debt financing. In 1989, we processed ore from the "Rooster" deposit, producing 1,753 ounces of gold. In 1990, using bio-oxidation and the carbon-in-leach circuits of the mill, we produced 2,735 additional ounces of gold from approximately 70,000 tons of sulfide ore mined from the property. To date, a total of approximately 30,517 ounces of gold has been produced at the Tonkin property.
Since 1990, we have had a series of joint venture partners at the Tonkin property. These partners include Homestake Mining Company, Sudbury Contact Mines Limited, a subsidiary of Agnico-Eagle Mines Limited, and BacTech Mining Corporation. As a group, these companies conducted various types of exploration, including data compilation, geologic mapping, rock, soil and chemical sampling, and drilling, all focused primarily on the development of near-surface oxide and later, sulfide mineralization. For a variety of reasons, some of which are unknown to us, these relationships were terminated, returning 100% ownership of the property to us in 2005. We commenced a comprehensive drilling program in 2006, following an equity financing.
The following table summarizes drilling at our Tonkin Complex during 2007 and 2008:
As noted in the previous table, drilling on the Tonkin Complex for 2008 totaled 6,785 ft. (2068m) in nine core holes and five RC holes. Additional exploration efforts at the Complex included geologic mapping, sampling and three dimensional modeling. The objective of the 2008 program at the Tonkin Complex was to explore for feeders to the known mineralization in the Mine Corridor, and to test new targets adjacent to the known mineralization identified through our three-dimensional modeling.
The following graphic depicts the Tonkin Complex:
A technical report was completed on the Tonkin property by Ore Reserves Engineering in May 2008. Based on the work summarized in this report, the estimated Tonkin resource (Measured plus Indicated) increased to 1,447,000 ounces of gold contained in 35.6 million tons. The average grade of this resource is 0.041 oz gold/ton. There was also an increase in the inferred resource to 311,000 ounces of gold in 9.3 million tons, averaging 0.033 oz gold/ton.
The report included results from 149 holes drilled by US Gold in 2006-2007. Of these, one hundred were core holes that provided significant new information, greatly expanding our geologic understanding of the property. The new drilling and geologic logging led to the construction of a new three-dimensional model of the district geology, structure, and mineralized zones. Geologic modeling was further aided by new field mapping and age-dating of rock samples. The new drilling also decreased the drill hole spacing and improved the reliability of the resource estimates.
Mineral envelopes for the South and Central deposits were drawn on cross sections at a 0.01 oz/ton cutoff. The cross sectional zones were connected to create three-dimensional shapes. For the North zone, mineralized boundaries were determined by defining a mineralization indicator from 10-foot composites and nearest neighbor interpolation which assigned model blocks to either mineralized or un-mineralized populations. Grade estimation in the block model was done using inverse-distance-power estimation with composited drill hole gold assays. Resource classifications were determined based on drill hole spacing: Measured resources have drill hole spacing of 100 feet or less, Indicated resources have drill hole spacing between 100 and 200 feet and Inferred resources have drill hole spacing between 200 and 300 feet. Blocks with drill hole spacing greater than 300 feet were excluded from classification.
Resource cutoff grades of 0.018 oz gold/ton for sulfide material and 0.012 oz gold/ton for oxide material were utilized to maintain continuity with previously reported estimates. These cutoff grades are equivalent to the internal cutoff grades at $575 gold price and the breakeven cutoff at $700 gold
price, assuming 80 percent recovery for both sulfide and oxide material, and processing costs of $6.27 per ton for sulfide and $3.47 per ton for oxide. Mining costs were assumed to be $1.75 per ton for sulfide ore and $2.00 per ton for oxide ore. Based on these figures, it is believed that the mineralization has reasonable prospects for economic extraction.
This report provides a technical summary of the existing exploration and development activities and results, and the mineral potential of the Tonkin property. This report was prepared in accordance with the standards on mineral resources of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum. As a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, we are required to comply with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (NI 43-101), which requires the preparation of a technical report and includes estimates of potential mineral resources for further targeted exploration disclosed pursuant to the applicable provisions of NI 43-101. However, U.S. reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties are governed by the SEC and included in the SEC's Securities Act Industry Guide 7 entitled "Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or to be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations" ("Guide 7"). NI 43-101 and Guide 7 standards are substantially different. For example, the SEC only permits the disclosure of proven or probable reserves, which in turn, requires the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic feasibility of mining and processing the mineralization. We have not received a feasibility study with regard to our Tonkin property and therefore the Tonkin property has no "reserves" as defined by Guide 7. We cannot be certain that any part of the mineralized material at the Tonkin property will ever be confirmed or converted into Guide 7 compliant "reserves". U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that a potential mineral resource can be economically or legally extracted.
The 2008 exploration program was directed by in-house three-dimensional modeling that utilized surface geology, surface geochemistry, drill hole geochemistry, drill hole geology, drill hole and surface structure, and geophysical surveys. The program consisted of five reverse circulation drill holes totaling 5,235 feet (1596 m) that tested four separate targets. Although none of these holes intersected ore grade mineralization, continuous weakly anomalous gold mineralization (30-200 ppb) was encountered in three of the drill holes, along with anomalous pathfinder elements. The significance of this mineralization is currently being evaluated. Nine core holes totaling 1,550 feet (472 m) were also drilled for metallurgical purposes.
The geology of the Tonkin Complex area is complicated. The primary host for mineralization is the Cambro-Ordovician Hales Formation, which consists of sandy limestones, siltstones, shales, and greenstones in the Mine Corridor area. These rocks are in apparent structural contact with Ordovician rocks of the Vinini Formation, Devonian Slaven Chert, Devonian McColley Canyon Formations and the Devonian Devils Gate Limestone. This assemblage has been intruded locally by Tertiary porphyritic dacite and andesite dikes. All rocks east and west of the Mine Corridor are overlain by Tertiary volcanic rocks. Gold mineralization is found in all of the rock types of the Hales Formation, Slaven Chert, and McColley Canyon Formations, as well as at the contact between internal units. Spotty gold occurs in other units in the Mine Corridor, but it has not been recorded in economic amounts to date.
The Tonkin Complex also includes the Patty Project in which the Company holds a non-operating minority interest (30%) and where Barrick Gold U.S. Inc. ("Barrick") is manager and holds a 60% interest and the remaining 10% is owned by Chapleau Resources Ltd. The Patty Project is a large property (approximately 15.6 sq. miles) located in the northeast portion of the Tonkin Complex and consists of 544 unpatented mining claims. The 2008 exploration program expenditures totaled approximately $197,810, of which our portion was $59,343. The 2009 exploration program is budgeted for $150,000, of which our share is $45,000. The 2009 program includes a detailed project review and target generation. Barrick has indicated that the 2009 program will increase to include exploration drilling as the program develops by mid-year. From discussions with Barrick, we believe that certain of
the gold mineralizing structures being evaluated at Patty could extend on to our other properties located to the north and east of existing mineralization in the Mine Corridor.
In addition to exploration conducted during 2008, we completed the reclamation of certain access roads, and other existing disturbed areas at the Tonkin Complex.
The mineral interests included in the Tonkin Complex are set forth in the following table:
We generally hold mineral interests in the Tonkin Complex through unpatented mining and mill site claims, leases of unpatented mining claims, and joint venture and other agreements. Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits, and lease and option payments to claim owners.
Approximately 348 claims covering the area of the property known as Tonkin North are owned by unaffiliated parties and held by us under a lease agreement. The term of this lease expires January 1, 2011 and may be extended from year to year, up to a maximum of 99 years, by production from or other activities on the leased claims. We believe that current and past exploration are sufficient to hold the lease and the Company has a significant carry-forward work commitment balance.
The lease requires payment of an annual advance royalty in the amount of $187,500 or the value of 568.75 ounces of gold, whichever is greater, due in January of each year. The lease also requires payment of production royalties of 5% of the gross sales price of gold or silver but provides for recapture of annual advance royalties previously paid. The existing balance of the advance royalties paid by us, after taking into account the January 2009 payment, is approximately $4.39 million, meaning that we would not be required to pay any production royalties until we produced approximately $88 million of gross revenue from the leased claims. Our interests in other claims included in the Tonkin Complex are subject to royalties ranging from 1% to 2% of any production from those claims.
Cornerstone Property Lease. The Company holds an undivided portion of the Cornerstone property (156 claims) pursuant to a mining lease made effective as of May 25, 2004 (the "Lease") which extends for a period of 10 years and is renewable in 5-year increments to a maximum term not exceeding 99 years, subject to certain conditions. The lessor has a sliding-scale gross production royalty of 3-4% of gross production in respect to gold and silver, as well as other royalties on other valuable materials. The Lease requires annual minimum advance royalty payments of the greater of $50,000 or the dollar equivalent of 130 ounces of gold. In addition, the Lease requires annual work expenditures of $50,000. We believe that current and past exploration are sufficient to hold the lease and the Company has a carry-forward work commitment balance.
Gold Bar Complex
The Gold Bar Complex is located south of the Tonkin Complex on the continuation of the Cortez Trend. The Gold Bar Complex is in the Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 30 air miles (48 km) northwest of the town of Eureka. The Complex may be accessed by traveling approximately 26 miles (42 km) west of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50, 17 miles (27 km) north on county-maintained and graded Three Bar Road. Several unimproved dirt roads lead from there up into the project area.
The following graphic depicts the Gold Bar Complex:
A technical report to NI 43-101 standards was completed on the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge Project by Telesto Nevada Inc. in November, 2008. This report concludes that the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge property contains an indicated mineral resource of 471,547 ounces of gold in 13,003,988 tons at an average grade of 0.036 oz gold/ton. In addition, Telesto estimates an inferred resource of 94,677 ounces of gold in 2,153,183 tons averaging 0.044 oz gold/ton. This resource is exclusive of the mining done by Atlas Corporation ("Atlas"). During 1991 to 1994, a total of 2,079,000 tons of ore averaging 0.074 oz gold/ton were recovered, producing 133,865 ounces of gold.
The Telesto report is based on 1,369 drill holes from historic Atlas drilling programs and 19 holes drilled by White Knight Resources Ltd. in 2006. Seven of the 1,369 historic Atlas holes were drilled using diamond drill core and the rest were drilled using reverse circulation. A set of east-west cross sections was created at 30-meter intervals. Geologic parameters and gold grades were plotted on the sections. Geologic and structural data from surface mapping was transferred to the sections. Geologic boundaries were rectified between sections and then gold envelopes were drawn to constrain interpolation of grades in the block model. Blocks within the mineral envelopes were assigned to either oxide or reduced categories. Mineralized blocks outside the mineral envelopes were assigned a separate category and were only included in the inferred resource classification. The 2008 exploration drilling
discussed below was in progress during preparation of the technical report, so the 2008 drill results were not incorporated in the technical report.
The following table summarizes drilling at our Gold Bar Complex during 2007 and 2008:
Exploration drilling at the Gold Bar Complex in 2008 totaled approximately 14,375 ft. (4,382 m) in 20 reverse circulation drill holes, that focused on extensions to the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge and Cabin Creek mineralization. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling were also conducted on the property. Detailed cross-sections were constructed to define mineralization shells during preparation for the resource analysis. This led to the identification of several unexplored and underexplored mineralization trends.
The 2008 drilling focused on these trends and continued to expand the gold mineralization. The best intercepts from this drilling are shown below:
The Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs in a large window of lower-plate carbonate rocks surrounded by upper-plate rocks on the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt. The lower-plate carbonates at Gold Pick-Gold Ridge consist of an east-dipping section of Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation, Devonian Denay Formation, and Devonian Devils Gate Limestone (from oldest to youngest). Northwest-trending and northeast-trending structures cut the area; the Gold Pick resource is localized in an apparent northwest-trending horst of McColley Canyon Formation which is cut by a series of northeast-trending structures.
Gold mineralization is hosted primarily in the Bartine Member of the McColley Canyon Formation, which consists of carbonate wackestones and packstones approximately 250 to 380 feet thick. Minor amounts of mineralization are found in the underlying dolomitic limestone Kobeh Member of the McColley Canyon Formation when it is adjacent to apparent feeder structures. Gold Pick-Gold Ridge is a "Carlin-Type" sediment-hosted gold resource with typical associated alteration (decalcification, silicification) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury, and barium).
Geochemical data from soil sampling reveal linear features trending to the NE and SE that parallel geologic structures near the historically mined Gold Pick and Gold Canyon open pits. A NW-SE photo linear has also been identified that appears to link the existing resources. Surface sampling southeast of the current resources along this linear has identified three areas of anomalous gold with little or no historic drilling. A three-dimensional model has been generated for Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area. This model will guide the 2009 exploration drilling.
Exploration in 2008 was conducted under various BLM Notices of Intent. All disturbances were reclaimed and unutilized disturbance is available for 2009 exploration drilling.
Mineral interests included in the Gold Bar Complex are set forth in the following table:
Limo Property
The Limo Property is located in east-central Nevada, along the eastern portion of Butte Valley and along the western edge of the Cherry Creek Range. It is located about 40 miles northwest of Ely, the county seat of White Pine County, at the southern end of the Carlin Trend.
The project area lies between the historic Cherry Creek Mining District to the northeast and the deeply buried Butte Valley copper-molybdenum porphyry deposit to the southwest. The northeast-trending Black Metals fault system stretches between the two areas, and controls mineralization along its 15 mile (24 km) length. Access is gained from US Highway 93 via the town of Cherry Creek, and from US 50 via the Thirty Mile gravel road. Except for periods of heavy snowfall or excessive mud, the property is accessible most of the year.
At the time acquisition (2007), the Limo Property was a large, 30 sq. mile (78 sq. km) property with historic production of approximately 93,000 ounces of gold. With additional claim staking in 2007 and 2008, the property position now totals approximately 44 sq. miles (114 sq km). We consider this property to be highly prospective. Gold mineralization has been identified in numerous places along the 15 mile (24 km) length of the property.
Gold mineralization at the Limo Complex is localized along northeast- and northwest- trending fault zones, where favorable calcareous beds have been replaced within the Devonian-Mississippian Pilot and the Mississippian Chainman formations. The mineralization is "Carlin-style", with its associated alteration (decalcification, silicification, and argillization) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury and barium) suites.
The following graphic depicts the Limo Complex:
Work during 2008 at the Limo Complex focused on detailed cross-section evaluation to define mineralization shells, controls, and trends, in preparation for a resource evaluation. Several trends were identified through this process that will guide future exploration. A three-dimensional model will also be constructed in 2009 to further guide future exploration.
Recoveries from historic mining and preliminary metallurgical tests conducted on 2007 drill core indicate that mineralization at the Limo Complex is primarily oxide in nature and amenable to current heap-leach technology.
Historic mining by third parties at the Golden Butte pit within the Limo Complex produced approximately 91,000 ounces of gold from 1987-1989. Subsequent exploration has resulted in the discovery of the North Butte resource and a zone of higher grade structures at nearby Resurrection
Ridge. Gold occurrences along the claim block have resulted in the discovery of several potential resource areas.
The mineral interests controlled by us in the Limo property consist of approximately 1,396 contiguous claims that cover approximately 44 square miles (114 sq km). The land package extends for about 15 miles (24 km), and covers much of the western side of the southern Cherry Creek Range.
The Limo Property was previously subject to a joint venture between Nevada Pacific and Newmont Gold Company ("Newmont"), and in March 2003, Nevada Pacific acquired Newmont's interest in return for a sliding scale (1.5% to 2.5%) net smelter return royalty on all production from the property and from any claim acquired by Nevada Pacific within one mile of the property, with an advance payment to Newmont of $1.0 million to be made at the commencement of commercial production and credited against future royalty payments. Newmont has subsequently assigned this royalty interest to Franco-Nevada Corporation.
US Gold previously had four exploration permits (Notices of Intent) within the Limousine Butte project area. In 2008, US Gold submitted to the BLM a Plan of Operation that proposed a drill program within the project area. The Plan requested an additional 72 acres of disturbance that is yet to be determined on a site-specific basis. The Plan of Operation was approved in August and a reclamation bond was submitted to, and accepted by, state and federal regulatory authorities.
Battle Mountain Complex
In conjunction with the Acquisitions in 2007, we acquired various property interests which have been grouped under the designation "Battle Mountain Complex." The Battle Mountain Complex is generally located within Humboldt and Lander Counties in the valleys and on the flanks of the mountains surrounding Battle Mountain on the Cortez Trend north of our Tonkin complex. Battle Mountain, Nevada, located off Interstate 80, is the closest town.
The following graphic depicts the Battle Mountain Complex:
Additional exploration drilling may be planned in 2009 for the Valmy and Hits projects, as well as other targets in the Battle Mountain Complex.
The general exploration model for the Battle Mountain Complex is Carlin-style mineralization contained in structurally-controlled, intrusive-related, quartz-adularia-sericite, low-sulfidation deposits, and/or skarn mineralization similar to the nearby Phoenix and Nike/Converse deposits.
The mineral interests included in the Battle Mountain Complex are set forth in the following table:
Other United States Properties
Through the Acquisitions completed during 2007, we acquired a number of mineral properties in Nevada and one mineral property in Utah, some of which are subject to option agreements as discussed further below.
Mineral interests included in Other Properties are set forth in the following table:
Bat Ridge,Utah. The Bat Ridge Project is located 11 miles (18 km) NNW of Milford, Utah and consists of approximately 6 sq. miles (16 sq. km) of both unpatented and patented claims and one State school section in T26S, R11W in Beaver County, Utah. The property is situated just east of Lime Mountain in the Beaver Lake Mountains. Gold, silver and copper mineralization occurs in skarn developed within limestones adjacent to the granite intrusive contact. Historic surface sampling returned high grade gold and copper values which will be tested by a small drill program slated for early 2009.
Royalty and Back In Rights. The mineral properties included in the acquisition of Tone (Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone, Big Antelope Springs, Red Ridge, Fish Creek and Kent Springs) are generally subject to a 1% net smelter return royalty interest in favor of KM Exploration Ltd, a Nevada limited liability company. Certain properties (Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone and Big Antelope Springs) are also subject to back-in rights in favor of Teck Cominco American Incorporated ("Teck"), pursuant to a 2004 Financing and Acquisition Agreement. Teck generally has the right to acquire a 50% joint venture interest in certain properties by spending approximately $2.84 million on each property after Tone has first spent an aggregate of $0.94 million on each property, or up to 70% joint venture interest upon other elections by Teck and performance of other obligations. Teck also has certain first rights if the Company determines to sell the Red Ridge property. Through December 31, 2008, we had not reached the initial required expenditure on any property subject to the Teck agreement and that agreement is limited to earn-in rights to a maximum of two of the mineral properties.
New Pass and Squaw Creek. In 2004, White Knight entered into an option agreement on the New Pass and Squaw Creek properties with Consolidated Odyssey Exploration Inc. ("Odyssey") whereby Odyssey may earn an initial 50% interest in each property. To earn this, Odyssey needs to provide cash payments to White Knight of $500,000, 500,000 of its common shares per property (which have been paid) and spend $2,000,000 in exploration expenditures per property over a four-year period. Odyssey may earn an additional 10% interest in each property by financing the completion of a feasibility study. Subsequently, Odyssey assigned all its rights under the option agreement to Bonaventure Enterprises Inc., a Canadian corporation ("Bonaventure") on September 30, 2005. Bonaventure's exploration expenditures reached the $2,000,000 earn-in mark during 2008 and they have now earned a
50% interest in the both the New Pass and Squaw Creek properties. According to the original option agreement, Bonaventure will be the operator of the newly formed joint venture. Bonaventure did not complete the requirements to earn an additional 10% interest in the property.
Mexican Properties
The Company has property in Mexico which includes the Magistral Mine Property, The Palmarito Project and the El Gallo Project. The Magistral Mine Property, located in Sinaloa State, produced approximately 70,000 ounces of gold from 2002-2005 before it was shut down due to higher than anticipated operating costs and a lack of working capital when gold was approximately $400 per ounce. In late 2006, the Magistral mine was placed on a care and maintenance basis.
Including the projects discussed above, we control mineral concessions of approximately 1,544 sq. miles (4,000 sq. km) located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa, Nayarit and Durango. We hold our interests through ownership of Pangea Resources Inc. which in turn holds 100 percent ownership of Compania Minera Pangea S.A. de C.V. ("Minera Pangea"). The titles are granted under Mexican mining law and are issued by Secretaria de Economía, Coordinación General de Mineria, Dirección General de Minas (Dirección de Minas).
The following map depicts the location of the Magistral Mine Property, Palmarito and El Gallo, along with the other exploration concessions in the immediate area.
Magistral Mine Property
The Magistral Mine property consists of 38 sq. miles (98 sq. km) of mineral concessions located in the Sinaloa state, of northwestern Mexico in Mocorito Municipality. The project is located approximately 62 miles (100 km) by air northwest of the Sinaloa state capital city of Culiacán in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range. The project area is located approximately 14 miles (22 km) northeast from the village of Mocorito, approximately 25 miles (40 km) northeast from the town of Guamuchil, and approximately 93 miles (150 km) southeast from the city of Los Mochis. It is a former producing open pit mining operation, with heap leach processing facilities, that until July 2005, was operating at a production rate of 900,000 ore tonnes per year. Past production
has primarily come from the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits, with the San Rafael deposit being completely mined out.
During 2008, core and reverse circulation drilling at Magistral totaled approximately 24,099 ft. (7,345 m) with the objective of confirming and then extending the known mineralization in two principal areas referred to as La Prieta and Lupita . Drilling successfully accomplished both objectives. The most significant results from this drilling were:
Additional conventional rotary drilling was carried out in 2008 at several targets immediately surrounding the Magistral Mine Property, including Samaniego, San Rafael, Lucy, Cerritos and Dos Amigos. Encouraging mineralization was discovered in most of the target areas, but more work is required to establish the ultimate potential of these areas.
Metallurgical testing at Magistral was also performed on several known zones of mineralization in 2008. Previous operators of the Magistral Mine Property typically experienced lower gold recoveries than were estimated in the original feasibility study. The work performed by US Gold in 2008 was designed to reevaluate the earlier metallurgical test work. Additional work completed by US Gold revealed several items that may have contributed to the poor gold recoveries during commercial production. US Gold concluded that the Magistral Mine's heap leach process method should have been supplemented with a mill in order to process the higher-grade mineralization that was commonly found throughout the mineralized material.
The mineralization at the Magistral Mine Property is classified as epithermal silver and base metal veins. The presence of biotite and K-feldspar, the lack of clay minerals, and the overprint of biotite by chlorite indicate that these veins were formed deep in the epithermal system. The main alteration and assemblages consist of quartz-chlorite/biotite-hematite, and minor sulphides.
Mineralization within the various deposits of the Magistral Mine Property mine area is generally very similar, with the individual structural zones consisting of stockwork, breccia, and locally quartz vein mineralization occurring within sheared, broken, and propylitically altered volcanic rocks.
Modern exploration activities at the Magistral Mine Property started in early 1995, initially for Mogul Mining NL and subsequently for Santa Cruz Gold Inc. From mid-1995 to early 1997, extensive drilling was conducted by Minera Pangea/Santa Cruz Gold on the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill
deposit areas, as well as locally extensive drilling on the Sagrado Corazón-Central-Lupita deposit area. In 1998, Santa Cruz conducted a limited amount of additional drilling for metallurgical samples, reverse circulation grade verification, in-fill purposes, and condemnation of potential surface facility locations. In 1999, after a merger with Santa Cruz Gold, Queenstake conducted a limited drilling program to step-out/in-fill drill in the Samaniego Hill deposit and to obtain pit-slope geotechnical samples from both the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits. Queenstake conducted a drilling campaign from late 2001 to early 2002 in the La Prieta Zone of the Samaniego Hill deposit to delineate extensions of the high grade La Prieta zone along strike and down dip.
The Magistral Mine Property includes infrastructure associated with heap leach operations at the mine site and is currently used as our base for exploration. Infrastructure at Magistral includes offices and process buildings, as well as a heavy equipment maintenance shop and warehouse. An in-house laboratory has the capacity for fire assays along with atomic absorption, and includes a standard metallurgical testing facility. Telecommunications are provided by a microwave system that supplies modern telephone and internet service. The process plant includes a carbon circuit with a capacity of 12 tons of activated carbon. The gold recovery system includes a zinc precipitation circuit. The plant is powered by four 175 kW diesel generators. The heavy fleet of used equipment includes 4 CAT 777B haul trucks, 5 Euclid R-50 trucks, as well as various loaders, excavators, bulldozers and conventional rotary drills.
Care and Maintenance. In October 2006, the mine was placed on care and maintenance. Mining equipment remains parked but is maintained by mine staff. The pumping of solutions and operation of other plant equipment will continue on an "as needed" basis to maintain safe pond levels and to ensure that the plant equipment can be returned to service when and if a decision to restart the mine is made. Staffing levels have been maintained to the minimum required for these efforts and also to support exploration in the mine area.
Royalties. The Repadre Capital Corporation (owned by IAMGOLD Corporation) holds a net smelter return (NSR) royalty based upon the quantity of gold produced by the project. For production up to 30,000 ounces, a 1.5 percent royalty is due. For production between 30,000 and 350,000 ounces, a royalty of 3.5 percent is required. Above 350,000 ounces the royalty drops to 1 percent. Since the mine has already produced more the 30,000 ounces the 1.5 percent royalty is no longer in effect and all future production up to the 350,000 ounce level will be subject to the 3.5 percent royalty rate.
The following map depicts the key mineralized areas at the Magistral Mine property and surface facilities
Palmarito Project
The Palmarito Project is located 7.5 miles (12 km) southwest of US Gold's Magistral Mine in Sinaloa state. Palmarito is one of Sinaloa's major historic producers of silver. Total production is estimated to be 15,300,000 ounces of silver and 49,250 ounces of gold from open pit and underground workings before mining ceased in 1950.
During 2008 US Gold signed an option agreement to buy 100 percent of a third party concession containing 0.5 sq. miles (1 sq. km) in the Palmarito area which brought the immediate project area to a total of approximately 3 sq. miles (8 sq. km). The option agreement provides US Gold with the right to purchase the 2 percent NSR royalty for US$ 1 million during the option agreement and up to 12 months thereafter.
Core, reverse circulation and conventional rotary drilling totaled approximately 29,232 ft. (8,910 m) in 2008 with the objective of extending the known mineralized zone, which was successfully achieved. A NI 43-101 compliant technical report was completed at the Palmarito Project by Pincock, Allen & Holt (PAH) in December 2008. The report estimates that the measured and indicated resources for the Palmarito Silver Project consist of 8.5 million troy ounces of contained silver and 16,500 troy ounces of contained gold within 3.8 million tonnes of material with an average grade of 70 grams silver per tonne and 0.14 grams gold per tonne, using a cut-off grade of 40 grams silver per tonne. Additionally, 3.3 million troy ounces of contained silver and 5,800 troy ounces of contained gold within 1.6 million tonnes of material averaging 65.5 grams silver per tonne and 0.11 grams gold per tonne were defined as inferred resources, using a cut-off grade of 40 grams silver per tonne.
The geologic resources for Palmarito were divided in three categories: (a) In Situ, material undisturbed by past mining activity; (b) Dump, material that was mined in the past but not processed; and (c) Tailings, material from the previous processing operations. PAH defined finite volumes to restrict the boundaries of the resource estimate for each of the different categories. A three-dimensional block model was created for each material category and composited assay data for the drill holes and pits were used to populate them with silver and gold grades.
In situ material as well as dump and tailings material was included in the resource estimate, with approximately 95% of the measured, indicated and inferred resources coming from the in situ deposit and the remaining approximately 5% coming from the historic dump and tailings pond. The PAH estimate was based on 369 historic and recent drill holes drilled by three different companies, Lluvia de Oro (1994-1995), Nevada Pacific Gold (2006-2007) and US Gold (2008). Of the 369 holes used in the estimate, 105 were done by reverse circulation, (74 of which were drilled by Lluvia de Oro and 31 by US Gold); 27 were core holes (19 drilled by Nevada Pacific Gold and 8 by US Gold). The remaining 237 holes were drilled by US Gold by conventional rotary methods and were exclusively used to model and define the resource estimate of the historic mine tailings.
For the in situ material, the grade interpolation was restricted to a thin tabular zone defined by drill holes, with the top and bottom contacts of the zone interpreted along a series of vertical sections running parallel to the dip direction of the deposit, using a grade limit of 10 grams (0.32 troy ounces) silver per tonne. The contacts were then interpreted in 10-meter-spaced plan views to generate contour maps of the top and bottom of the mineralized zone. A three-dimensional solid resulted from creating and stitching surface triangulations of each of the contour maps. Because the resulting three-dimensional model was a tabular zone of variable thickness taking the shape of a folded antiform plunging to the northeast, the grade modeling could not be accomplished with the software used by PAH, and the solid was divided in three domains to be modeled separately: North Limb, Nose, and South Limb. Grade modeling for the in situ material was restricted to blocks that were at least partially within the defined envelope. Silver grades were interpolated for qualified blocks using ordinary kriging, while gold grades were interpolated using the inverse distance to the second power (ID2) interpolation algorithm.
For the modeling of the dump, PAH established the top, bottom and the horizontal boundaries of the Dump material, and defined the boundaries between six different lifts interpreted from a detailed topographic mapping done after a survey conducted in 2008. Grade modeling for the Dump material was restricted to those blocks that had at least 50 percent of their volume contained within the mineralized domains. Silver and gold grades were interpolated using the ID2 power interpolation algorithm.
Sample grades analysis of the Tailings material indicated a high grade population and a low grade population which helped define two domains. Conventional rotary percussion drill holes drilled during 2008 were used to differentiate the two domains using a silver grade of 40 grams per tonne as the boundary between both domains. PAH then established the top, bottom and horizontal boundaries of
the Tailing material. Grade modeling for the tailings material was restricted to those blocks that were at least 50 percent contained within the mineralized domains. Both silver and gold grades were interpolated using the ID2 interpolation algorithm.
The most significant results from the 2008 drilling included:
Additional conventional rotary drilling was carried out in the latter part of 2008 on what is now known as the Southwest Zone. Follow up core drilling at this new zone began during the early part of 2009.
The following map depicts the concessions that are 100% owned by US Gold and those where the Company has an option to earn a 100% interest:
Palmarito is a low-sulfidation, epithermal silver deposit and these deposit types occur commonly throughout the Sierra Madres in Mexico. Known mineralization at Palmarito occurs along or near the northeastern intrusive contact where the structures forming the intrusive contact strike roughly E-W and N-S. Near surface, these structures are mineralized, forming a horseshoe-shaped zone which wraps around the margin of the intrusive. Commonly, strongly silicified and stockwork-veined andesite occurs above and below the breccia at the contact. The breccias consist of clast-supported, coarse angular fragments of rhyolite and fine- to medium-grained andesite. Clasts are cemented by fine-grained, white silica. Generally, Palmarito mineralization is characterized by strong silicification.
El Gallo Project
The El Gallo Project is located 3.0 miles (4.8 km) north of the Magistral Mine property and has become a high-priority for US Gold after high grade silver mineralization was discovered during the fall of 2008. The project is situated in the middle of US Gold's large Magistral District land package.
Exploration completed in 2008 consisted mainly of geochemical surface sampling and conventional rotary drilling. US Gold plans to begin began an extensive core drilling program in 2009 in order to better define the mineralization and test for potential at depth.
ITEM 3.