ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Introduction
Throughout 2009, we continued to hold a 100% interest in the historic Tonkin property and have begun the process of rationalizing the Nevada Pacific, White Knight and Tone properties acquired in 2007. Our total Nevada land position consists of approximately 260 square miles (673 sq. km), of which approximately 199 square miles (515 sq. km) are located on the Cortez Trend. We also continued to hold approximately 1,395 square miles (3,613 sq. km) of mineral rights in Mexico, including the Magistral Gold Mine located in the state of Sinaloa, Mexico.
The following table summarizes the U.S. land position of our company as of December 31, 2009:
The following Nevada trend map and property location map is presented to generally indicate the location of the trends and our properties:
For purposes of organizing and describing our exploration efforts in the United States, we have grouped our properties into four complexes, the Tonkin Complex, the Gold Bar Complex, the Limo Complex and the Battle Mountain Complex. Mineral properties outside these areas and where limited exploration work has been performed by us to date are grouped as "Other United States Properties". Certain properties are subject to certain royalty and earn-in rights. Please see the "Other United States Properties" section below for further information.
In addition to the above-mentioned U.S. properties, we acquired mineral concessions in Mexico from our acquisition of Nevada Pacific in 2007, including the Magistral Mine. The Magistral Mine is located in northwestern Mexico, within Sinaloa state, Mocorito Municipality, Mexico. In addition to the Magistral Mine complex of approximately 38 sq. miles (98 sq. km), we acquired exploration concessions consisting of approximately 1,513 sq. miles (3,919 sq. km) located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa, Nayarit and Durango. In 2009, we began a closer examination of our Mexico properties and as a result we released our concessions in the state of Durango. In aggregate, we currently own an interest in approximately 1,395 sq. miles (3,613 sq. km) of mineral concessions in Mexico.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Magistral Mine and our mineral concessions in Mexico:
Tonkin Complex
Overview. The Tonkin Complex includes our historic Tonkin property, together with additional properties and interests acquired in 2007. The Tonkin Complex is divided functionally into five areas: the Mine Corridor, Tonkin North, Patty, Keystone, and Tweed. The Tonkin Complex represents our largest holding in the State of Nevada at approximately 93 sq. miles (241 sq. km).
Location. The Tonkin Complex is located on the Cortez Trend, approximately 48 miles (77 km) by road northwest from Eureka, Nevada, 85 miles (137 km) by road southwest from Elko and 245 miles (394 km) by road east from Reno. The nearest commercial airport is located in Elko.
Infrastructure. The Tonkin Complex includes a mine site from operations in the 1980's with several small open pits, stockpile areas, plant and established infrastructure. In 1988 and 1989, an integrated carbon-in-leach bacterial oxidation plant was built. The plant and associated infrastructure was decommissioned and put on care and maintenance in June 1990, but apart from the SAG mill, which has been removed, it is complete and we believe it is in relatively good condition. The existing infrastructure also includes a water supply, water storage and distribution, sewage disposal, trailer park, fuel storage and distribution, grid and emergency power supply and distribution. Electrical power is supplied via existing 64kV power lines and a substation on the property. The power lines and substation are owned and maintained by Sierra Pacific Power Company. Existing facilities include an administration building, truck shop, assay laboratory, mill building, warehouse, and plant maintenance shop.
History. We obtained the first claims which now comprise the Tonkin Complex in 1985. Between 1985 and 1988, we produced approximately 26,000 ounces of gold from the heap leach operation from about 871,000 tons of ore.
In 1988 and 1989, we constructed a mill with the proceeds of a debt financing. In 1989, we processed ore from the "Rooster" deposit, producing 1,753 ounces of gold. In 1990, using bio-oxidation and the carbon-in-leach circuits of the mill, we produced 2,735 additional ounces of gold from approximately 70,000 tons of sulfide ore mined from the property. To date, a total of approximately 30,517 ounces of gold has been produced at the Tonkin property.
Since 1990, we have had a series of joint venture partners at the Tonkin property. These partners include Homestake Mining Company, Sudbury Contact Mines Limited, a subsidiary of Agnico-Eagle Mines Limited, and BacTech Mining Corporation. As a group, these companies conducted various types of exploration, including data compilation, geologic mapping, rock, soil and chemical sampling, and drilling, all focused primarily on the development of near-surface oxide and later, sulfide mineralization. For a variety of reasons, some of which are unknown to us, these relationships were terminated, returning 100% ownership of the property to us in 2005. We commenced a comprehensive drilling program in 2006, following an equity financing.
Recent Exploration. The following table summarizes drilling at our Tonkin Complex during 2008 and 2009:
As noted in the previous table, drilling on the Tonkin Complex for 2009 totaled 4,890 ft. (1,490 m) in three reverse circulation drill holes. Additional exploration efforts at the Complex included geologic mapping and sampling. The objective of the 2009 program at the Tonkin Complex was to explore for feeders to the known mineralization in the North Mine Corridor area, testing new targets adjacent to the known mineralization identified through our three-dimensional modeling completed in 2008.
The following graphic depicts the Tonkin Complex:
During 2008, a technical report completed on the Tonkin property concluded that mineralized material totals 35.6 million tons with an average grade of 0.041 oz gold/ton. Mineralized material cutoff grades were 0.018 oz gold/ton for sulfide and 0.012 oz gold/ton for oxide. This report provides a technical summary of the existing exploration and development activities and results, and the mineral potential of the Tonkin property. It was prepared in accordance with the standards on mineral resources of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum. As a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, we are required to comply with NI 43-101, which requires the preparation of a technical report and includes estimates of potential mineral resources for further targeted exploration disclosed pursuant to the applicable provisions of NI 43-101. However, U.S. reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties are governed by the SEC and included in the SEC's Securities Act Industry Guide 7 entitled "Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or to be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations" ("Guide 7"). NI 43-101 and Guide 7 standards are substantially different. For example, the SEC only permits the disclosure of proven or probable reserves, which in turn, requires the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic and legal feasibility of mining and processing the mineralization. We have not received a feasibility study with regard to our Tonkin property and therefore the Tonkin property has no "reserves" as defined by Guide 7. We cannot be certain that any part of the mineralized material at the Tonkin property will ever be confirmed or converted into Guide 7 compliant "reserves". U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that any of the mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
The 2009 exploration program at Tonkin was directed by in-house three-dimensional modeling that utilized surface geology, surface geochemistry, drill hole geochemistry, drill hole geology, drill hole and surface structure, and geophysical surveys. The program consisted of three reverse circulation drill holes totaling 4,890 feet (1,490 m) that tested three separate targets in the north area. Although none of these holes intersected ore grade mineralization, two contained weakly anomalous gold mineralization
(30-245 ppb) with anomalous pathfinder elements. The significance of this mineralization is currently being evaluated.
Geology. The geology of the Tonkin Complex area is complicated. The primary host for mineralization is the Cambro-Ordovician Hales Formation, which consists of sandy limestones, siltstones, shales, and greenstones in the Mine Corridor area. These rocks are in apparent structural contact with Ordovician rocks of the Vinini Formation, Devonian Slaven Chert, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation and the Devonian Devils Gate Limestone. This assemblage has been intruded locally by Tertiary porphyritic dacite and andesite dikes. All rocks east and west of the Mine Corridor are overlain by Tertiary volcanic rocks. Gold mineralization is found in all of the rock types of the Hales Formation, Slaven Chert, and McColley Canyon Formation, as well as at the contact between internal units. Spotty gold occurs in other units in the Mine Corridor, but it has not been recorded in economic amounts to date.
Patty Project. The Tonkin Complex also includes the Patty Project, in which the Company holds a non-operating minority interest (30%) and where Barrick Gold U.S. Inc. ("Barrick") is manager and holds a 60% interest and the remaining 10% is owned by Chapleau Resources Ltd. The Patty Project is a large property (approximately 18.1 sq. miles) located in the northeast portion of the Tonkin Complex and consists of 544 unpatented mining claims. The 2009 exploration program expenditures totaled approximately $225,777, of which our portion was $67,733. In November 2009, Barrick informed us that it intended to cease management of the exploration program. An amendment to the joint venture agreement would need to be executed should that occur.
In addition to exploration conducted during 2009, we completed the reclamation of certain access roads, and other existing disturbed areas at the Tonkin Complex.
The mineral interests included in the Tonkin Complex are set forth in the following table:
We generally hold mineral interests in the Tonkin Complex through unpatented mining and mill site claims, leases of unpatented mining claims, and joint venture and other agreements. Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the BLM, and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits, and lease and option payments to claim owners.
Tonkin North. The 372 claims covering the area of the property known as Tonkin North are owned by unaffiliated parties and held by us under a lease agreement. The term of this lease expires January 1, 2011 and may be extended from year to year, up to a maximum of 99 years, by production from or other activities on the leased claims. We believe that current and past exploration are sufficient to hold the lease and the Company has a significant carry-forward work commitment balance.
The lease requires payment of an annual advance royalty in the amount of $187,500 or the value of 568.75 ounces of gold, whichever is greater, due in January of each year. The lease also requires payment of production royalties of 5% of the gross sales price of gold or silver but provides for recapture of annual advance royalties previously paid. The existing balance of the advance royalties paid by us, after taking into account the January 2010 payment, is approximately $5.03 million, meaning that we would not be required to pay any production royalties until we produced approximately $101 million of gross revenue from the leased claims. Our interests in other claims included in the Tonkin Complex are subject to royalties ranging from 1% to 2% of any production from those claims.
Cornerstone Property Lease. The Company holds an interest in the Cornerstone property (106 claims) pursuant to a mining lease made effective as of May 25, 2004 (the "Lease") which extends for a period of 10 years and is renewable in 5-year increments to a maximum term not exceeding 99 years, subject to certain conditions. The lessor has a sliding-scale gross production royalty of 3-4% of gross production in respect to gold and silver, as well as other royalties on other valuable materials. The Lease requires annual minimum advance royalty payments of the greater of $50,000 or the dollar equivalent of 130 ounces of gold. In addition, the Lease requires annual work expenditures of $50,000. We believe that current and past exploration are sufficient to hold the lease and the Company has a carry-forward work commitment balance.
Gold Bar Complex
The Gold Bar Complex is located south of the Tonkin Complex on the continuation of the Cortez Trend. The Gold Bar Complex is in the Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 30 miles (48 km) northwest of the town of Eureka. The Complex may be accessed by traveling approximately 26 miles (42 km) west of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50, 17 miles (27 km) north on county-maintained and graded Three Bar Road. Several unimproved dirt roads lead from there up into the project area.
The following graphic depicts the Gold Bar Complex:
An updated technical report completed to NI 43-101 standards was completed for the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge Project by Telesto Nevada Inc. in April 2009. This report concludes that the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge property contains mineralized material of 21,482,600 tons at an average grade of 0.032 oz gold/ton. During 1991 to 1994, a total of 2,079,000 tons of ore averaging 0.074 oz gold/ton were recovered by a former owner of the property, producing 133,865 ounces of gold.
The Telesto report is based on 1,369 drill holes from historic Atlas drilling programs, 19 holes drilled in 2005-2006 by White Knight Resources Ltd., and 20 holes drilled by the Company in 2008. Seven of the 1,369 historic Atlas holes were drilled using diamond drill core and the rest were drilled using reverse circulation. A set of east-west cross sections was created at 30-meter intervals incorporating updated lithology and alteration features along with 3D modeling techniques. Geologic parameters and gold grades were plotted on the sections. Geologic and structural data from surface mapping was transferred to the sections. Geologic boundaries were rectified between sections and then gold envelopes were drawn to constrain interpolation of grades in the block model. Blocks within the mineral envelopes were assigned to either oxide or reduced categories. The 2009 exploration drilling discussed below was conducted subsequent to preparation of the technical report, so the 2009 drill results were not incorporated in the technical report.
The updated technical report also included an estimate for the Cabin Creek Project located just east of the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge Project. The report concludes the Cabin Creek Property contains mineralized material of 3,174,000 tons at an average grade of 0.024 oz gold/ton. No mining has been done on the Cabin Creek Project. Modeling the Cabin Creek estimate employed essentially the same procedures described above for the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge estimate. The Cabin Creek estimate is based on 165 reverse circulation drill holes.
The following table summarizes drilling at our Gold Bar Complex during 2008 and 2009:
Exploration drilling at the Gold Bar Complex in 2009 totaled approximately 71,510 ft. (21,796 m) in 109 reverse circulation drill holes that were focused on extensions to the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge and Cabin Creek mineralization. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling were also conducted on the property. Exploration drilling was guided by the detailed cross-sections that were constructed to define mineralization during preparation of the mineralized material analysis.
The 2009 drilling focused on these trends and continued to expand the gold mineralization. The best intercepts from this drilling are shown below:
The Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs on the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt in a large window of lower-plate carbonate rocks surrounded by upper-plate rocks. The lower-plate carbonates at Gold Pick-Gold Ridge consist of an east-dipping section of Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation, Devonian Denay Formation, and Devonian Devils Gate Limestone (from oldest to youngest). Northwest-trending and northeast-trending structures cut the area; the Gold Pick mineralization is localized in an apparent northwest-trending horst of McColley Canyon Formation which is cut by a series of northeast-trending structures.
Gold mineralization is hosted primarily in the Bartine Member of the McColley Canyon Formation, which consists of carbonate wackestones and packstones approximately 250 to 380 feet thick. Minor amounts of mineralization are found in the underlying dolomitic limestone Kobeh Member of the McColley Canyon Formation when it is adjacent to apparent feeder structures. Gold Pick-Gold Ridge is "Carlin-Type" sediment-hosted gold mineralization with typical associated alteration (decalcification, silicification) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury, and barium).
Three-dimensional modeling by our geologists has led to the identification of an unconformity (erosional surface) between the basement and gold host rocks at the Gold Bar Project. Channels in this unconformity were filled with porous limestone, which then acted as preferred pathways for gold mineralization. Most of the gold mineralization in the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs in the porous limestones above these channels. Additional channels in this area are also targets for exploration in 2010.
Exploration in 2009 was conducted under various BLM Notices of Intent. All disturbances were reclaimed as per BLM regulation.
Mineral interests included in the Gold Bar Complex are set forth in the following table:
Limo Property
The Limo Property is located in east-central Nevada, along the eastern portion of Butte Valley and along the western edge of the Cherry Creek Range. It is located about 40 miles northwest of Ely, the county seat of White Pine County, at the southern end of the Carlin Trend.
The project area lies between the historic Cherry Creek Mining District to the northeast and the deeply buried Butte Valley copper-molybdenum porphyry deposit to the southwest. The northeast-trending Black Metals fault system stretches between the two areas, and controls mineralization along its 15 mile (24 km) length. Access is gained from US Highway 93 via the town of Cherry Creek, and from US 50 via the Thirty Mile gravel road. Except for periods of heavy snowfall or excessive mud, the property is accessible most of the year.
When the Limo Property was acquired in 2007, it was a large, 30 sq. mile (78 sq. km) property with historic production of approximately 93,000 ounces of gold. With additional claim staking in 2007 and 2008, the property position now totals approximately 44 sq. miles (114 sq km). We consider this property to be highly prospective. Gold mineralization has been identified in numerous places along the 15 mile (24 km) length of the property.
Gold mineralization at the Limo Complex is localized along northeast- and northwest- trending fault zones, where favorable calcareous beds have been replaced within the Devonian-Mississippian Pilot and the Mississippian Chainman formations. The mineralization is "Carlin-style", with its associated alteration (decalcification, silicification, and argillization) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury and barium) suites.
The following graphic depicts the Limo Complex:
A technical report compliant with NI 43-101 standards was completed on the Limo Project by Telesto Nevada Inc. in July 2009. This report concludes that the Resurrection Ridge/Golden Butte area of the Limo property contains mineralized material of 8,969,000 tons at an average grade of 0.023 oz gold/ton.
The Telesto report is based on 680 drill holes from historic drilling programs by Amselco, Alta Bay, Kennecott and others and 32 holes drilled by us in 2007. Sets of east-west and north-south cross sections were created at 30-meter intervals. Geologic parameters and gold grades were plotted on the sections. Geologic and structural data from surface mapping were transferred to the sections. Geological boundaries were rectified between sections and then gold envelopes were drawn to constrain interpolation of grades in the block model.
Exploration drilling at the Limo Property in 2009 totaled approximately 14,220 ft. (4,334 m) in 20 reverse circulation drill holes. The drilling was focused on two new targets outside the existing mineralization.
Recoveries from historic mining and preliminary metallurgical tests conducted on 2007 drill core indicate that mineralization at the Limo Complex is primarily oxide in nature and amenable to current heap-leach technology.
The mineral interests controlled by us in the Limo property consist of 1,392 contiguous claims that cover approximately 44 square miles (114 sq km). The land package extends for about 15 miles (24 km), and covers much of the western side of the southern Cherry Creek Range.
The Limo Property was previously subject to a joint venture between Nevada Pacific and Newmont Gold Company ("Newmont"), and in March 2003, Nevada Pacific acquired Newmont's interest in return for a sliding scale (1.5% to 2.5%) net smelter return royalty on all production from the property and from any claim acquired by Nevada Pacific within one mile of the property, with an advance payment to Newmont of $1 million to be made at the commencement of commercial production and credited against future royalty payments. Newmont has subsequently assigned this royalty interest to Franco-Nevada Corporation.
In 2008, we submitted to the BLM a Plan of Operation that proposed a drill program within the project area. The Plan requested an additional 72 acres of disturbance that was yet to be determined on a site-specific basis. The Plan of Operation was approved and a reclamation bond was submitted to, and accepted by, state and federal regulatory authorities.
In 2009, an amendment to the Plan of Operation proposing approximately two acres of site-specific disturbance in the project area was approved by regulatory authorities. The approved site-specific acreage reduces the surplus bonded acreage to approximately 70 acres.
Battle Mountain Complex
In conjunction with the acquisitions in 2007, we acquired various property interests which have been grouped under the designation "Battle Mountain Complex." The Battle Mountain Complex is generally located within Humboldt and Lander Counties in the valleys and on the flanks of the mountains surrounding Battle Mountain on the Cortez Trend north of our Tonkin complex. Battle Mountain, Nevada, located off Interstate 80, is the closest town.
The following graphic depicts the Battle Mountain Complex:
Exploration drilling will be initiated in early 2010 on the Valmy and Hits projects in the Battle Mountain Complex.
The general exploration model for the Battle Mountain Complex is Carlin-style mineralization contained in structurally-controlled, intrusive-related, quartz-adularia-sericite, low-sulfidation deposits, and/or skarn mineralization.
The mineral interests included in the Battle Mountain Complex are set forth in the following table:
Other United States Properties
Through the acquisitions completed during 2007, we acquired a number of mineral properties in Nevada, some of which are subject to option agreements as discussed further below.
Mineral interests included in Other Properties are set forth in the following table:
Royalty and Earn In Rights. The mineral properties included in the acquisition of Tone (Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone, Big Antelope Springs, Red Ridge, Fish Creek and Kent Springs) are generally subject to a 1% net smelter return royalty interest in favor of KM Exploration Ltd, a Nevada limited liability company. Certain properties (Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone and Big Antelope Springs) are also subject to earn-in rights in favor of Teck Cominco American Incorporated ("Teck"), pursuant to a 2004 Financing and Acquisition Agreement ("Acquisition Agreement"). Pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement, Teck has the right to acquire a joint venture interest in certain of our properties subject to the Acquisition Agreement. In order to acquire a joint venture interest in any property, certain contingencies and benchmarks outlined in the Acquisition Agreement which are intended to benefit a specific property must be satisfied. Such benchmarks include for example: (i) Teck funding certain minimum holding, exploration, and development activities for the property; (ii) Teck arranging financing for the development of the property; and (iii) Teck having feasibility reports prepared for the property. The Acquisition Agreement assigns various equity earn-in percentages in the joint venture to Teck's various levels of expenditures on the property. Depending on the benchmarks and related contractual contingencies satisfied, Teck has an opportunity to acquire a joint venture interest of between 51%-75% of our interest in a maximum of two properties. Teck also has certain first rights of refusal if the Company determines to sell the Red Ridge property. Through December 31, 2009, the required contractual contingencies and benchmarks had not been satisfied to enable Teck to earn a joint venture interest in any of the properties subject to the Acquisition Agreement.
New Pass and Squaw Creek. In 2004, White Knight entered into an option agreement on the New Pass and Squaw Creek properties with Consolidated Odyssey Exploration Inc. ("Odyssey") whereby Odyssey may earn an initial 50% interest in each property. To earn this, Odyssey needs to provide cash payments to White Knight of $500,000, 500,000 of its common shares per property (which have been paid) and spend $2,000,000 in exploration expenditures per property over a four-year period. Odyssey may earn an additional 10% interest in each property by financing the completion of a feasibility study. Subsequently, Odyssey assigned all its rights under the option agreement to Bonaventure Enterprises Inc., a Canadian corporation ("Bonaventure") on September 30, 2005. Bonaventure alleges that its exploration expenditures reached the $2,000,000 earn-in mark during 2008 and the parties are currently investigating the formation of the joint venture. According to the original option agreement, Bonaventure will be the operator of the newly formed joint venture. Bonaventure did not complete the requirements to earn an additional 10% interest in the property.
Mexican Properties
The Company has property in Mexico which includes the Magistral Mine Property, the Palmarito Project and the El Gallo Project. The Magistral Mine Property, located in Sinaloa State, produced approximately 70,000 ounces of gold from 2002-2005 before it was shut down due to higher than
anticipated operating costs and a lack of working capital when gold was approximately $400 per ounce. In late 2006, the Magistral mine was placed on a care and maintenance basis.
Including the projects discussed above, we currently control mineral concessions of approximately 1,395 sq. miles (3,613 sq. km) located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa and Nayarit. We hold our interests through ownership of Pangea Resources Inc. which in turn holds 100 percent ownership of Compania Minera Pangea S.A. de C.V. ("Minera Pangea"). The titles are granted under Mexican mining law and are issued by Secretaria de Economía, Coordinación General de Mineria, Dirección General de Minas (Dirección de Minas).
The following map depicts the location of the Magistral Mine Property and the Palmarito and El Gallo projects.
Magistral Mine Property
The Magistral Mine Property consists of 38 sq. miles (98 sq. km) of mineral concessions located in the Sinaloa state, of northwestern Mexico in Mocorito Municipality. The project is located approximately 62 miles (100 km) by air northwest of the Sinaloa state capital city of Culiacán in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range. The project area is located approximately 14 miles (22 km) northeast from the village of Mocorito, approximately 25 miles (40 km)
northeast from the town of Guamuchil, and approximately 93 miles (150 km) southeast from the city of Los Mochis. It is a former producing open pit mining operation, with heap leach processing facilities, that until July 2005, was operating at a production rate of 900,000 ore tonnes per year. Past production came from the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits.
The mineralization at the Magistral Mine Property is classified as low-sulfidation epithermal gold-silver mineral system. The presence of biotite and K-feldspar, the lack of clay minerals, and the overprint of biotite by chlorite indicate that these veins were formed deep in the epithermal system. The main alteration and assemblages consist of quartz-chlorite/biotite-hematite, and minor sulphides.
Mineralization within the various deposits of the Magistral Mine Property mine area is generally very similar, with the individual structural zones consisting of stockwork, breccia, and locally quartz vein mineralization occurring within sheared, broken, and propylitically altered volcanic rocks.
Modern exploration activities at the Magistral Mine Property started in early 1995, initially for Mogul Mining NL and subsequently for Santa Cruz Gold Inc. From mid-1995 to early 1997, extensive drilling was conducted by Minera Pangea/Santa Cruz Gold on the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposit areas, as well as locally extensive drilling on the Sagrado Corazón-Central-Lupita deposit area. In 1998, Santa Cruz conducted a limited amount of additional drilling for metallurgical samples, reverse circulation grade verification, in-fill purposes, and condemnation of potential surface facility locations. In 1999, after a merger with Santa Cruz Gold, Queenstake conducted a limited drilling program to step-out/in-fill drill in the Samaniego Hill deposit and to obtain pit-slope geotechnical samples from both the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits. Queenstake conducted a drilling campaign from late 2001 to early 2002 in the La Prieta Zone of the Samaniego Hill deposit to delineate extensions of the high grade La Prieta zone along strike and down dip.
The Magistral Mine Property includes infrastructure associated with heap leach operations at the mine site and is currently used as our base for exploration. Infrastructure at Magistral includes offices and process buildings, as well as a heavy equipment maintenance shop and warehouse. An in-house laboratory has the capacity for fire assays along with atomic absorption, and includes a standard metallurgical testing facility. Telecommunications are provided by a microwave system that supplies modern telephone and internet service. The process plant includes a carbon circuit with a capacity of 12 tons of activated carbon. The gold recovery system includes a zinc precipitation circuit. The plant is powered by four 175 kW diesel generators. In 2009, we sold the four CAT 777B haul trucks and five Euclid R-50 trucks due to the age of the equipment for net proceeds of $654,637. The remaining heavy fleet of used equipment includes various loaders, excavators, bulldozers and conventional rotary drills. During 2009, with the assistance of a third party valuator, it was determined that our carrying value of this equipment were greater than the net realizable value. As a result, for the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a write-off of long-lived assets of $760,355.
Care and Maintenance. In October 2006, the mine was placed on care and maintenance. The pumping of solutions and operation of other plant equipment will continue on an "as needed" basis to maintain safe pond levels and to ensure that the plant equipment can be returned to service when and if a decision to restart the mine is made. Staffing levels have been maintained to the minimum required for these efforts and also to support exploration in the mine area.
Royalties. The Repadre Capital Corporation (owned by IAMGOLD Corporation) holds a net smelter return ("NSR") royalty based upon the quantity of gold produced by the project. For production up to 30,000 ounces, a 1.5 percent royalty is due. For production between 30,000 and 350,000 ounces, a royalty of 3.5 percent is required. Above 350,000 ounces the royalty drops to 1 percent. Since the mine has already produced more the 30,000 ounces the 1.5 percent royalty is no longer in effect and all future production up to the 350,000 ounce level will be subject to the 3.5 percent royalty rate.
The following map depicts the key mineralized areas at the Magistral Mine Property and surface facilities
Palmarito Project
The Palmarito Project is located 7.5 miles (12 km) southwest of US Gold's Magistral Mine in Sinaloa state. Palmarito is one of Sinaloa's major historic producers of silver. Total production is estimated to be 15,300,000 ounces of silver and 49,250 ounces of gold from open pit and underground workings before mining ceased in 1950.
During 2008, US Gold signed an option agreement to buy 100 percent of a third party concession containing 0.5 sq. miles (1 sq. km) in the Palmarito area. The exercise of the option brought the immediate project area to a total of approximately 3 sq. miles (8 sq. km). The option agreement provides US Gold with the right to purchase the 2 percent NSR royalty for $1 million during the term of option agreement and up to 12 months thereafter.
Core drilling totaled approximately 1,465 ft. (447 m) in 2009 with the objective of identifying and confirming new mineralized zones. An NI 43-101 compliant technical report was completed at the Palmarito Project by Pincock, Allen & Holt (PAH) in December 2008. The report estimates that mineralized material for the Palmarito Silver Project consists of 3.8 million tonnes of material with an
average grade of 70.1 grams silver per tonne and 0.14 grams gold per tonne, using a cut-off grade of 40 grams silver per tonne.
The estimated mineralization for Palmarito was divided into three categories in the report prepared by PAH: (a) In Situ, material undisturbed by past mining activity; (b) Dump, material that was mined in the past but not processed; and (c) Tailings, material from the previous processing operations. PAH defined finite volumes to restrict the boundaries of the estimated mineralization for each of the different categories. A three-dimensional block model was created for each material category and composited assay data for the drill holes and pits were used to populate them with silver and gold grades.
In situ material as well as dump and tailings material was included in the estimate, with approximately 95% of the estimated mineralization coming from the in situ deposit and the remaining approximately 5% coming from the historic dump and tailings. The PAH estimate was based on 369 historic and recent drill holes drilled by three different companies, Lluvia de Oro (1994-1995), Nevada Pacific Gold (2006-2007) and US Gold (2008). Of the 369 holes used in the estimate, 105 were done by reverse circulation (74 of which were drilled by Lluvia de Oro and 31 by US Gold); and 27 were core holes (19 drilled by Nevada Pacific Gold and 8 by US Gold). The remaining 237 holes were drilled by US Gold by conventional rotary methods and were exclusively used to model and define the estimate of the historic mine tailings.
The following map depicts the concessions that are 100% owned by US Gold and those where the Company has an option to earn a 100% interest:
Palmarito is a low-sulfidation, epithermal silver deposit. These deposit types occur commonly throughout the Sierra Madres in Mexico. Known mineralization at Palmarito occurs along or near the northeastern intrusive contact where the structures forming the intrusive contact strike roughly E-W and N-S. Near surface, these structures are mineralized, forming a horseshoe-shaped zone which wraps around the margin of the intrusive. Commonly, strongly silicified and stockwork-veined andesite occurs
above and below the breccia at the contact. The breccias consist of clast-supported, coarse angular fragments of rhyolite and fine- to medium-grained andesite. Clasts are cemented by fine-grained, white silica. Generally, Palmarito mineralization is characterized by strong silicification.
El Gallo Project
The El Gallo Project is located 4.7 miles (7.5 km) northwest of the Magistral Mine Property and has become a high-priority for US Gold after high grade silver mineralization was discovered during the fall of 2008. The project is situated in the middle of US Gold's large Magistral District land package. Although there has been some minor prospecting in the area, there is no historic mining of any significance. The mineralization at El Gallo is mainly silver , with minor gold-lead-zinc probably contributed by a separate mineralizing event.
The El Gallo Project lies within two US Gold-controlled concessions called Rocío Fracción A and Pangea (see map below). These concessions have an area of 86,487 acres and 3,942 acres respectively
and are located within the Magistral District property. US Gold controls all the immediate properties surrounding El Gallo.
The El Gallo Project occurs within the Pie de la Sierra physiographic province of the Sierra Madre Occidental Range, which is part of a late Jurassic to middle Cretaceous volcanic-arc. Tertiary volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks overlay Paleozoic and Mesozoic metamorphic rocks which may be locally cut by Cretaceous intrusive rocks.
The oldest rocks in the region are andesite porphyries that occur widely throughout the area. These are cut by intrusions of late Cretaceous-early Tertiary age, ranging from tonalite to granodiorite in composition. These rocks are discordantly overlain by early Tertiary andesites, andesite tuffs, and
andesite porphyries which are the principal host rocks to the mineralized structures that occur throughout the Magistral District. The oldest rocks seen in outcrop in the study area are Cretaceous in age. This includes locally fossiliferous limestones, sandy limestones, and limy sandstones that crop out to the south and northwest of El Gallo, where they are altered to garnet-epidote skarn with very local tremolite-actinolite skarn.
The Cretaceous calcareous rocks are overlain discordantly by a thick package of andesitic rocks of Middle Cretaceous age. The sequence is composed of coarse-grained andesite flows (turkey track), fine-grained andesite porphyry flows, aphanitic andesite flows and andesite lithic tuffs. Coarse-grained granite-granodiorites of the Laramide Sinaloa Batholith intrude both Cretaceous sequences. The Cretaceous sedimentary and volcanic rocks, as well as the lower Tertiary volcanics, are also locally cut by younger dikes of quartz-eye rhyolitic porphyry and fine-to-medium grained diorite stocks that are of a later stage than the main batholith, possibly of lower Tertiary age. These dikes and stocks are interpreted to be the source of the mineralized hydrothermal fluids responsible for the El Gallo and Magistral deposits.
The northern part of the El Gallo Project is characterized by the presence of a thick sequence of volcanic rocks, mainly andesitic flows, that discordantly overlie the Cretaceous andesitic rocks and are hydrothermally altered, forming part of the host rock for the mineralized structures.
The Cretaceous and lower Tertiary units are covered by rhyolitic to rhyodacitic flows of probable mid-Tertiary age which are then capped by upper Tertiary basaltic andesitic flows.
Environmental studies were commissioned by US Gold in order to obtain various exploration permits for the El Gallo Project. Sistemas de Gestion Integral and Heuristica Ambiental, environmental consultants from Culiacan, Sinaloa and Hermosillo, Sonora, were contracted to carry out the studies and permitting. Applications for the two permits were submitted to the Secretariat of Environmental and Natural Resources ("SEMARNAT"), the Mexican Government environmental authority. The first permit was submitted on July 17, 2009 for a Land Use Change and was subsequently approved on November 27, 2009. The second permit was submitted on July 27, 2009 for an Environmental Impact Study and was approved on December 15, 2009. These permits allow for a specific amount of disturbance for exploration activities.
Exploration work completed in 2009 at El Gallo consisted mainly of core and conventional rotary drilling and geochemical surface sampling. A total of 11,665 soil samples and 3,845 rock samples were
taken at the El Gallo Project during 2009. Drilling at El Gallo totaled 58,583 ft. (17,856 m). The most significant core intercepts are highlighted below:
US Gold has planned an aggressive 330,000 ft. (100,000 m) drilling program at El Gallo in 2010 in order to delineate and expand the known mineralization and for mineralized material calculation purposes.
Other Exploration Areas
Geochemical surface sampling has been carried out in other prospective areas within the Magistral District. Further work is needed in order to evaluate the potential of those areas. Drilling is budgeted for various prospects in 2010.
ITEM 3.