ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into reportable segments consistent with the manner in which they are grouped in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3, Operating Segment Reporting and subdivide them within each segment by their respective stage of development: “production properties”, “advanced-stage properties” and “exploration properties.” Advanced-stage properties consist of properties for which advanced studies and reports have been completed indicating the presence of economically mineable mineralized material or in some cases, proven and probable reserves, and for which we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining the required permitting. Our designation of certain properties as “production properties” or “advanced-stage properties” should not suggest that we have proven or probable reserves at those properties as defined by Guide 7.
The location of our significant production, advanced-stage and exploration properties is shown below:
SEGMENT: USA
The following map depicts the location of our major properties in the USA segment, including the Gold Bar mine and exploration properties which are fully owned by us or subject to joint venture agreements. The Gold Bar mine is located in the southern Roberts Mountains along the prolific Battle Mountain-Eureka-Cortez gold trend. Approximately 25 miles northwest of the Gold Bar property is the Cortez gold mine owned by Nevada Gold Mines (Barrick and Newmont joint venture), and 25 miles southeast is the past producing Ruby Hill mine:
The following table summarizes the land position of our properties in Nevada as of December 31, 2019:
Production Properties
Gold Bar mine, Nevada (100% owned)
For detailed information on the Gold Bar mine production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
The Gold Bar mine is an open pit oxide gold mine with a heap leach pad and gold recovery plant. The mine is located primarily on public lands managed by the BLM. Project construction commenced by us in November 2017 following receipt of the signed Record of Decision from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The Gold Bar mine achieved commercial production on May 23, 2019.
The property is located within the Battle Mountain-Eureka-Cortez gold trend in Eureka County, Nevada. The property was previously mined from 1987 to 1994 by Atlas Precious Metals Inc.
Location and Access
The Gold Bar mine is located in the Southern Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 30 miles northwest of the town of Eureka, Nevada, primarily in Township 22 North, Range 50 East (N39°48’16.5”; W116°21’09.65”). The mine site is accessed from US Highway 50 by travelling north on Robert’s Creek Road, an unimproved dirt road maintained by the Company. The mine area is approximately 15 miles from U.S. Highway 50.
Geology and Mineralization
The mine is located in the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt in a large window of lower-plate carbonate rocks surrounded by upper-plate rocks. The lower-plate carbonates consist of an east-dipping section of Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation, Devonian Denay Formation, and Devonian Devils Gate Limestone (from oldest to youngest). Gold mineralization is hosted primarily in the Bartine Member of the McColley Canyon Formation, which consists of carbonate wackestones and packstones which are approximately 250 to 380 feet thick. Minor amounts of mineralization are found in the underlying dolomitic limestone Kobeh Member of the McColley Canyon Formation where it is adjacent to apparent feeder structures. The area where the project is located has “Carlin-Type” sediment-hosted gold mineralization characteristics with typical associated alteration (decalcification, silicification).
At Pot Canyon, extensive alteration (silicification) and brecciation occurs at surface and several historic holes returned significant mineralization. In addition, a deep core hole drilled through multiple target zones returned near-surface gold mineralization and Carlin-type alteration and pathfinder elements at several stratigraphic horizons at depth. This mineralization occurs near the Wall Fault, a regional structure interpreted to play an important role in the control of gold mineralization at Gold Bar.
Facilities and Infrastructure
Gold Bar mine construction began in November 2017 with key site facilities and infrastructure completed by the end of 2018 and commercial production declared in May 23, 2019. The Gold Bar mine has well developed infrastructure including on-site power generation and transmission lines, water, natural gas and related supply utilities as well as buildings which support the operations and administration. The water supply for the Gold Bar mine and processing facilities comes from production wells located approximately two miles southeast from the site and powered by a diesel generator. The mining of the open pits is being carried out by a contractor and the work progressed as planned during 2019. Ore from the mine is transported to the crusher and conveyor system with the crushed and agglomerated material transported to the heap leach pad via an overland conveyor.
The ore is stacked onto the heap using a radial stacker and then leached with a weak cyanide solution to extract the precious metal values. The gold is then recovered from the pregnant solution in the carbon plant by adsorbing the dissolved gold onto activated carbon followed by desorption, electrowinning, retorting and smelting to recover the gold as a final doré product.
Exploration Activities
Exploration activities in 2019 focused on targets around the Gold Bar mine including drilling at the Gold Bar South target to support resource estimation and potential conversion to reserves and drilling at Pot Canyon to test certain near-surface and deep targets. Gold Bar South, acquired by McEwen Mining in 2016, consists of 109 mining claims located approximately 3.5 miles southeast from our Gold Bar mine. Gold Bar South hosts a near surface oxide gold deposit which, based on several historic higher-grade drill intersections, shows exploration potential laterally and at depth. In addition, we completed a deep core hole through multiple targets at Pot Canyon. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more details. We expect to continue similar drilling at Gold Bar in 2020.
Exploration Properties
Tonkin property (100% owned)
The Tonkin property represents our second largest holding within the Battle Mountain-Eureka Trend in Eureka County, Nevada with approximately 45 sq. miles of claims. The Tonkin property consists of the Tonkin deposit and the previously operating Tonkin mine.
From 1985 through 1989, the Tonkin mine produced approximately 30,000 ounces of gold utilizing an oxide heap leach and a separate ball mill involving bio oxidation to treat refractory sulphide mineralized material. Due to cost escalation and recovery issues, the operation was shut down. The mine site is currently on care-and-maintenance and we continue to advance the reclamation program. We also continue evaluation work with respect to the Tonkin deposit.
Other exploration properties
We hold other exploration stage properties close to the Gold Bar mine which are not considered material at this time.
SEGMENT: CANADA
The following map depicts the location of our major properties forming the Canada segment of our operations. The properties within the Canada segment are located in the well-established Timmins Gold Mining district in Northern Ontario, Canada. The segment consists of the Black Fox and Stock properties and various exploration and advanced stage properties (the “Black Fox Complex”), comprising 5,100 hectares of land packages intersecting 9 miles of the Destor-Porcupine Fault, which is known as the ‘Golden Highway.’ The Destor-Porcupine Fault has a total strike length of approximately 124 miles and hosts many of Ontario and Quebec’s prolific gold mines.
The Black Fox property includes the Black Fox mine and surrounding properties, including the Grey Fox and Froome advanced-stage properties. Stock property, the site of former Stock mine, is located approximately 17 miles from the Black Fox mine. Stock property includes the Stock mill where mineralized material from Black Fox mine is transported to and processed and the Stock exploration property. In addition, Canada segment includes other exploration properties such as Fuller, Davidson-Tisdale, Buffalo Ankerite and Paymaster.
The location of the various properties is shown below:
The following table summarizes the Canada land position of our company as of December 31, 2019:
(1)Parcel Identification Number (“PIN”) is a unique number assigned to each automated parcel in the Ontario Land Registry.
Production Properties
Black Fox mine and Stock mill, Canada (100% owned)
For detailed information on the Black Fox mine and Stock mill production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
We acquired the Black Fox Complex in October 2017. It is located in the well-established Timmins Gold Mining district in Northern Ontario, Canada. Its main properties, Stock and Black Fox, are positioned along the Provincial Highway 101, with the Stock property 22 miles east of the city of Timmins and the Black Fox property 6 miles east of the town of Matheson. Given the proximity to communities in a region with primary industries of mining and forestry, local supplies and services are easily available and can be delivered in a timely manner to our operations.
The Black Fox mine refers to the current mining operation and is an underground gold mine and a key component of the complex, which also includes the Froome and Grey Fox deposits. The Black Fox mine initially produced from 1997 to 2001, operated by Exall Resources Limited. Re-commissioned by Brigus Gold Corporation, the mine restarted in early 2009. Primero Mining Corp. (“Primero”) acquired Brigus on March 5, 2014 and continued to operate the mine. We acquired the property on October 3, 2017 and continued the commercial operations.
Also part of the Black Fox Complex, the Stock property hosts the Stock mill and is the site of the former Stock mine. Exploration initiated by us in 2018 and continuing in 2019 has defined two new mineralized zones at Stock East and Stock West, within a 2-mile mineralized trend along the Destor-Porcupine Fault.
The land packages of the Black Fox Complex continue to hold exploration potential to depth and along trends. In 2019, we invested $25.5 million in exploration at the Black Fox Complex. A property-wide exploration program was completed in 2019 and included 489,000 ft. (149,000 meters) of surface-staged exploration drilling and 128,000 ft. (39,000 meters) of underground-based exploration drilling. The program delivered very encouraging results, with new targets identified and an expansion of gold resources across the properties.
The Black Fox mine contains 32 mining right parcels and 50 unpatented claims totaling 10 sq. miles of mining land. The complex also includes 6 sq. miles of surface land. All land parcels are located within Beatty and Hislop townships in the municipality of Black-River Matheson.
Location and Access
The Black Fox mine is located 6 miles east of Matheson, Ontario, and accessed directly from Highway 101 East. Matheson, in turn, is located approximately 45 miles from Timmins, which has a commercial airport. Timmins is approximately 342 miles by air north of Toronto.
The Stock mill is located approximately 17 miles from the Black Fox mine. Mineralized material is shipped to the mill from the Black Fox mine by truck.
Geology and Mineralization
The Black Fox mine is located within the Abitibi greenstone belt. Gold mineralization at the Black Fox mine occurs in several different geological environments within the main ankerite alteration zone, and generally occurs as: (1) free gold associated with shallow dipping quartz veins and stockworks in green carbonate and ankerite-altered ultramafic rocks; (2) gold-bearing pyrite; (3) gold associated with fine-grained pyrite and (4) free gold in steeply dipping sigmoidal quartz veins.
Facilities and Infrastructure
The Black Fox mine property has well developed infrastructure including electricity, roads, water supply and high-speed internet access. There are seven fully serviced modular buildings which support various functions of the underground mine. There is also a maintenance shop, warehouse, compressed air plant, backfill plant and water management facilities. Mineralized material from the Black Fox mine is transported to, and processed at, the Stock mill, which has a nominal processing capacity of 2,500 tpd.
The primary water supply for the Black Fox mine comes from an on-site fresh water well and water produced from dewatering activities. Current water supplies are adequate to sustain current and planned future operations.
The Stock property, the site of our Stock mill, has well developed infrastructure including electricity, roads, water supply and high-speed internet access. There are also two buildings that support security and administration of the mill. There is an assay lab and several other buildings to support operations and milling, including a hoist house, warehouse and maintenance shop, mine dry building, crusher and conveyor systems and the mill building itself. The site also houses various support structures including storage and generator buildings.
Metal Streaming Agreement
We are obligated to sell 8% of current and future gold production from the Black Fox mine and Froome deposit to Sandstorm Gold Limited (“Sandstorm”) at the lesser of market price or $551 per oz (with inflation adjustments of up to 2% per year) until 2090. We assumed this obligation in connection with our acquisition of the Black Fox mine in 2017.
Advanced-Stage Properties
Grey Fox, Canada (100% owned)
The Grey Fox project is located 2.2 miles southeast of Black Fox mine, and is adjacent to Kirkland Lake Gold’s former Hislop mine. Access is either by paved or well maintained, two-way, dirt roads.
An internal feasibility-level study was completed on the Grey Fox project in early 2015 by Primero, which recommended further development of the deposit. Further advanced project work continued until 2016, when Primero ceased all non-essential expenditures.
In 2019, we completed an exploration program which focused on increasing and further defining the Grey Fox resource. Drilling was also performed to test multiple targets in the Grey Fox area. Exploration activities are expected to continue in 2020 including follow-up (step out) and infill drilling to support resource growth and confirmation of a new zone of mineralization.
Froome, Canada (100% Owned)
The Froome deposit is located 0.5 miles west of the Black Fox mine, accessible by paved and dirt roads.
An internal study was completed in 2019, the results of which suggested positive economics to advance the project. We expect to continue to advance the development of the Froome underground deposit in 2020 and to be mining and producing gold from the deposit in late 2021.
Exploration Properties
The Stock property is the site of the former Stock mine, which produced 137,000 ounces of gold from an underground operation between 1989 and 2005.
Exploration at Stock property started in 2018 and continued in 2019. The drilling program has been successful returning multiple intersections of high grade gold mineralization at Stock East and Stock West along a 2 mile long segment of the Destor-Porcupine Fault. Stock East and Stock West are located, respectively 0.4 miles and 0.2 miles away from the former Stock mine workings.
Results from our first phase of drilling at Stock West suggest the potential to define a significant new zone of mineralization, with economic importance enhanced by its proximity to the former Stock mine workings.
Other exploration properties acquired in connection with our acquisition of Lexam VG Gold Inc. in 2017 include Davidson-Tisdale, Fuller, Paymaster and Buffalo Ankerite.
SEGMENT: MEXICO
The following map depicts the location of our property forming the Mexico segment, of which the El Gallo Project (formerly “El Gallo 1” or “El Gallo Mine”) and the advanced-stage Fenix Project are described in the sections below:
The following table summarizes the Company’s land position in Mexico as of December 31, 2019:
Production Properties
El Gallo Project (formerly “El Gallo 1” or “El Gallo Mine”), Mexico (100% owned)
For detailed information on the El Gallo Project production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
We own 100% of the El Gallo Project. The El Gallo Project was the open-pit gold mine and heap leach operation originally known as the Magistral mine. We operated the mine from September 2012 to June 2018, when we ceased active mining. Present activities are limited to residual leaching production that will continue until the end of 2021, as well as closure and reclamation activities.
The El Gallo Project consists of 8 sq miles of concessions. Concession titles are granted under Mexican mining law. Mining concessions are subject to annual work requirements and payment of annual surface taxes which are assessed and levied on a semi-annual basis in accordance with Mexican law. An annual lease agreement for surface access to the El Gallo Project is currently in place.
Location and Access
The El Gallo Project and the surrounding properties are in northwestern Mexico in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range, within the State of Sinaloa in the Mocorito Municipality, approximately 60 miles by air northwest of Culiacan, the Sinaloa State capital city. The concessions are located approximately 2.5 miles by road from the town of Mocorito. Access is by paved and well maintained, two-way dirt roads.
Facilities and Infrastructure
The El Gallo Project property has well-developed infrastructure including electricity, roads, water supply and high-speed internet access. There is a truck shop, a warehouse, a fuel depot, core logging facilities, an explosives magazine, heap leach pads, process ponds, an assay laboratory, a three stage crushing plant, an ADR process plant with a sulfidation-acidification recovery (“SAR”) circuit added in the first quarter of 2018 and an administrative office. The laboratory is equipped to process all assay samples from the mine, core, chips and soil. The metallurgical lab is capable of determining cyanide leaching amenability and gold and silver recoveries of mineralized material amenable to cyanide leaching.
Advanced-Stage Properties
Fenix Project, Mexico (100% owned)
Overview and History
Three areas of mineralized material located inside of our property are currently considered for the Fenix Project and are the basis of the resource estimate included in the ongoing Feasibility Study (“FS”).
The Fenix Project contemplates a two-phase development process. Phase 1 includes the reprocessing of material on the gold heap leach pad at the existing El Gallo Project and open pit mining at the El Encuentro area. Phase 2 includes the processing of open pit silver mineralization from El Gallo Silver.
The process plant is expected to use conventional and proven mineral processing and precious metals recovery technologies. Phase 1 would have a throughput rate of 5,510 tons per day (5,000 tonnes per day (tpd)). During Phase 2, mineralized material from the El Gallo Silver would only be processed at a maximum of 3,580 tons per day (3,250 tpd).
Tailings produced during the operation would be stored in a mined-out open pit at the El Gallo Project. As part of this process, tailings deposition would include a delivery system designed to maximize tailings consolidation and water recovery. Utilizing the in pit tailings storage technology is expected to be cost effective and environmentally friendly as it would reduce the disturbance footprint and construction material, eliminate the construction of a tailings dam, recycle process water, and reduce closure obligations by removing the leach pad.
During the second half of 2019, we received the environmental permit approval for in-pit tailings storage in the Samaniego pit and the additional approval for the process plant for Phase 1, which entails the construction of the Carbon-In-Leach (CIL) mill circuit. A decision to pursue the project has not yet been made.
Access and Location
The Fenix Project is located adjacent to the El Gallo Project and is similarly accessible.
Facilities and Infrastructure
The El Gallo Project infrastructure is used to support current work on the Fenix Project.
In addition, the local power grid is situated approximately 9 miles from the Fenix Project, and a new overhead power line would need to be installed to supply grid power to the Fenix Project.
SEGMENT: LOS AZULES, ARGENTINA
Exploration Properties
The following map depicts the location of the Los Azules project in the province of San Juan in Argentina. Los Azules is located in the Andean Copper Belt, which hosts many of the world’s largest copper deposits.
The following table summarizes the land position related to Los Azules segment as of December 31, 2019:
Los Azules Copper Project, Argentina (100% owned)
Overview and History
The Los Azules copper project is an advanced-stage porphyry copper exploration project located in the cordilleran region in the province of San Juan, Argentina near the border with Chile. In 1994, Minera Andes acquired lands in the southern portion of the Los Azules area. Over the years there was additional exploration done by Minera Andes and other companies who owned adjacent properties around Los Azules. We acquired Minera Andes in January 2012.
During 2019, work continued on preliminary engineering and cost estimates to advance the proposed low altitude all year access route (northern access route). We also advanced the Los Azules water management plan to evaluate the project operating as a zero discharge development.
The environmental baseline monitoring work continued as well as other works, which were identified as necessary to develop a conforming Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) submission. The environmental work included the geological mapping of the tailings dam design.
In 2020, we expect to complete the environmental studies to gather the requested information to prepare the Environmental Impact Assessment for the next development phase.
Location and Access
The project is located at approximately 31o 13’30” South latitude and 70o 13’50” West longitude and abuts the Chile-Argentina border. It is accessible by unimproved dirt roads with seasonal closures in winter. The elevation at the site ranges between 11,500 feet to 14,750 feet above sea level.
Geology and Mineralization
The deposit is located within a copper porphyry belt that is host to some of the world’s largest copper mines. The upper part of the system consists of a barren leached cap, which is underlain by a high-grade secondary enrichment blanket. Primary mineralization below the secondary enrichment zone has been intersected in drilling up to a depth of more than 3,280 feet below surface.
Exploration Activities
Drilling conditions in the area are difficult, especially due to the presence of highly faulted zones and areas of loose surface scree or talus. Due to snow conditions on two mountain passes on the access road to the site, seasonal exploration typically commences in December and extends into late April. Drilling programs have been undertaken at Los Azules between 1998 and 2014 and in 2017 by four different mineral exploration companies: Battle Mountain Gold (now Newmont Corporation), Mount Isa Mines S.A. (now Glencore Plc.), Minera Andes and McEwen Mining. Drilling, including early reverse circulation programs, focused initially on gold exploration and subsequently on diamond drilling for porphyry style copper mineralization. Since 2013, we have focused on baseline studies regarding flora, fauna, water quality and other environmental compliance matters.
Facilities and Infrastructure
There are currently limited facilities or infrastructure located at the project site which mainly includes portable camp structures and drill platforms.
SEGMENT: MINERA SANTA CRUZ (“MSC”), ARGENTINA
The following map depicts the location of the San José mine land package, which forms the Minera Santa Cruz segment. San José is located approximately 12 miles north of Newmont’s Cerro Negro mine, in the northwest corner of the Deseado Massif region:
Production Properties
San José mine, Argentina (49% owned)
For detailed information on the San José mine production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
The San José mine is an underground gold and silver mining operation. We acquired our interest in the San José mine in connection with our acquisition of Minera Andes in January 2012. The property is owned and operated under an option and joint venture agreement (“OJVA”) between Minera Andes (49%) and Hochschild (51%) in the name of MSC. The property was acquired by Minera Andes in 1997, followed by an extensive exploration program from 1997 to 2001, leading to the discovery of the Huevos Verdes and Saavedra West Zones. A feasibility study was completed in October 2005 under the direction of MSC and, following construction, commercial production was declared on January 1, 2008.
The mine is part of a larger property which covers a total area of approximately 1,074 sq. miles and consists of 135 mining concessions.
Location and Access
The San José property is in the province of Santa Cruz, Argentina, lying approximately between latitude 46°41’S and 46°47’S and longitude 70°17’W and 70°00’W. The mine is 1,087 miles south-southwest of the city of Buenos Aires and 217 miles southwest of the Atlantic port city of Comodoro Rivadavia. The principal access route to the San José property is a paved highway from Comodoro Rivadavia followed by a 20 mile two-lane dirt road to the mine. Comodoro Rivadavia has regularly-scheduled air services to Buenos Aires. The nearest town is Perito Moreno, which is approximately 19 miles west of the San José property.
Geology and Mineralization
The San José property is in the Deseado Massif, which consists of Paleozoic metamorphic basement rocks unconformably overlain by Middle to Upper Jurassic bimodal andesitic and rhyolitic volcanics and volcaniclastics. Cretaceous sediments and Tertiary to Quaternary basalts overlie the Jurassic volcanics. The Jurassic Bajo Pobre Formation is the main host of gold and silver vein mineralization at the mine. The formation is comprised of a lower andesite volcaniclastic unit and an upper andesite lava flow and has a maximum thickness of 394 ft. Mineralization in the San José area occurs as low sulfidation epithermal quartz veins, breccias and stockwork systems accompanying normal sinistral faults.
Facilities and Infrastructure
Infrastructure at the property consists of camp facilities that can accommodate up to approximately 1,100 personnel, a medical clinic, a security building, a maintenance shop, a laboratory, processing facilities, a mine and process facility warehouse, a surface tailings impoundment, support buildings and mine portals, a change house, a core warehouse, an administration building and offices. The laboratory is equipped to process all assays (core, chips and soil). MSC has installed a satellite based telephone/data/internet communication system.
Electricity is provided by an 81 mile 132 kV electric transmission line, which connects the San José mine processing facility to the national power grid.
The San José mine is a ramp access underground mining operation.
Exploration Activities‌
MSC has purchased the land and corresponding occupation rights that are necessary to conduct its operations.
During 2019, exploration was mainly focused on San José and other targets in the proximity of the mine. In 2020, MSC will continue its exploration efforts to increase knowledge of the new veins and develop other new veins in the district.
ITEM 3.