ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Introduction
Throughout 2010, we continued to hold a 100% interest in the historic Tonkin property and also continued to rationalize the Nevada Pacific, White Knight and Tone properties acquired in 2007. Our total Nevada land position consists of approximately 254 square miles (658 sq. km) of patented and unpatented mining claims, of which approximately 191 square miles (495 sq. km) are located on the Cortez Trend. We also continued to hold approximately 1,525 square miles (3,950 sq. km) of mineral rights in Mexico, including the Magistral Gold Mine located in the state of Sinaloa, Mexico.
The following table summarizes the U.S. land position of our company as of December 31, 2010:
We generally hold mineral interests in Nevada through unpatented mining and mill site claims, leases of unpatented mining claims, and joint venture and other agreements. Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the BLM, and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits, and lease and option payments to claim owners.
As discussed elsewhere in this report in more detail, the lease covering a total of 478 claims comprising a portion of our Tonkin property, known as Tonkin North and Cornerstone, expired in January 2011. Since that date, we have entered into an agreement with the owner to acquire the claims for a combination of cash and the grant of a royalty interest in any gold produced from the claims in excess of a prescribed minimum. However, that agreement is subject to certain conditions, and we have not formally acquired the claims as of March 9, 2011. In the event we are unsuccessful in acquiring those claims, our interest in the Tonkin property would be reduced by 478 claims and the estimate of mineralized material relating to the Tonkin property would be reduced accordingly. Please review the following disclosure relating to our Tonkin property for additional details.
The following Nevada trend map and property location map is presented to generally indicate the location of the trends and our properties:
For purposes of organizing and describing our exploration efforts in the United States, we have grouped our properties into four complexes, the Tonkin Complex, the Gold Bar Complex, the Limo Complex and the Battle Mountain Complex. Mineral properties outside these areas and where limited exploration work has been performed by us to date are grouped as "Other United States Properties". Certain properties are subject to certain royalty and earn-in rights. Please see the "Other United States Properties" section below for further information.
In addition to the above-mentioned U.S. properties, we acquired mineral concessions in Mexico from our acquisition of Nevada Pacific in 2007, including the Magistral Mine and the concessions where the Company discovered El Gallo, which is US Gold's primary focus in Mexico. El Gallo is located in northwestern Mexico, within Sinaloa state, Mocorito Municipality, Mexico. In aggregate, we currently own an interest in approximately 1,525 sq. miles (3,950 sq. km) of mineral concessions in Mexico.
The following map illustrates the general location of the El Gallo Project and our mineral concessions in Mexico:
Tonkin Complex
Overview. The Tonkin Complex includes our historic Tonkin property, together with additional properties and interests acquired in 2007. The Tonkin Complex is divided functionally into five areas: the Mine Corridor, Tonkin North, Patty, Keystone, and Tweed. The Tonkin Complex represents our largest holding in the State of Nevada at approximately 93 sq. miles (241 sq. km).
Location. The Tonkin Complex is located on the Cortez Trend, approximately 48 miles (77 km) by road northwest from Eureka, Nevada, 85 miles (137 km) by road southwest from Elko and 245 miles (394 km) by road east from Reno. The nearest commercial airport is located in Elko.
Infrastructure. The Tonkin Complex includes a mine site from operations in the 1980's with several small open pits, stockpile areas, plant and established infrastructure. In 1988 and 1989, an integrated carbon-in-leach bacterial oxidation plant was built. The plant and associated infrastructure was decommissioned and put on care and maintenance in June 1990, but apart from the SAG mill, which has been removed, it is complete and we believe it is in relatively good condition. We do not envision utilizing this mill in the foreseeable future and may undertake efforts to sell it in an effort to supplement our working capital. The existing infrastructure also includes a water supply, water storage and distribution, sewage disposal, trailer park, fuel storage and distribution, grid and emergency power supply and distribution. Electrical power is supplied via existing 64kV power lines and a substation on the property. The power lines and substation are owned and maintained by Sierra Pacific Power
Company. Existing facilities include an administration building, truck shop, assay laboratory, mill building, warehouse, and plant maintenance shop.
History. We obtained the first claims which now comprise the Tonkin Complex in 1985. Between 1985 and 1988, we produced approximately 26,000 ounces of gold from the heap leach operation from about 871,000 tons of ore.
In 1988 and 1989, we constructed a mill with the proceeds of a debt financing. In 1989, we processed ore from the "Rooster" deposit, producing 1,753 ounces of gold. In 1990, using bio-oxidation and the carbon-in-leach circuits of the mill, we produced 2,735 additional ounces of gold from approximately 70,000 tons of sulfide ore mined from the property. To date, a total of approximately 30,517 ounces of gold has been produced at the Tonkin property.
Beginning in 1990, we have had a series of joint venture partners at the Tonkin property. These partners include Homestake Mining Company, Sudbury Contact Mines Limited, a subsidiary of Agnico-Eagle Mines Limited, and BacTech Mining Corporation. As a group, these companies conducted various types of exploration, including data compilation, geologic mapping, rock, soil and chemical sampling, and drilling, all focused primarily on the development of near-surface oxide and later, sulfide mineralization. For a variety of reasons, some of which are unknown to us, these relationships were terminated, returning 100% ownership of the property to us in 2005. We commenced a comprehensive drilling program in 2006, following an equity financing.
Recent Exploration. The following table summarizes drilling at our Tonkin Complex during 2010 and 2009:
As noted in the previous table, drilling at the Tonkin Complex for 2010 totaled 8,001 ft. (2,439 m) in five core and flooded reverse circulation drill holes. Additional exploration efforts at the Complex included continued geologic mapping and sampling. The objective of the 2010 program at the Tonkin Complex was to explore for feeders to the known mineralization in the South Mine Corridor area, testing new targets adjacent to the known mineralization identified through our three-dimensional modeling completed in 2009.
The following graphic depicts the Tonkin Complex:
During 2008, a technical report completed on the Tonkin property estimated that mineralized material totals 35.6 million tons with an average grade of 0.041 opt of gold. Mineralized material cutoff grades were 0.018 opt of gold for sulfide and 0.012 opt of gold for oxide. This report provides a technical summary of the existing exploration and development activities and results, and the mineral potential of the Tonkin property. It was prepared in accordance with NI 43-101. The full text of this report is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
The 2010 exploration program at Tonkin was directed by in-house three-dimensional modeling that utilized surface geology, surface geochemistry, drill hole geochemistry, drill hole geology, drill hole and surface structure, and geophysical surveys. The program consisted of two flooded reverse circulation drill holes totaling 3,270 feet (997 m) and three core holes that tested three separate targets in the eastern area. Although none of these holes intersected ore grade mineralization, two contained anomalous gold mineralization (up to 1.6 ppm) with anomalous pathfinder elements. The significance of this mineralization is currently being evaluated.
Geology. The geology of the Tonkin Complex area is complicated. The primary host for mineralization is the Cambro-Ordovician Hales Formation, which consists of sandy limestones, siltstones, shales, and greenstones in the Mine Corridor area. These rocks are in apparent structural contact with Ordovician rocks of the Vinini Formation, Devonian Slaven Chert, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation and the Devonian Devils Gate Limestone. This assemblage has been intruded locally by Tertiary porphyritic dacite and andesite dikes. All rocks east and west of the Mine Corridor are overlain by Tertiary volcanic rocks. Gold mineralization is found in all of the rock types of the Hales Formation, Slaven Chert, and McColley Canyon Formation, as well as at the contact between internal units. Spotty gold occurs in other units in the Mine Corridor, but it has not been recorded in economic amounts to date.
Patty Project. The Tonkin Complex also includes the Patty Project, in which the Company holds a non-operating minority interest (30%) and where Barrick Gold U.S. Inc. ("Barrick") is manager and holds a 60% interest and the remaining 10% is owned by Chapleau Resources Ltd. The Patty Project is a large property (approximately 18.1 sq. miles) located in the northeast portion of the Tonkin Complex and consists of 544 unpatented mining claims. The 2010 exploration program expenditures totaled approximately $152,225, of which our portion was $45,668. In November 2009, Barrick informed us that it intended to cease management of the exploration program. An amendment to the joint venture agreement would need to be executed should that occur.
In addition to exploration conducted during 2010, we completed the reclamation of certain access roads, and other existing disturbed areas at the Tonkin Complex.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, we submitted a mine closure plan to the BLM for the Tonkin Complex. Based on our estimate, the change in our bonding requirements was insignificant. Our closure plan is currently under review by the BLM.
The mineral interests included in the Tonkin Complex are set forth in the following table:
Tonkin North. The 372 claims (included in the 1,478 under "US Gold's Historic Tonkin Property" amount above) covering the area of the property known as Tonkin North are owned by unaffiliated parties and were previously held by us under a lease agreement. This lease expired on January 1, 2011. We have executed an agreement to acquire these claims, as described below.
Cornerstone Property Lease. The Company held an interest of in 106 claims (included in the 156 under "Cornerstone" amount above) in the Cornerstone property, pursuant to a mining lease made effective as of May 25, 2004. This lease expired on January 1, 2011.
On February 10, 2011, we entered into a binding letter of intent with the owners of the Tonkin North and Cornerstone claims for the purchase of those claims. Pursuant to the letter of intent, we have agreed to pay an aggregate of CDN$8.4 million for the claims and grant the seller a 2% net smelter return royalty interest on any gold produced from the claims in excess of 682,000 ounces of gold. The parties have not yet negotiated and entered into definitive documentation for the transaction. If the transaction is consummated, we will use cash on hand to pay the purchase price for the claims. If we do not consummate the transaction to purchase the claims, our total interest in the Tonkin Complex will be reduced by 478 claims or 13.96 square miles, and, as a result, we estimate that our interest in the previously announced mineralized material identified at the Tonkin Complex will be reduced by approximately 38%. If the transaction is not consummated, we will file amended technical reports under NI 43-101 on the Tonkin Complex to reflect our reduced interests in the Tonkin Complex.
Gold Bar Complex
The Gold Bar Complex is located south of the Tonkin Complex on the continuation of the Cortez Trend. The Gold Bar Complex is in the Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada,
approximately 30 miles (48 km) northwest of the town of Eureka. The Complex may be accessed by traveling approximately 26 miles (42 km) west of Eureka on U.S. Highway 50, 17 miles (27 km) north on county-maintained and graded Three Bar Road. Several unimproved dirt roads lead from there up into the project area.
The following graphic depicts the Gold Bar Complex:
In April 2010, we announced completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") for the Gold Bar Project. This study was prepared by Telesto as a follow up on the updated technical report completed in accordance with NI 43-101 standards by Telesto in April 2009. The complete text of the PEA is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and our website at www.usgold.com/resources. The 2009 report was based on 1,369 drill holes from historic Atlas drillings programs, 19 holes drilled in 2005-2006 by White Knight Resources Ltd., and 20 holes drilled by us in 2008. The 2010 PEA study included an additional 107 reverse circulation holes, totaling 69,930 ft. (21,315 m), drilled by us in 2009. The estimate for the PEA consists of 33.3 million tons of mineralized material at an average grade of 0.027 opt of gold.
The updated technical report from 2009 also included an estimate for the Cabin Creek Project located just east of the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge Project. The report estimates that the Cabin Creek Property contains 3.2 million tons of mineralized material at an average grade of 0.024 opt of gold. No mining has been done on the Cabin Creek Project. The Cabin Creek estimate is based on 165 reverse circulation drill holes.
The following table summarizes drilling at our Gold Bar Complex during 2010 and 2009:
Exploration drilling at the Gold Bar Complex in 2010 totaled approximately 31,995 ft. (9,752 m) in 44 reverse circulation drill holes that were focused on extensions to the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge and Cabin Creek mineralization. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling were also conducted on the property. Exploration drilling was guided by the detailed cross-sections that were constructed to define mineralization during preparation of the mineralized material analysis.
The 2010 drilling focused on these trends and continued to expand the gold mineralization. The best intercepts from this drilling are shown below:
The Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs on the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt in a large window of lower-plate carbonate rocks surrounded by upper-plate rocks. The lower-plate carbonates at Gold Pick-Gold Ridge consist of an east-dipping section of Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation, Devonian Denay Formation, and Devonian Devils Gate Limestone (from oldest to youngest). Northwest-trending and northeast-trending structures cut the area; the Gold Pick mineralization is localized in an apparent northwest-trending horst of McColley Canyon Formation which is cut by a series of northeast-trending structures.
Gold mineralization is hosted primarily in the Bartine Member of the McColley Canyon Formation, which consists of carbonate wackestones and packstones approximately 250 to 380 feet thick. Minor amounts of mineralization are found in the underlying dolomitic limestone Kobeh Member of the McColley Canyon Formation when it is adjacent to apparent feeder structures. Gold Pick-Gold Ridge is "Carlin-Type" sediment-hosted gold mineralization with typical associated alteration (decalcification, silicification) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury, and barium).
Three-dimensional modeling by our geologists has led to the identification of an unconformity (erosional surface) between the basement and gold host rocks at the Gold Bar Project. Channels in this unconformity were filled with porous limestone, which then acted as preferred pathways for gold mineralization. Most of the gold mineralization in the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs in the porous limestones above these channels. These channels were the focus of some of the exploration drilling in 2010 and will continue to be targets for exploration in 2011.
Exploration in 2010 was conducted under various BLM Notices of Intent. All disturbances were reclaimed as per BLM regulation.
In September 2010, SRK Consulting was awarded a contract to conduct a pre-feasibility study at Gold Bar. During the fourth quarter of 2010, 11 metallurgical holes and three geotechnical holes were completed to support the pre-feasibility study. With the exception of two, all of these holes were core holes. The pre-feasibility study is scheduled to be completed by the first of October 2011.
US Gold's objective is to lengthen the projected mine-life at Gold Bar through exploration and optimization concurrent with the completion of the pre-feasibility study. Highlights of the 2010 PEA are as follows:
•Projected annual production of approximately 57,000 ounces of gold over a 6 year mine life, at an estimated cash cost of $557 per ounce (oz).
•Pre-tax estimated discounted Net Present Value ("NPV") of $105 million at $1,150 per oz gold and 6% discount rate, giving an estimated Internal Rate of Return ("IRR") of 60%.
•Estimated initial capital expenditure of $40 million, life-of-mine ("LOM") capital expenditure of $47 million, and pay-back period of 3 years at $1,150 per oz gold.
Mineral interests included in the Gold Bar Complex are set forth in the following table:
Limo Property
The Limo Property is located in east-central Nevada, along the eastern portion of Butte Valley and along the western edge of the Cherry Creek Range. It is located about 40 miles northwest of Ely, the county seat of White Pine County, at the southern end of the Carlin Trend.
The project area lies between the historic Cherry Creek Mining District to the northeast and the deeply buried Butte Valley copper-molybdenum porphyry deposit to the southwest. The northeast-trending Black Metals fault system stretches between the two areas, and controls mineralization along its 15 mile (24 km) length. Access is gained from US Highway 93 via the town of Cherry Creek, and
from US 50 via the Thirty Mile gravel road. Except for periods of heavy snowfall or excessive mud, the property is accessible most of the year.
When the Limo Property was acquired in 2007, it was a large, 30 sq. mile (78 sq. km) property with historic production of approximately 93,000 ounces of gold. With additional claim staking in 2007 and 2008, the property position now totals approximately 44 sq. miles (114 sq km). Gold mineralization has been identified in numerous places along the 15 mile (24 km) length of the property.
Gold mineralization at the Limo Complex is localized along northeast- and northwest- trending fault zones, where favorable calcareous beds have been replaced within the Devonian-Mississippian Pilot and the Mississippian Chainman formations. The mineralization is "Carlin-style", with its associated alteration (decalcification, silicification, and argillization) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury and barium) suites.
The following graphic depicts the Limo Complex:
A technical report compliant with NI 43-101 standards was completed on the Limo Project by Telesto in July 2009. This report estimates that the Resurrection Ridge/Golden Butte area of the Limo property contains mineralized material of 9 million tons at an average grade of 0.023 opt of gold. The complete text of this report is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and our website at www.usgold.com/resources.
The Telesto report is based on 680 drill holes from historic drilling programs by Amselco, Alta Bay, Kennecott and others and 32 holes drilled by us in 2007. Sets of east-west and north-south
cross sections were created at 30-meter intervals. Geologic parameters and gold grades were plotted on the sections. Geologic and structural data from surface mapping were transferred to the sections. Geological boundaries were rectified between sections and then gold envelopes were drawn to constrain interpolation of grades in the block model.
Exploration drilling at the Limo Property in 2010 totaled approximately 12,907 ft. (3,934 m) in 15 diamond drill core holes and 13 reverse circulation drill holes. The drilling was focused on two new targets, Cadillac and Continental, outside the existing mineralization.
Cadillac drilling focused on an area where gold was found beneath thick alluvial cover. This new zone has been intersected in six holes, and the highlights are listed in the table below. This mineralization is contained within an extensive zone of jasperoid, developed where favorable Pilot shale lies along NE-trending faults. The Pilot has been silicified and mineralized for hundreds of feet in some areas. Guilmette limestone and Simonson dolomite usually lie beneath the gold-bearing zones and are only weakly mineralized.
Highlights of Cadillac Drilling Results:
Continental drilling explored a northeast-trending outcropping vein containing high silver and gold values. Core holes were drilled to intersect the vein, and resulted in several mineralized intercepts. The vein was intersected in holes for a strike length of 20 meters, with the widest intersection of 15 meters down-hole. The mineralization consists of gossanous iron and manganese oxides with silicification, carbonate and barite.
Highlights of Continental Drilling Results:
Recoveries from historic mining, CN-soluble gold assays, and preliminary metallurgical tests conducted on 2007 drill core indicate that mineralization at the Limo Complex is primarily oxide in nature and amenable to current heap-leach technology.
The mineral interests controlled by us at the Limo property consist of 1,392 contiguous claims that cover approximately 44 square miles (114 sq km). The land package extends for about 15 miles (24 km), and covers much of the western side of the southern Cherry Creek Range.
The Limo Property was previously subject to a joint venture between Nevada Pacific and Newmont Gold Company ("Newmont"), and in March 2003, Nevada Pacific acquired Newmont's interest in return for a sliding scale (1.5% to 2.5%) net smelter return royalty on all production from the property and from any claim acquired by Nevada Pacific within one mile of the property, with an advance payment to Newmont of $1 million to be made at the commencement of commercial production and credited against future royalty payments. Newmont has subsequently assigned this royalty interest to Franco-Nevada Corporation.
Battle Mountain Complex
In conjunction with the acquisitions in 2007, we acquired various property interests which have been grouped under the designation "Battle Mountain Complex." The Battle Mountain Complex is generally located within Humboldt and Lander Counties in the valleys and on the flanks of the mountains surrounding Battle Mountain on the Cortez Trend north of our Tonkin complex. Battle Mountain, Nevada, located off Interstate 80, is the closest town.
The following graphic depicts the Battle Mountain Complex:
In 2010, exploration drilling in the Battle Mountain Complex totaled 11,335 ft. (3,455 m). Drilling took place at the Blue Bird, Hits and Valmy projects. There were no drilling activities in 2009.
Two holes were drilled on the Hits project, with the objective of drilling through the alluvial and volcanic cover into relatively shallow mineralization. The alluvium and volcanics proved to be thicker than anticipated and drilling conditions were too difficult to allow their penetration. Due to this unfavorable situation, the property was dropped.
The East Marigold target was drilled with several holes. Weakly anomalous gold was found near the bottom of only one hole. Due to the absence of favorable host rocks found in the drilling, along with the considerable depth of alluvial cover, this property was also dropped.
The general exploration model for the Battle Mountain Complex is Carlin-style mineralization contained in structurally-controlled, intrusive-related, quartz-adularia-sericite, low-sulfidation deposits, and/or skarn mineralization.
The mineral interests included in the Battle Mountain Complex are set forth in the following table:
Other United States Properties
Through the acquisitions completed during 2007, we acquired a number of additional mineral properties in Nevada, some of which are subject to option agreements as discussed further below.
Mineral interests included in Other Properties are set forth in the following table:
Royalty and Earn In Rights. The mineral properties included in the acquisition of Tone (Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone, Big Antelope Springs, Red Ridge, Fish Creek and Kent Springs) are generally subject to a 1% net smelter return royalty interest in favor of KM Exploration Ltd, a Nevada limited liability company. Certain properties (Roberts Creek, Kobeh, Gold Bar North, South Keystone and Big Antelope Springs) are also subject to earn-in rights in favor of Teck Cominco American Incorporated ("Teck"), pursuant to a 2004 Financing and Acquisition
Agreement ("Acquisition Agreement"). Pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement, Teck has the right to acquire a joint venture interest in certain of our properties subject to the Acquisition Agreement. In order to acquire a joint venture interest in any property, certain contingencies and benchmarks outlined in the Acquisition Agreement which are intended to benefit a specific property must be satisfied. Such benchmarks include for example: (i) Teck funding certain minimum holding, exploration, and development activities for the property; (ii) Teck arranging financing for the development of the property; and (iii) Teck having feasibility reports prepared for the property. The Acquisition Agreement assigns various equity earn-in percentages in the joint venture to Teck's various levels of expenditures on the property. Depending on the benchmarks and related contractual contingencies satisfied, Teck has an opportunity to acquire a joint venture interest of between 51%-75% of our interest in a maximum of two properties. Teck also has certain first rights of refusal if the Company determines to sell the Red Ridge property. Through December 31, 2010, the required contractual contingencies and benchmarks had not been satisfied to enable Teck to earn a joint venture interest in any of the properties subject to the Acquisition Agreement.
New Pass and Squaw Creek. In 2004, White Knight entered into an option agreement on the New Pass and Squaw Creek properties with Consolidated Odyssey Exploration Inc. ("Odyssey") whereby Odyssey may earn an initial 50% interest in each property. To earn this, Odyssey needs to provide cash payments to White Knight (which we acquired in 2007) of $500,000, 500,000 of its common shares per property (which have been paid) and spend $2,000,000 in exploration expenditures per property over a four-year period. Odyssey may earn an additional 10% interest in each property by financing the completion of a feasibility study. On September 30, 2005, Odyssey assigned all its rights under the option agreement to Bonaventure Enterprises Inc., a Canadian corporation ("Bonaventure"). Bonaventure alleges that its exploration expenditures reached the $2,000,000 earn-in mark during 2008 and the parties are currently investigating the formation of the joint venture. According to the original option agreement, Bonaventure will be the operator of the newly formed joint venture. Bonaventure did not complete the requirements to earn an additional 10% interest in the property.
Mexican Properties
The Company has property in Mexico which includes the El Gallo, Magistral and the Palmarito properties in Sinaloa state. El Gallo was first discovered in 2008 by US Gold geologists. There was no recorded exploration or production from the area. The Magistral Mine produced approximately 70,000 ounces of gold from 2002-2005 before it was shut down due to higher than anticipated operating costs and a lack of working capital. In late 2006, the Magistral mine was placed on a care and maintenance basis. The Palmarito Project was Sinaloa's largest producer of silver prior to 1950.
Including the projects discussed above, we currently control mineral concessions of approximately 1,525 sq. miles (3,950 sq. km) located in the Mexican states of Sinaloa and Nayarit. We hold our interests through ownership of Pangea Resources Inc. which in turn holds 100 percent ownership of Compania Minera Pangea S.A. de C.V. ("Minera Pangea"). The titles are granted under Mexican mining law and are issued by Secretaria de Economía, Coordinación General de Mineria, Dirección General de Minas (Dirección de Minas).
The following map depicts the location of El Gallo, Magistral and Palmarito.
El Gallo Project
The El Gallo Project is located in Sinaloa state, northwestern Mexico in Mocorito Municipality. Access to El Gallo is from the city of Culiacan via the four-lane Pacific Highway (Highway 15) for a distance of 60 miles (100 km) to the city of Guamuchil. From Guamuchil a local paved road extends 12.5 miles (20 km) to the east toward Mocorito. US Gold's concessions are located approximately 2.5 miles (4.0 km) north of Mocorito. The El Gallo Project includes three primary areas containing mineralized material: El Gallo, Magistral and Palmarito.
El Gallo
In July 2010, we completed an initial estimate of mineralized material at El Gallo. The estimate was prepared by PAH in accordance with NI 43-101. In November 2010, PAH updated the El Gallo estimate to approximately 7.5 million tonnes of mineralized material with an average grade of 110.6 gpt for silver and 0.09 gpt for gold using a higher grade milling method and 5.1 million tonnes of mineralized material with an average grade of 28.5 gpt of silver and 0.03 gpt of gold using a lower
grade heap leach method. The complete text of this report is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and our website at www.usgold.com/resources. El Gallo became a priority for US Gold after high grade silver mineralization was discovered during the fall of 2008. Although there has been some minor prospecting in the area, there is no historic mining of any significance. The mineralization at El Gallo is mainly silver, with minor gold-lead-zinc probably contributed by a separate mineralizing event.
The El Gallo Project lies within two US Gold-controlled concessions called Rocío Fracción A and Pangea (see map below). These concessions have an area of 86,487 acres and 3,942 acres respectively. US Gold controls all the immediate properties surrounding El Gallo.
PAH also completed a Preliminary Economic Assessment (the "El Gallo PEA") for the El Gallo Project (that also included Magistral and Palmarito) in February 2011. The complete text of this report is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and our website at www.usgold.com/resources. The El Gallo PEA focused on a development plan involving surface mining from various locations and having the ore processed at a central facility, with an estimated total mill capacity of 6,000 tons per day. Lower grade ore would be processed at approximately 3,250 tons per day by crushing and heap leaching. The El Gallo PEA estimated average mine production of 5.0 million ounces of silver and 50,245 ounces of gold annually during a six year mine life. Based on an assumed gold price of $1,000 per ounce, the estimated cash cost net of by-product credit is $5.90 per silver ounce. Estimated costs fall to $2.44 per
silver ounce based on an assumed gold price of $1,350 per ounce. At an assumed silver price of $18.00 per ounce and a gold price of $1,000 per ounce, the El Gallo PEA calculates a pre-tax discounted (5%) net present value of $155 million, giving a pre-tax internal rate of return of 27%. These numbers increase to $521 million and 65% based on an assumed silver price of $28.50 per ounce and an assumed gold price of $1,350 per ounce. The total capital expenditures to construct the mine are estimated at $149.2 million. The El Gallo PEA is preliminary in nature and includes inferred mineral resources that are considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as reserves under Guide 7. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of inferred resources exist, or that they can be mined legally or economically. At this time, there is no certainty that the preliminary assessment and economics estimated in the El Gallo PEA will be realized.
Exploration work completed in 2010 at El Gallo consisted mainly of core and conventional rotary drilling and geochemical surface sampling. A total of 813 (2009-11,665) soil samples and 1,521 (2009-3,845) rock samples were taken at the El Gallo Project during 2010. Drilling at El Gallo totaled 139,443 ft. (42,502 m) in 2010 (2009-58,583 ft. (17,856 m)). The most significant core intercepts are highlighted below:
El Gallo occurs within the Pie de la Sierra physiographic province of the Sierra Madre Occidental Range, which is part of a late Jurassic to middle Cretaceous volcanic-arc. Tertiary volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks overlay Paleozoic and Mesozoic metamorphic rocks which may be locally cut by Cretaceous intrusive rocks.
The oldest rocks in the region are andesite porphyries that occur widely throughout the area. These are cut by intrusions of late Cretaceous-early Tertiary age, ranging from tonalite to granodiorite in composition. These rocks are discordantly overlain by early Tertiary andesites, andesite tuffs, and andesite porphyries which are the principal host rocks to the mineralized structures that occur throughout the district. The oldest rocks seen in outcrop are Cretaceous in age. This includes locally fossiliferous limestones, sandy limestones, and limy sandstones that crop out to the south and northwest of El Gallo, where they are altered to garnet-epidote skarn with very local tremolite-actinolite skarn.
The Cretaceous calcareous rocks are overlain discordantly by a thick package of andesitic rocks of Middle Cretaceous age. The sequence is composed of coarse-grained andesite flows (turkey track), fine-grained andesite porphyry flows, aphanitic andesite flows and andesite lithic tuffs. Coarse-grained granite-granodiorites of the Laramide Sinaloa Batholith intrude both Cretaceous sequences. The Cretaceous sedimentary and volcanic rocks, as well as the lower Tertiary volcanics, are also locally cut by younger dikes of quartz-eye rhyolitic porphyry and fine-to-medium grained diorite stocks that are of a later stage than the main batholith, possibly of lower Tertiary age. These dikes and stocks are interpreted to be the source of the mineralized hydrothermal fluids responsible for the El Gallo and Magistral deposits.
The northern part of El Gallo is characterized by the presence of a thick sequence of volcanic rocks, mainly andesitic flows, that discordantly overlie the Cretaceous andesitic rocks and are hydrothermally altered, forming part of the host rock for the mineralized structures.
The Cretaceous and lower Tertiary units are covered by rhyolitic to rhyodacitic flows of probable mid-Tertiary age which are then capped by upper Tertiary basaltic andesitic flows.
Various environmental permits, which are issued by Secretariat of Environmental and Natural Resources, the Mexican Government environmental authority ("SEMARNAT") are required in order perform exploration drilling in Sinaloa state, Mexico. Permitting requirements are dependent upon the level of disturbance. Exemptions can generally be obtained if drilling occurs in areas where no new disturbance will occur and vegetation will not be removed (agricultural areas, dirt roads, previously mined sites). If drilling occurs on previously undisturbed land and vegetation will be removed, an Environmental Impact Study and Land Use Change are required. In addition to US Gold's environmental employees, Heuristica Ambiental, environmental consultants from Hermosillo, Sonora, work with the Company in order to permit US Gold's exploration activities. Each of the areas where US Gold is currently conducting exploration drilling has the required permit or exemption.
The Repadre Capital Corporation (owned by IAMGOLD Corporation) holds a net smelter return ("NSR") royalty based upon the quantity of gold or gold equivalent produced by the project. The royalty covers both El Gallo and the Magistral Mine Property. For production up to 30,000 ounces, a 1.5 percent royalty is due. For production between 30,000 and 350,000 ounces, a royalty of 3.5 percent is required. Above 350,000 ounces the royalty drops to 1 percent. Since Magistral has already produced more the 70,000 ounces of gold the 1.5 percent royalty is no longer in effect and production up to the 350,000 ounces will be subject to the 3.5 percent royalty rate.
Magistral Mine Property
In November 2010, an estimate of mineralized material was completed by PAH in accordance with NI 43-101. The report estimates approximately 10.4 million tonnes of mineralized material with a grade
of 1.50 gpt of gold. The complete text of this report is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and our website at www.usgold.com/resources.
The mineralization at the Magistral Mine Property is classified as a low-sulfidation epithermal gold-silver mineral system. The presence of biotite and K-feldspar, the lack of clay minerals, and the overprint of biotite by chlorite indicate that these veins were formed deep in the epithermal system. The main alteration and assemblages consist of quartz-chlorite/biotite-hematite, and minor sulphides.
Mineralization within the various deposits of the Magistral Mine Property mine area is generally very similar, with the individual structural zones consisting of stockwork, breccia, and locally quartz vein mineralization occurring within sheared, broken, and propylitically altered volcanic rocks.
Modern exploration activities at the Magistral Mine Property started in early 1995, initially for Mogul Mining NL and subsequently for Santa Cruz Gold Inc. From mid-1995 to early 1997, extensive drilling was conducted by Minera Pangea/Santa Cruz Gold on the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposit areas, as well as locally extensive drilling on the Sagrado Corazón-Central-Lupita deposit area. In 1998, Santa Cruz conducted a limited amount of additional drilling for metallurgical samples, reverse circulation grade verification, in-fill purposes, and condemnation of potential surface facility locations. In 1999, after a merger with Santa Cruz Gold, Queenstake conducted a limited drilling program to step-out/in-fill drill in the Samaniego Hill deposit and to obtain pit-slope geotechnical samples from both the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits. Queenstake conducted a drilling campaign from late 2001 to early 2002 in the La Prieta Zone of the Samaniego Hill deposit to delineate extensions of the high grade La Prieta zone along strike and down dip.
The Magistral Mine Property includes infrastructure associated with heap leach operations at the mine site and is currently used as our base for exploration. Infrastructure at Magistral includes offices and process buildings, as well as a heavy equipment maintenance shop and warehouse. An in-house laboratory has the capacity for fire assays along with atomic absorption, and includes a standard metallurgical testing facility. Telecommunications are provided by a microwave system that supplies modern telephone and internet service. The process plant includes a carbon circuit with a capacity of 12 tons of activated carbon. The gold recovery system includes a zinc precipitation circuit. The plant is powered by four 175 kW diesel generators. In 2009, we sold the four CAT 777B haul trucks and five Euclid R-50 trucks due to the age of the equipment for net proceeds of $654,637. The remaining heavy fleet of used equipment includes various loaders, excavators, bulldozers and conventional rotary drills. During 2009, with the assistance of a third party valuator, it was determined that our carrying value of this equipment were greater than the net realizable value. As a result, for the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a write-off of long-lived assets of $760,355. There were no changes to the carrying value of this equipment as at December 31, 2010.
In October 2006, the mine was placed on care and maintenance. The pumping of solutions and operation of other plant equipment will continue on an "as needed" basis to maintain safe pond levels and to ensure that the plant equipment can be returned to service when and if a decision to restart the mine is made. Staffing levels have been maintained to the minimum required for these efforts and also to support exploration in the mine area.
The following map depicts the key mineralized areas at the Magistral Mine Property and surface facilities
Palmarito Project
Palmarito is one of Sinaloa's major historic producers of silver. Total production is estimated to be 15,300,000 ounces of silver and 49,250 ounces of gold from open pit and underground workings before mining ceased in 1950.
During 2008, US Gold signed an option agreement to buy 100 percent of a third party concession containing 0.5 sq. miles (1 sq. km) in the Palmarito area. The exercise of the option brought the immediate project area to a total of approximately 3 sq. miles (8 sq. km). The option agreement provides US Gold with the right to purchase the 2 percent NSR royalty for $1 million during the term of option agreement and up to 12 months thereafter. The NSR primarily impacts the mineralized material contained in the historic tailings.
Core drilling totaled approximately 8,817 ft (2,687 m) in 2010 (2009-1,465 ft. (447 m)) with the objective of identifying and confirming new mineralized zones. An NI 43-101 compliant technical report was completed at the Palmarito Project by PAH in December 2008 and updated in November 2010.
The most recent report estimates that mineralized material for the Palmarito consists of 3.7 million tonnes of material with an average grade of 71 gpt of silver and 0.14 gpt of gold.
The following map depicts the concessions that are 100% owned by US Gold and those where the Company has an option to earn a 100% interest at Palmartio:
Palmarito is a low-sulfidation, epithermal silver deposit. These deposit types occur commonly throughout the Sierra Madres in Mexico. Known mineralization at Palmarito occurs along or near the northeastern intrusive contact where the structures forming the intrusive contact strike roughly E-W and N-S. Near surface, these structures are mineralized, forming a horseshoe-shaped zone which wraps around the margin of the intrusive. Commonly, strongly silicified and stockwork-veined andesite occurs above and below the breccia at the contact. The breccias consist of clast-supported, coarse angular
fragments of rhyolite and fine- to medium-grained andesite. Clasts are cemented by fine-grained, white silica. Generally, Palmarito mineralization is characterized by strong silicification.
Other Exploration Areas
During 2010 US Gold drill tested other prospects in the vicinity of El Gallo, which resulted in the discovery of four new veins. The Gold Zone Vein, located 1,650 ft (500 m) South East of El Gallo, the Alamo Vein, located 4.5 miles (7 km) north of El Gallo, the Oro Vein, located 20 miles (32 km) North East of El Gallo and the Chapotillo vein, located 6.5 miles (10.5 km) north of El Gallo. Some of the results obtained in this drilling campaign are shown below:
Gold Zone Vein
•GZX-002: 7.7 gpt gold over 4.8m, including 22.2 gpt gold over 1.1m
•GZX-001: 6.4 gpt gold over 3.1m, including 10.8 gpt gold over 1.2m Alamo Vein
•SJX-002: 9.3 gpt gold over 1.7m
•SJX-009: 7.6 gpt gold over 1.7m
•SJX-010: 4.2 gpt gold over 6m including 7.9 gpt gold over 1.4m Oro Vein
•POX-002: 7.4 gpt gold over 0.9m
•POX-003: 5.9 gpt gold over 0.9m Chapotillo
•CHX-007: 236.2 gpt silver and 1.6 gpt gold over 18.6m* (* includes 3.1m of no sample where the core hole intercepted an underground working)
•CHX-011: 274 gpt silver and 2.4 gpt gold over 1.3m
•CHX-009: 104.4 gpt silver and 1.8 gpt gold over 2.7m
ITEM 3.