ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: "Production Properties" and "Exploration Properties". Our designation of certain properties as "Production Properties" should not suggest that we have proven or probable reserves at those properties as defined by the SEC. Our significant production and exploration properties are described below.
Production Properties
San José Mine, Argentina (49%)
For detailed information on the San José mine production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
The San José mine is an underground mine located in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, and operated by a subsidiary of Hochschild, MSC. The San José mine is part of a larger property, which covers a total area of approximately 730 sq. miles. (1,892 sq. km) and consists of 108 mining concessions (consisting of 19 Minas or approved mining claims; 79 Manifestaciones de Descubrimiento, or claims that are in the application process for mining claim status; and 10 Cateos, or claims that are for exploration only). This includes the mineral rights that were transferred to MSC pursuant to a vend-in agreement between the Company and Hochschild (described in further detail in Item 2 - Properties, Other Argentina Properties, below), which was completed in October 2013. Under this agreement, we agreed to contribute to MSC the mining rights to a certain number of our Santa Cruz exploration properties, totaling approximately 50,000 hectares, with Hochschild also contributing to MSC certain of its mineral properties located in the same region, totaling approximately 89,200 hectares. The registration of title change for these 57 mining concessions, consisting of 46 Manifestaciones de Descubrimiento, and 11 Cateos,(claims that are for exploration only) were finalized in the second quarter of 2014.
We acquired our interest in this property in connection with the acquisition of Minera Andes in January 2012. The property was acquired by Minera Andes in 1997, following completion of a regional geological study. Minera Andes embarked on an exploration program from 1997 to 2001, which led to the discovery of the silver and gold bearing Huevos Verdes and Saavedra West Zones. In March 2001 (and subsequently amended by agreements dated May 14, 2002, August 27, 2002, September 10, 2004, and September 17, 2010), an option and joint venture agreement was signed between Minera Andes (49%) and Hochschild (51%) covering the San José property. Under the terms of the OJVA, a subsidiary of Hochschild acquired a majority interest in the property and title to the San José property and the San José mine is held by MSC, the holding and operating company set up under the terms of the OJVA. MSC has purchased the land and corresponding occupation rights that are necessary to conduct its operations. All of the known mineralized zones, mineral resources and mineral reserves and active mine workings, existing tailing ponds and waste are within MSC's concessions.
Location and Access
The San José property is located in the District of Perito Moreno, in Santa Cruz, Argentina, lying approximately between latitude 46°41'S and 46°47'S and longitude 70°17'W and 70°00'W. The mine is 1,087 miles (1,750 kilometers) south-southwest of Buenos Aires and 217 miles (350 kilometers) southwest of the Atlantic port of Comodoro Rivadavia. The principal access route to the San José property is an unsealed dirt road section of 20 miles (32 kilometers) and then tarmac road to the port of Comodoro Rivadavia, a total distance of 217 miles (350 kilometers). Comodoro Rivadavia has scheduled national air services to Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina, with international air connections. The nearest town is Perito Moreno, which is approximately 19 miles (30 kilometers) west of the San José property.
The following map depicts the location of the San José property in relation to other third-party properties at the time of filing this report.
The San José property is within an arid to semi-arid area of Argentina, with short, warm summers reaching temperatures above 70°F (21°C) and winters with temperatures commonly below 32°F (0°C). Strong and persistent winds are common especially during the warmer months (October to May). Average rainfall at the site is estimated to be 5.7 inches (144 millimeters) and snowfall amounts to 1.3 inches (32.5 millimeters). Annual average temperature is 48°F (8.9°C). MSC has maintained a weather station at the property since January 2005. Mining and exploration continue year round in this part of Argentina.
Vegetation is comprised of low scrub bushes and grass, typical of harsh climate and poor soils. Fauna consists of birds, small mammals and reptiles. Most of the property area is uninhabited; however, it is used by local farmers for sheep and cattle grazing.
Geology and Mineralization
The San José property is approximately located in the northwest corner of the 23,166 sq. mile (60,000 sq. km) Deseado Massif of the Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. The Deseado Massif consists of Paleozoic metamorphic basement rocks unconformably overlain by Middle to Upper Jurassic bimodal andesitic and rhyolitic volcanics and volcaniclastics. Cretaceous sediments and Tertiary to Quaternary basalts overlie the Jurassic volcanics. The Jurassic Bajo Pobre Formation is the main host of gold and silver vein mineralization at the mine as well as many regional prospects. The Formation also hosts some of the mineralization at Saavedra West Zone. The formation is comprised of a lower andesite volcaniclastic unit and an upper andesite lava flow and has a maximum thickness of 394 ft. (120 m). Mineralization in the San José area occurs as low sulfidation epithermal quartz veins, breccias and stockwork systems accompanying normal-sinistral faults striking 330° to 340°. The main structural trend of fault and vein systems on the property is west-northwest to north-northwest.
Facilities and Infrastructure
Infrastructure of the property consists of camp facilities that can accommodate up to approximately 1,100 personnel, a medical clinic, a security building, a maintenance shop, a laboratory, processing facilities, a mine and process facility warehouse, a surface tailings impoundment, support buildings and mine portals, a change house, a core warehouse, an administration building and offices. The laboratory is equipped to process all assays (core, chips, soil) and incorporates fire assaying and atomic absorption equipment. MSC has installed a satellite-based telephone/data/internet communication system.
The San José mine is a ramp access underground mining operation. The San José veins are accessed from three main portals: the Tehuelche Portal, the Kospi Portal and the Güer Aike Portal. The main ramps are located about 164 ft. (50 m) from the vein, depending on the dip of the ore. Cross-cuts to the ramp are centrally positioned on the vein and usually have an ore pass and a waste/backfill pass.
Electricity is provided by an 81-mile (130 km) 132 kV electric transmission line, which was constructed in 2009 and connects the San José mine processing facility to the national power grid.
The processing plant at the San José mine is composed of conventional crushing, grinding and flotation circuits. Approximately one-half of the silver-gold flotation concentrate is processed in an intensive cyanide leaching circuit with the dissolved gold and silver recovered by electrowinning of a clarified solution followed by smelting to produce doré. The balance of the flotation concentrate is filtered and shipped to a smelter. Flotation and leached tailings are stored in side-by-side engineered, zero discharge facilities. A Merrill Crowe circuit recovers small amounts of gold and silver from the electrowinning discharge solution. In 2012, modifications were undertaken to modify the crushing circuit, in order to increase the mill throughput capacity by 10%, from a nominal 1,500 tonnes per day to 1,650 tonnes per day. The modifications were completed in 2013. In 2013, the capacity of the flotation tailing dam was also increased, followed by the construction of a new tailing dam in 2014. Construction was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014, and operational in the first quarter 2015.
Exploration Activities
Exploration by Minera Andes on the San José property from 1997 to 2001 was concentrated over the northern part of the property and consisted of geological mapping, sampling, trenching, geophysics, alteration and metallurgical studies and reverse circulation ("RC") and diamond drilling. In 2001, an
extensive exploration program was undertaken which included detailed topographic surveying of the property, induced polarization ("IP") geophysics and drilling. Exploration during 2003-2004 consisted of underground exploration/development, environmental and metallurgical studies and the construction and commissioning of a pilot plant at the Huevos Verdes Vein. Surveying of the topography, planned access and infrastructure in the Huevos Verdes and Frea areas was carried out during 2005 to 2007. From 2007 to 2008, a total of 193 diamond drill holes totaling 155,108 ft. (47,277 m) and focused on regional prospects as well as strike extensions of known veins with most of the drilling concentrated on the Ayelén, Frea and Odin veins. From 2009 to 2014, a total of approximately 898,620 ft. (273,900 m) of diamond core drilling was completed. During 2014, a total of 54,520 ft. (16,618 m) of drilling was performed and exploration was focused on definition of the Karina, Guadalupe and Nueva Ramona veins as well as drilling in the Los Pinos area. Detailed surface mapping and sampling over the Los Pinos vein, over an area of 3,500 hectares, was also completed. Mapping of the south side of the San José area covering an area of 520 acres (211 hectares) was also carried out.
Reserves
The following is the reserve information calculated by Hochschild for the San José mine as at December 31, 2013 and therefore does not account for depletion from 2014 production, or reserves delineated during 2014. The 2013 information is the most recent available to us. We expect that Hochschild will report updated reserves as at December 31, 2014 during the first quarter of 2015.
These figures, reported on a 100% basis, were prepared by Hochschild and audited by P&E Mining Consultants Inc. whose report dated March 6, 2014, concluded that the reserve estimates for the San José mine prepared by Hochschild at December 31, 2013 provide a reliable estimation of reserves in accordance with the standards of the Joint Ore Reserve Committee of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy ("JORC"), NI 43-101, the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum ("CIM") best practices and Industry Guide 7. The mineral reserves were estimated using metal prices of $1,200 per ounce of gold and $20 per ounce of silver with a marginal revenue cut-off value of $94.76 per tonne. The reserves as presented are in-place and include mining dilution and mining losses, but do not include allowances for mill or smelter recoveries.
San José Reserves and Resources-100%
El Gallo Complex, Mexico (100%)
For detailed information on the El Gallo 1 mine production statistics and financial results, refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Overview and History
The Company owns a group of properties in Sinaloa State, Mexico, which includes the El Gallo 1 mine and the El Gallo 2 project. The El Gallo property consists of approximately 697 sq. miles (1,807 sq. km) of mineral or mining concessions held through ownership of Pangea Resources Inc., which in turn holds 100% ownership of Compañia Minera Pangea S.A. de C.V. ("Minera Pangea"). Concession titles are granted under Mexican mining law and are issued by the Secretaria de Economía, Coordinación General de Minera, Dirección General de Minas. McEwen Mining acquired El Gallo and the surrounding
mineral concessions when it completed its acquisition of Nevada Pacific Gold Ltd. ("Nevada Pacific") in 2007.
El Gallo 1 refers to the open-pit mine, heap leach operation formerly known as the Magistral mine. The El Gallo 1 mine produced approximately 70,000 ounces of gold from 2002 to 2005 while owned by predecessor companies. Operations at El Gallo 1 were shut down in July 2005 due to higher than anticipated operating costs, a lack of working capital, and poor gold recoveries. In October 2006, while still owned by Nevada Pacific, the El Gallo 1 mine was placed on care and maintenance with the operating permit remaining in place. We purchased the mine as part of our 2007 acquisition of Nevada Pacific.
In 2012, we re-commissioned the mine, at a cost of $13.5 million, which included the costs of upgrading existing infrastructure, such as the heap leach pad and assay lab, as well as installing a three-stage crushing plant and construction of the ADR plant. As we have no proven or probable reserves at the El Gallo 1 mine, the estimated capital expenditures required were based on internal studies. We poured the first gold pour in September 2012, with commercial production commencing January 1, 2013. Since production has restarted, El Gallo 1 has produced a total of 75,807 ounces of gold and 51,039 ounces of silver.
El Gallo 2 refers to the project which, should the Company proceed with its development and construction, would process mineralization from the El Gallo and Palmarito silver deposits through open-pit mining. The El Gallo deposit is a new discovery made by our geology team in November 2008. Although there is a long history of mining in the area, based on field observations, only a minimal amount of artisanal mining appears to have taken place at the El Gallo deposit. There is no recorded history of prior exploration having occurred at the El Gallo deposit. The Palmarito silver deposit is a historic silver producing area that has an estimated historical production of 15,300,000 million ounces of silver and 49,250 ounces of gold from open pit and underground workings before mining ceased in 1950. Palmarito is considered to be one of the major historical producers of silver in Sinaloa State.
An annual lease agreement for surface access to El Gallo 1 and 2 is currently in place between Minera Pangea and certain of our employees who hold the surface rights. These lease agreements provide for access and site preparation to accommodate exploration activities and drilling. The employees who hold the surface rights have commenced the required legal process to convert the land into private ownership so it can be sold to us. We are not required to make any additional payments, as the purchase price was agreed to and paid at the time of the lease agreements. Although the agreements cover a large area around the project, there can be no assurances that additional surface rights will not be required.
Various environmental permits are required in order perform exploration drilling in Sinaloa State. Permitting requirements are dependent upon the level of disturbance. Exemptions can generally be obtained if drilling occurs in areas where no new disturbance will occur and vegetation will not be removed (agricultural areas, dirt roads, previously mined sites). If drilling occurs on previously undisturbed land and vegetation will be removed, an Environmental Impact Study and Land Use Change are required. Each of the areas where we are currently conducting exploration drilling has the required permit or exemption.
As of the date of this report, the El Gallo 1 mine has all necessary permits for current operations, which must be renewed in June 2022. Specific permit-required conditions must be followed during operations such as, but are not limited to; groundwater quality monitoring at four points, recycling of used oil, and the development of an accident prevention plan.
All required permits for construction and operation of El Gallo 2, including environmental permits such as the MIA, ETJ and the RA, have been received. The final environmental permit, relating to the Change of Land Use was received from the SEMARNAT in January 2014.
Two additional permits were submitted in 2014. The first permit is in relation to the mining of the Palmarito deposit, which represents approximately 15% of the projected annual silver production at El Gallo 2. The second permit relates to the right-of-way for a 4.6-mile (7.5 km) 115 kV electric transmission line that would connect the El Gallo 2 processing plant to the national power grid. In the meantime, construction of the mine could begin with power provided by generators with the option of connecting to the grid when the permit is received. Delays in receiving either of these two these permits would not be expected to delay eventual construction from proceeding.
A feasibility study ("FS") was completed on the El Gallo 2 project in September 2012. The FS included a NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate of 24 million tonnes of mineralized material with a weighted average grade of 68.9 gpt silver and 0.1 gpt gold, including measured and indicated resources only. Initial capital expenditures for the project based on the FS are estimated at $180 million, although we are conducting cost savings studies to reduce the initial capital investment required while minimizing the impact on potential production. Potential changes include reducing the number of leach tanks and transformers, building a smaller process plant / refinery and using modular crushers. The complete FS technical report (which does not reflect any of the aforementioned potential changes) was filed on SEDAR on September 28, 2012. We also filed an updated NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate for the El Gallo Complex on August 29, 2013, with an effective date of June 30, 2013. Both reports are available on SEDAR under the Company's profile, and are subject to the assumptions and conditions set forth therein.
A final decision to proceed with the construction of El Gallo 2 has not been made and alternatives to reduce capital and operating costs continue to be examined. Any decision to proceed would be based on improved silver price expectations, improved project economics, and securing financing on terms that are more favorable than those that were available to the Company at the time of filing this report. The Company has procured long-lead time equipment such as the ball mill. The fabrication of the ball mill, which is the longest lead time item associated with the mine, was completed in 2014. Pending a decision to proceed with the development of El Gallo 2, the ball mill will kept in storage at the manufacturer's facilities.
Location and Access
The El Gallo Complex is located in northwestern Mexico, within Sinaloa State, Mocorito Municipality. It is situated approximately 60 miles (100 kilometers) by air northwest of the Sinaloa state capital city of Culiacan in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range. The concessions are located approximately 2.5 miles (4.0 kilometers) by road from the village of Mocorito, approximately 10 miles (16 kilometers) from the town of Guamuchil. Access is either by paved or well maintained, two-way, dirt roads.
The following map depicts the location of the El Gallo Complex:
Geology and Mineralization
Gold mineralization in the El Gallo 1 mine area occurs in six deposits along two distinct structural trends, northwest and northeast. A northwest trending structural zone hosts the Samaniego and San Rafael deposits. San Dimas also is hosted by a northwest-striking structure. The second structural trend is northeast-striking and includes the Sagrado Corazón, Lupita and Central deposits. Along these structural trends the mineralization is located within numerous sub-structures that may be parallel, oblique or even perpendicular to the principal trends. The third structural trend is north-south and includes the San Dimas deposit. Mineralization among the various deposits of the El Gallo 1 area is generally similar, with the individual structural zones consisting of quartz stockwork, breccia, and local quartz vein mineralization occurring within propylitically altered andesitic volcanic rocks. The Samaniego, San Rafael, Lupita, Sagrado Corazon and Central deposits are characterized by gold accompanied by iron oxide and variable copper; the San Dimas deposit is polymetallic containing gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
Silver mineralization at El Gallo 2 is hosted in siliceous breccia zones and quartz stockwork zones within the dominantly andesitic rock package. These zones often occur at lithologic contacts, particularly contacts of Tertiary porphyry intrusions. Multi-lithologic breccias zones are often adjacent to these contacts and these breccias are locally mineralized. Mineral zones commonly have gently-dipping tabular geometry. Often, these zones reflect control by sill contacts of the Tertiary intrusives.
Silver mineralization at Palmarito occurs along or near the contact of andesitic-dacitic volcanic country rocks and a Tertiary rhyolite intrusive forming a horseshoe-shaped zone which wraps around the margin of the intrusive. The strongest mineralization in the main Palmarito orebody occurs along a northeast-trending zone which appears to represent the intersection of two contact structures. Generally, mineralization occurs in a breccia zone and is associated with strong silicification in the form of siliceous breccia, stockwork veining and silica flooding.
Facilities and Infrastructure
The El Gallo property has well-developed infrastructure including electricity and well developed roads. At the El Gallo 1 mine, significant mining has occurred in the past and most recent operations included open pit mining in two pits, with gold and silver ores processed in a heap leaching facility. There is a truck shop, a warehouse, two core logging facilities, heap leach pad, process ponds, laboratory, three stage crushing plant, an ADR process plant and an administrative office. The laboratory is equipped to process all assays (blasthole samples from the mine, core, chips, soil) and incorporates fire assaying and atomic absorption equipment. Included also is a metallurgical lab capable of processing bottle rolls and columns to determine gold and silver recoveries of ores amenable to cyanide leaching.
The crushing and process plant had an initial capacity of 3,000 tonnes per day. In 2014, an expansion to the processing capacity of the plant was completed, increasing from 3,000 to 4,500 tonnes per day, at a cost of approximately of $2.8 million. Commissioning commenced during the second quarter of 2014, and was fully operational by the fourth quarter of 2014.
There is also access to a local work force that is familiar with mining operations. Mining operations and site security are performed by contractors and the Company has its own workforce in the administrative and processing areas.
Primary water supply for El Gallo 1 comes from two currently operating water wells located 0.9 miles (1.5 km) from the process facility. Wells are powered by a generator that pumps water into a raw water pond, and it is then used for operations. The well field combined with local annual precipitation of 32 inches (~830 mm) provide sufficient supply for El Gallo 1 production.
Primary water supply for El Gallo 2 will come from three locally drilled water wells. Sufficient water yields required for the El Gallo 2 project were confirmed through several long-term pumping tests during the 2013 hydraulic aquifer investigation. Each well is located within 1.2 miles (2 km) of the proposed El Gallo process facility. Wells will be powered by electricity and pump water into a raw water storage tank for mine usage.
Exploration Activities
Modern exploration activities at the El Gallo 1 mine property started in early 1995, initially for Mogul Mining NL and subsequently for Santa Cruz Gold Inc ("Santa Cruz Gold"). From mid-1995 to early 1997, extensive drilling was conducted by Minera Pangea/Santa Cruz Gold on the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposit areas, as well as locally extensive drilling on the Sagrado Corazón-Central-Lupita deposit area. In 1998, Santa Cruz conducted a limited amount of additional drilling for metallurgical samples, reverse circulation grade verification, in-fill purposes, and condemnation of potential surface facility locations. In 1999, after a merger with Santa Cruz Gold, Queenstake Resources Ltd. ("Queenstake") conducted a limited drilling program to step-out/in-fill drill in the Samaniego Hill deposit and to obtain pit-slope geotechnical samples from both the San Rafael and Samaniego Hill deposits. Queenstake conducted a drilling campaign from late 2001 to early 2002 in the La Prieta Zone of the Samaniego Hill deposit to delineate extensions of the high grade La Prieta zone along strike and down dip. Between 2004 and 2005, Nevada Pacific Gold Ltd. conducted further drilling on the Samaniego Hill and Lupita areas and determined that the mineralized intercepts expanded the
Lupita envelope at depth to the southeast. Between 2008 and 2013, McEwen Mining also conducted drilling in the Samaniego Hill, San Rafael, Sagrado Corazon, Lupita and Central areas and determined that mineralized intercepts within those holes show continued down dip extension and lateral extension of the Lupita and Sagrado Corazon deposits, in particular. We continue to drill at El Gallo 1 with the objective of extending the mine life, which, based on our mine plan as of December 31, 2014, is estimated to end in 2017. Between 2011 and 2014, we drilled a total of approximately 190,000 feet (60,370 meters) of core drilling at El Gallo 1.
We initiated exploration in the El Gallo area in January 2008. The first evidence of additional mineralization at El Gallo occurred in the summer of 2008 when rock samples from surface outcropping returned encouraging silver values. McEwen Mining has been the sole operator of the El Gallo project since drilling began in January 2009. By December 2014, a total of 427,370 feet (130,262 meters) of core drilling had been completed. Drilling was conducted throughout the El Gallo project area and included condemnation drilling done for planned mine facilities and infrastructure peripheral to the mineralized material.
We have also recently focused our drilling efforts within other areas of the El Gallo Complex, which include CSX, Mina Grande and Twin Domes, in order to expand mineralization for potential El Gallo 1 and 2 production. As of the date of this report, one core drill has continued to operate, with plans to add an additional drill in the year 2015.
No Proven or Probable Reserves
We have not yet demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves at the El Gallo Complex as defined by Industry Guide 7.
Royalties
Coeur Mining Inc. a NYSE and TSX listed company, holds a sliding scale net smelter return royalty ("NSR") on gold or gold equivalent recovered from the El Gallo 1 mine and the El Gallo mineralized material area. The royalty is calculated at a rate of 1% of NSR on the initial 30,000 ounces of gold equivalent production, at a rate of 3.5% of NSR on the next 350,000 ounces of gold equivalent production, and thereafter, at a rate of 1% of NSR on gold recovered from the areas, in perpetuity. Cumulatively, on a life-of-mine basis through to December 31, 2014, approximately 148,000 gold and gold equivalent ounces have been produced from mineralized material within the scope of the NSR agreement. The NSR was previously held by Gold Royalty Corp., a private Canadian Corporation, which was acquired by Coeur Mining Inc. in December 2013.
For Palmarito, a 2% NSR exists on certain mineral claims around the area that were optioned from a third party. The NSR affects strike extensions and down-dip portions of the in-situ mineralized material and the majority of historic tailings.
Exploration Properties
Gold Bar Project, Nevada (100%)
Overview and History
The Gold Bar Project is a proposed mine project consisting of a conventional open pit mine with an oxide gold heap leach recovery circuit. The project is located within the Battle Mountain-Eureka-Cortez gold trend in Eureka County, central Nevada, and covers an area of 71 square miles (185 square kilometers) consisting of 71 claims. The property was previously mined from 1987 to 1994 by Atlas Precious Metals Inc. The Gold Bar project is currently in the permitting phase. The timeline to obtain permits is uncertain, but similar projects on public lands in Nevada have required between 36-60 months. The formal permitting process began in 2012.
A pre-feasibility study ("PFS") was completed by SRK Consulting and filed on February 27, 2012 with an effective date of November 28, 2011. We have yet not demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves for the Gold Bar Project as defined by Industry Guide 7. The PFS included a NI 43-101 resource estimate of 19.5 million tonnes of mineralized material at a grade of 0.95 gpt gold. Based on the PFS, initial capital expenditures for the project are estimated at $53.1 million including an allocation of $7.2 million for contingencies. The full PFS technical report is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com under the Company's profile, and is subject to the assumptions and conditions set forth therein.
Location and Access
The Gold Bar Complex is in the Roberts Creek Mountains, in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 30 miles (48 km) northwest of the town of Eureka, Nevada, primarily in Township 22 North; Range 50 East (N39°48'16.5"; W116°21'09.65").
The project site is accessed by traveling 40 km west on US Highway 50 from Eureka, NV, the nearest town, or 72 km east on US Highway 50 from Austin, NV to the Three Bars Road. Travel is then 26 km north on the Three Bars Road, a gravel, all weather road maintained by Eureka County. The project area is approximately 15 miles (24 km) from the Three Bars Road, and is accessed through unimproved dirt roads that are not maintained by the county.
The following map depicts the location of the Gold Bar Complex:
Geology and Mineralization
The Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs on the Battle Mountain-Eureka mineral belt in a large window of lower-plate carbonate rocks surrounded by upper-plate rocks. The lower-plate carbonates at Gold Pick-Gold Ridge consist of an east-dipping section of Silurian Lone Mountain Dolomite, Devonian McColley Canyon Formation, Devonian Denay Formation, and Devonian Devils Gate Limestone (from oldest to youngest). Northwest-trending and northeast-trending structures cut the area; the Gold Pick mineralization is localized in an apparent northwest-trending horst of McColley Canyon Formation which is cut by a series of northeast-trending structures.
Gold mineralization is hosted primarily in the Bartine Member of the McColley Canyon Formation, which consists of carbonate wackestones and packstones approximately 250 to 380 feet thick. Minor amounts of mineralization are found in the underlying dolomitic limestone Kobeh Member of the McColley Canyon Formation when it is adjacent to apparent feeder structures. Gold Pick-Gold Ridge is "Carlin-Type" sediment-hosted gold mineralization with typical associated alteration (decalcification, silicification) and trace elements (antimony, arsenic, mercury, and barium). Carlin-Type deposits are deposits that are restricted to a small part of the North American Cordillera in northern Nevada and northwest Utah.
Three-dimensional modeling by our geologists has led to the identification of an unconformity (erosional surface) between the basement and gold host rocks at the Gold Bar Project. Channels in this unconformity were filled with porous limestone, which then acted as preferred pathways for gold mineralization. Much of the gold mineralization in the Gold Pick-Gold Ridge area occurs in the porous limestones above these channels.
Exploration Activities
Since 2012, we have continued to advance the permitting process for construction and production. Since the formal permitting process began, we are unable to perform any drilling activities at the project. During this time, we continue to advance the Gold Bar project by completing baseline studies in support of the BLM and State of Nevada permitting required for mine development and construction. We also drilled and pump-tested one potential water well location for future mining operations.
We submitted our Plan Of Operations ("POO") permit application in 2013. The POO was determined complete and the BLM has determined that an Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS") is necessary to fulfill the requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"). Upon completion of the EIS, the BLM will be able to proceed with the approval determination of the POO. A Request for Proposal has been issued and a third-party consulting firm has been contracted to assist the BLM in the preparation of an EIS for the Gold Bar project. Final permit approval is scheduled for the third quarter of 2016.
No Proven or Probable Reserves
We have not yet demonstrated the existence of proven or probable reserves at the Gold Bar Complex as defined by Industry Guide 7.
Los Azules Copper Project, Argentina (100%)
The Los Azules copper project is a 100% owned advanced-stage porphyry copper exploration project located in the cordilleran region of San Juan Province, Argentina near the border with Chile. We acquired this property, along with other Argentina exploration properties, in connection with the acquisition of Minera Andes in January 2012. Located at approximately 31o 13'30" south latitude and 70o 13'50" west longitude, Los Azules is 4 miles (6 km) east of the Chilean-Argentine border. It is
accessible by unimproved dirt roads except for seasonal closures in winter. The elevation at site ranges between 11,500 feet - 14,750 feet (3,500 m - 4,500 m) above sea level.
The following map illustrates the location of the Los Azules Copper Project as well as our other properties in the Province of San Juan:
The deposit is located within a copper porphyry belt that is host to some of the world's largest copper mines. The upper part of the system consists of a barren leached cap, which is underlain by a high-grade secondary enrichment blanket. Primary mineralization below the secondary enrichment zone has been intersected in drilling up to a depth of more than 3,280 feet (1,000 meters) below surface. The property encompasses 127 square miles (328 square kilometers) and surrounds a large alteration zone that is approximately 5 miles (8 kilometers) long by 1.2 miles (2 kilometers) wide.
Drilling programs have been undertaken at Los Azules between 1998 and 2014 by four different mineral exploration companies: Battle Mountain Gold (now Newmont Mining Inc.), Mount Isa Mines S.A. (now Xstrata Copper Plc.), Minera Andes and McEwen Mining. Drilling, including early reverse circulation programs, focused initially on gold exploration and subsequently on diamond drilling for porphyry style copper mineralization. Drilling conditions are difficult, especially in highly faulted zones and in areas of unconsolidated surface scree or talus. Due to snow conditions on two mountain passes on the access road to the site, seasonal exploration typically commences in December and extends into late April or early May. From 1998 to the end of 2014, a total of 195,210 feet (59,500 meters) were drilled on the property. No significant drilling took place during the year 2013-2014
season, as we focused on baseline studies regarding flora, fauna, water quality and other environmental compliance matters.
In November 2013, we filed a NI 43-101 Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") prepared by Samuel Engineering Inc. The PEA was expanded to include an updated mineralized material estimate, which we released in May 2013, indicating a mineralized material base of 0.4 billion tonnes of mineralized material with a weighted average grade of 0.63 percent copper. Note this mineralized material includes indicated resources only, and does not include estimates of inferred resources.
The PEA also considers new metallurgical processes and an increased production profile. The updated PEA contemplates the construction of a mine and process plant operating over a 35-year mine life at a throughput of 120,000 tonnes per day. The proposed mine is projected to produce copper cathode via a pressure oxidative leach process, in addition to heap leaching the lower grade mineralized material. The advantages of being able to produce copper cathode rather than copper concentrate would be to eliminate the capital intensive concentrate pipeline through Chile, reduce the applicable export tax from 10% on concentrate to 5% on cathode, and remove the treatment and refining charges from the smelting process. The complete technical report was filed on November 7, 2013. It is available on SEDAR under the Company's profile, and is subject to the assumptions and conditions set forth therein.
In October 2014, the Company terminated the option held by TNR Gold Corp ("TNR") to acquire a minority ownership position in Los Azules (the "Back-In Right Option"). The Back-In Right Option gave TNR the option of owning up to 25% in the northern portion of Los Azules. Based on the estimated resources for those northern claims, this would represent approximately 13% of the total deposit. In exchange for the termination of the Back-In Right Option, the Company issued 850,000 shares of the Company's common stock to TNR, and granted a 0.4% net smelter royalty on Los Azules. Further, if Company sells all of its interest in the project within thirty six months of closing the transaction on October 16, 2014, the Company will grant a bonus payment equal to 1% of the gross proceeds of such transaction to TNR.
Other Argentina Exploration Properties
In addition to the San José mine and the Los Azules project, the Company also owns a 100% interest in numerous exploration properties totaling 409 sq. miles (1,060 sq. km), located in the Province of Santa Cruz, and 278 sq. miles (720 sq. km) in the Province of San Juan, where generally limited exploration has been performed. We do not presently consider these properties significant to our exploration program or our operations.
The following map depicts the location of our exploration properties in the Province of Santa Cruz (after the transfer of the properties that were part of the vend-in agreement discussed above):
The following map depicts the location of our exploration properties in the Province of San Juan:
No significant drilling took place during the year 2014. As of the date of this report, the Company has made the decision to rationalize its mineral property interests in an effort to focus its exploration efforts on more prospective areas, and as a result, does not intend to pursue the exploration of the Santa Cruz or San Juan properties.
In October 2013, the Company and Hochschild entered into a vend-in agreement with MSC pursuant to which we agreed to contribute to MSC the mining rights to a certain number of our Santa Cruz exploration properties. The properties transferred, totaling approximately 48,900 hectares, included amongst others the Telken, Piramides, Tobias, and Este tenements, and are in close proximity to or abutting the properties comprising the San José mine. Hochschild also contributed to MSC
certain of its mineral properties located in the same region, totaling approximately 82,700 hectares. The agreement also contains a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to the Company or Hochschild based on any of MSC's production from the respective mineral properties contributed by each party. Registration of title changes with the Argentine government were finalized in the second quarter of 2014.
The following maps illustrate the location of the respective Santa Cruz exploration properties contributed by the Company and Hochschild pursuant to the vend-in agreement, and the combined properties after completion of the vend-in agreement:
Nevada Exploration Properties
The following table summarizes the Nevada land position of our Company as of December 31, 2014:
Of all the Nevada properties held by the Company, only Gold Bar, discussed in more detail above, is considered to be of significance to the Company's development plans at the time of filing this report. No significant drilling or exploration activities took place during the year 2014. As of the date of this report, the Company has made the decision to rationalize its mineral property interests in an effort to focus its exploration efforts on more prospective areas, and as a result, does not intend to pursue the exploration of its Nevada properties, with the exception of the Gold Bar, Tonkin and North Battle Mountain properties.
We generally hold mineral interests in Nevada through unpatented mining and mill site claims, leases of unpatented mining claims, and joint venture and other agreements. Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the BLM, and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include continuing assessment work, obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits, and lease and option payments to claim owners.
The following map illustrates the general location of the trends and our properties in Nevada:
Tonkin Complex
The Tonkin Complex represents our largest holding in the State of Nevada at approximately 94 sq. miles (244 sq. km). The Tonkin Project is a gold mining property located within the Battle Mountain-Eureka Trend in Eureka County, Nevada. From 1985 through 1989, Tonkin produced approximately 30,000 ounces gold utilizing an oxide heap leach and a separate ball mill involving bioxidation to treat the problematic sulphide ore. Due to cost escalation and recovery issues associated with the refractory and preg-robbing carbonaceous mineralogy, the operation was shut down.
ITEM 3.