ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
At September 30, 2010, Panhandle’s principal properties consisted of perpetual ownership of 254,422 net mineral acres, held principally in Arkansas, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Texas and six other states. The Company also held leases on 19,066 net acres primarily in Oklahoma. At September 30, 2010, Panhandle held working interests, royalty interest or both in 4,989 producing oil and natural gas wells and 40 wells in the process of being drilled or completed.
(10)
Consistent with industry practice, the Company does not have current abstracts or title opinions on all of its mineral properties and, therefore, cannot be certain that it has unencumbered title to all of these properties. In recent years, a few insignificant challenges have been made against the Company’s fee title to its properties.
The Company pays ad valorem taxes on minerals owned in nine states.
ACREAGE
Mineral Interests Owned
The following table of mineral interests owned reflects, in each respective state, the number of net and gross acres, net and gross producing acres, net and gross acres leased, and net and gross acres open (unleased) as of September 30, 2010.
(1)
“Producing” represents the mineral acres in which Panhandle owns a royalty or working interest in a producing well.
(2)
“Leased” represents the mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are leased to third parties but not producing.
(3)
“Open” represents mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are not leased or in production.
Leases
The following table reflects net mineral acres leased from others, lease expiration dates, and net leased acres held by production.
(11)
PROVED RESERVES
The following table summarizes estimates of proved reserves of oil and natural gas held by Panhandle. All proved reserves are located within the United States and are principally made up of small interests in 4,989 wells. Other than this report, the Company’s reserve estimates are not filed with any other federal agency.
Reserves for 2008 exclude approximately 2.9 Bcf of CO2 gas reserves. These reserves were sold in the fourth quarter of 2009.
The determination of reserve estimates is a function of testing and evaluating the production and development of oil and natural gas reservoirs in order to establish a production decline curve. The established production decline curves, in conjunction with estimated future oil and natural gas prices, development costs, production taxes and operating expenses, are used to estimate oil and natural gas reserve quantities and associated future net cash flows. As information is processed, over time, regarding the development of individual reservoirs and as market conditions change, estimated reserve quantities and future net cash flows will change as well. Estimated reserve quantities and future net cash flows are affected by changes in product prices, and these prices have varied substantially in recent years and are expected to vary substantially from current pricing in the future.
In January 2010, the FASB updated its oil and natural gas estimation and disclosure requirements to align its requirements with the SEC’s modernized oil and natural gas reporting rules, which are effective for annual reports on Form 10K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The update includes the following changes: (1) permitting use of new technologies to determine proved reserves, if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserve volumes; (2) enabling companies to additionally disclose their probable and possible reserves to investors, in addition to their proved reserves; (3) allowing previously excluded resources, such as oil sands, to be classified as oil and natural gas reserves rather than mining reserves; (4) requiring companies to report the independence and qualifications of a preparer or auditor, based on current Society of Petroleum Engineers criteria; (5) requiring the filing of reports for companies that rely on a third party to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit; and (6) requiring companies to report oil and natural gas reserves using an average price based upon the prior 12-month period, rather than year-end prices. The update must be applied prospectively as a change in accounting principle that is inseparable from a change in accounting estimate and is effective for entities with annual reporting periods ending on or after December 31, 2009. Effective September 30, 2010, the Company adopted the new requirements. See Note 10 for disclosures regarding our natural gas and oil reserves.
(12)
The Company is not able to disclose the effects resulting from the implementation of these changes on the financial statements or on the amount of proved reserves and disclosed quantities. In order to accurately report the quantitative effect of applying oil and gas modernization rules, it would have been necessary for the Company to prepare two sets of reserve reports, one applying the new oil and gas modernization rules and another applying the rules in effect at September 30, 2009. The Company has interests in several thousand developed and undeveloped properties which are evaluated in the reserve estimation process. The Company has a total of eighteen employees including one petroleum engineer and one engineering tech. Staff time was not available for the engineering staff to perform necessary controls to ensure the accuracy of the report, for accounting personnel to recalculate DD&A and re-test for impairment of producing properties and be able to timely prepare and file this Form 10-K with the SEC. Therefore, the Company determined that it was not practicable to perform a second reserve estimation process under the prior rules.
Proved oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations - prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes: (i) the area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (ii) adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or natural gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty. Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil elevation and the potential exists for an associated natural gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty. Reserves, which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection), are included in the proved classification when: (i) successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and (ii) the project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities. Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12 -month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
Developed oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
Undeveloped oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless
(13)
evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time. Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
The independent consulting petroleum engineering firm of DeGolyer and MacNaughton of Dallas, Texas calculated the Company’s oil and natural gas reserves as of September 30, 2010 (see Exhibits 23 and 99). Reserves as of September 30, 2008 and 2009 were calculated by Pinnacle Energy Services, L.L.C. of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
The Company’s net proved (including certain undeveloped reserves described above) oil and natural gas reserves, all of which are located in the United States, as of September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, have been estimated by the Company’s Independent Consulting Petroleum Engineering Firms. All studies have been prepared in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reserve estimates were based on economic and operating conditions existing at September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Since the determination and valuation of proved reserves is a function of testing and estimation, the reserves presented should be expected to change as future information becomes available.
ESTIMATED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
Set forth below are estimated future net cash flows with respect to Panhandle’s net proved reserves (based on the estimated units set forth in the immediately preceding table) for the year indicated, and the present value of such estimated future net cash flows, computed by applying a 10% discount factor as required by the rules and regulations of the SEC. Estimated future net cash flows as of September 30, 2008 and 2009 have been computed by applying prices of oil and natural gas on September 30 of each year to future production of proved reserves less estimated future expenditures to be incurred with respect to the development and production of these reserves. As of September 30, 2010, the Company adopted the new SEC Rule, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements. In accordance with the new SEC rule, the estimated future net cash flows as of September 30, 2010 were computed using the 12-month average price calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas price for each month within the 12-month period prior to September 30, 2010, held flat over the life of the properties and applied to future production of proved reserves less estimated future development and production expenditures for these reserves. The pricing used for each of the three years presented is in accordance with SEC regulations in effect for each year. The amounts presented are net of operating costs and production taxes levied by the respective states. Prices used for determining future cash flows from oil and natural gas as of September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, were as follows: 2010 - $69.23/Bbl, $4.33/Mcf ; 2009 - $66.96/Bbl, $2.86/Mcf; 2008 - $97.74/Bbl, $4.51/Mcf (these natural gas prices are representative of local pipelines in Oklahoma). These future net cash flows based on SEC pricing rules should not be construed as the fair market value of the Company’s reserves. A market value determination would need to include many additional factors, including anticipated oil and natural gas price and production cost increases or decreases, which could affect the economic life of the properties.
(14)
Estimated Future Net Cash Flows
10% Discounted Present Value of Estimated Future Net Cash Flows
The future net cash flows for 9-30-08 are net of immaterial amounts of future cash flow to be received from CO2 reserves. These reserves were sold in the fourth quarter of 2009.
OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth the Company’s net production of oil and natural gas for the fiscal periods indicated.
Natural gas production includes 236,308 and 193,408 Mcf of CO2 sold at average prices of $.85 and $.86 per Mcf for the years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
AVERAGE SALES PRICES AND PRODUCTION COSTS
The following table sets forth unit price and cost data for the fiscal periods indicated.
(1)
Proceeds from the sale of natural gas liquids have been included in natural gas sales, and are therefore included in the price per Mcf of natural gas.
(15)
(1)
Includes actual well operating costs, compression, handling and marketing fees paid on natural gas sales and other minor expenses associated with well operations.
(2)
Includes production taxes only. The low production tax rate per Mcfe in 2009 and 2010 is because of a large proportion of the Company’s natural gas revenue coming from horizontally drilled wells which are eligible for either Oklahoma production tax credits or reduced Arkansas production tax rates.
Approximately 28% of the Company’s oil and natural gas revenue is generated from royalty interests in approximately 3,600 wells. Royalty interests bear no share of the operating costs on those producing wells.
GROSS AND NET PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND DEVELOPED ACRES
The following table sets forth Panhandle’s gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of September 30, 2010. Panhandle owns either working interests, royalty interests or both in these wells. The Company does not operate any wells.
Information on multiple completions is not available from Panhandle’s records, but the number is not believed to be significant.
As of September 30, 2010, Panhandle owned 392,138 gross developed mineral acres and 49,962 net developed mineral acres. Panhandle has also leased from others 138,112 gross developed acres containing 16,014 net developed acres.
UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE
As of September 30, 2010, Panhandle owned 1,287,431 gross and 204,460 net undeveloped mineral acres, and leases on 28,044 gross and 3,052 net acres.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following net productive development and exploratory wells and net dry development and exploratory wells in which the Company had either a working interest, a royalty interest or both were drilled and completed during the fiscal years indicated. The Company did not purchase any wells during these periods.
(16)
PRESENT ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth the gross and net oil and natural gas wells drilling or testing as of September 30, 2010, in which Panhandle owns either a working interest, a royalty interest or both. These wells were not yet producing at September 30, 2010.
OTHER FACILITIES
The Company leases 12,369 square feet of office space in Oklahoma City, OK. The lease obligation ends in 2012.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
This report, including information included in, or incorporated by reference from, future filings by the Company with the SEC, as well as information contained in written material, press releases and oral statements, contains, or may contain, certain statements that are “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this report, which address activities, events or developments which are expected to, or anticipated will, or may, occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “intends,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “estimates,” “predicts” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements.
(17)
These forward-looking statements include, among others, such things as: the amount and nature of our future capital expenditures; wells to be drilled or reworked; prices for oil and natural gas; demand for oil and natural gas; estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves; development and infill drilling potential; drilling prospects; business strategy; production of oil and natural gas reserves; and expansion and growth of our business and operations.
These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors believed appropriate in the circumstances. However, whether actual results and development will conform to our expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
One should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. The Company does not currently intend to update forward-looking information and to release publicly the results of any future revisions made to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances, which reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, after the date of this report.
In order to provide a more thorough understanding of the possible effects of some of these influences on any forward-looking statements made, the following discussion outlines certain factors that in the future could cause consolidated results for 2011 and beyond to differ materially from those that may be presented in any such forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company.
Commodity Prices. The prices received for oil and natural gas production have a direct impact on the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows as well as the ability to meet its projected financial and operational goals. The prices for natural gas and crude oil are dependent on a number of factors beyond the Company’s control, including: the demand for oil and natural gas, weather conditions in the continental United States (which can greatly influence the demand for natural gas at any given time as well as the price we receive for such natural gas) and the ability of current distribution systems in the United States to effectively meet the demand for oil and natural gas at any given time, particularly in times of peak demand which may result because of adverse weather conditions.
Oil prices are sensitive to foreign influences based on political, social or economic factors, any one of which could have an immediate and significant effect on the price and supply of oil. In addition, prices of both natural gas and oil are becoming more and more influenced by trading on the commodities markets, which has, at times, increased the volatility associated with these prices.
Uncertainty of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the Company’s control. The oil and natural gas reserve data included in this report represents only an estimate of these reserves. Oil and natural gas reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs, and workover and remedial costs.
Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas and estimates of the future net cash flows from oil and natural gas reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, oil and natural gas reserve estimates may be subject to periodic downward or upward adjustments. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to oil and natural gas reserves will vary from estimates, and those variances can be material.
(18)
The Company does not operate any of the properties in which it has an interest and has very limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and the limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially and adversely affect the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and targeted production growth rates.
The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report is not necessarily the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Company’s properties. As required by the SEC, the 2010 estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and natural gas reserves are determined based on the fiscal year’s 12-month average of the first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas prices (oil and natural gas prices used for 2008 and 2009 were based on the September 30 spot price of each respective year) and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows are also affected, in part, by the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas and increases or decreases in consumption.
In addition, the 10% discount factor used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with operations of the oil and natural gas industry in general.
ITEM 3