ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
At September 30, 2012, Panhandle’s principal properties consisted of (i) perpetual ownership of 255,012 net mineral acres, held principally in Arkansas, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Texas and six other states; (ii) leases on 20,177 net acres primarily in Oklahoma: and (iii) working interests, royalty interests or both in 5,666 producing oil and natural gas wells and 62 wells in the process of being drilled or completed.
(11)
Consistent with industry practice, the Company does not have current abstracts or title opinions on all of its mineral properties and, therefore, cannot be certain that it has unencumbered title to all of these properties. In recent years, a few insignificant challenges have been made against the Company’s fee title to its properties.
The Company pays ad valorem taxes on minerals owned in ten states.
ACREAGE
Mineral Interests Owned
The following table of mineral interests owned reflects, in each respective state, the number of net and gross acres, net and gross producing acres, net and gross acres leased, and net and gross acres open (unleased) as of September 30, 2012.
(1) “Producing” represents the mineral acres in which Panhandle owns a royalty or working interest in a producing well.
(2) “Leased” represents the mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are leased to third parties but not producing.
(3) “Open” represents mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are not leased or in production.
Leases
The following table reflects net mineral acres leased from others, lease expiration dates, and net leased acres held by production as of September 30, 2012.
(12)
PROVED RESERVES
The following table summarizes estimates of proved reserves of oil, NGL and natural gas held by Panhandle as of September 30, 2012. All proved reserves are located onshore within the United States and are principally made up of small interests in 5,666 wells, predominately all of which are located in the Mid-Continent region. Other than this report, the Company’s reserve estimates are not filed with any other federal agency.
(1) 2011 was the first year the Company had sufficient volumes of NGL to warrant reserve volumes disclosure. These NGL are associated with the rapid increase in drilling activity in western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, which includes many plays (horizontal Granite Wash, Hogshooter Wash, Cleveland, Marmaton, Tonkawa and the Anadarko Basin Woodford Shale) producing significant volumes of NGL.
The 13.0 Bcfe increase in total proved reserves from 2011 to 2012 is a combination of the following factors:
(1) Positive performance revisions of 3.6 Bcfe, of which 1.6 Bcfe were proved developed revisions principally attributable to properties in western Oklahoma. The remaining 2.0 Bcfe were proved undeveloped revisions principally attributable to higher proved reserves per well in the Company’s shale resource plays including the Fayetteville Shale, Southeastern Oklahoma Woodford Shale and the Anadarko Basin Woodford Shale.
(2) Negative pricing revisions (principally natural gas pricing) of 31.4 Bcfe, include 7.1 Bcfe of negative revisions due to proved developed wells reaching their economic limits earlier than previously projected resulting from current product prices. Negative revisions of 24.3 Bcfe were due to certain proved undeveloped locations, primarily in the Fayetteville Shale, Southeastern Oklahoma Woodford Shale and the Anadarko Basin Woodford Shale, becoming uneconomic at current product prices.
(3) Proved developed reserve additions of 7.8 Bcfe resulting from:
(13)
a) The Company’s ongoing development of conventional oil, NGL and natural gas plays utilizing horizontal drilling, including the Granite Wash and Cleveland plays in western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, as well as the Marmaton and Tonkawa plays in western Oklahoma.
b) The Company’s ongoing development of unconventional natural gas plays utilizing horizontal drilling, including the Arkansas Fayetteville Shale and, to a much lesser extent, the Southeastern Oklahoma Woodford Shale.
c) The Company’s ongoing development of unconventional oil, NGL and natural gas plays utilizing horizontal drilling in the Anadarko Basin Woodford Shale and Ardmore Basin Woodford Shale in western and southern Oklahoma.
(4) PUD additions of 24.5 Bcfe principally in the Fayetteville Shale play in Arkansas and the Anadarko Basin Woodford Shale play in western Oklahoma.
(5) Property purchases of 19.1 Bcfe primarily in the Fayetteville Shale play in Arkansas.
(6) Production of 10.6 Bcfe.
The following details the changes in proved undeveloped reserves for 2012 (Mcfe):
The beginning PUD reserves were 44.6 Bcfe. A total of 5.4 Bcfe (12% of the beginning balance) were transferred to proved developed producing during 2012. An additional 24.3 Bcfe (55% of the beginning balance) were removed during 2012 as the result of becoming uneconomic at 2012 prices. A total of 29.7 Bcfe (67% of the beginning balance) of PUD reserves were moved out of the category during 2012 as either the result of being transferred to proved developed or removed as uneconomic. Only one PUD location from 2008, representing 1% of total 2012 PUD reserves remains in the PUD category while 45 PUD locations from 2009, representing 11% of total 2012 PUD reserves remain in the PUD category. The 46 PUD locations from 2008 and 2009 represent 8% of the Company’s current total of 589 PUD locations. We anticipate that all the Company’s PUD locations will be drilled and converted to PDP within five years of the date they were added. However, in the event that there are undrilled PUD locations at the end of the five-year period, it is our intent to remove the reserves associated with those locations from our proved reserves as revisions.
The determination of reserve estimates is a function of testing and evaluating the production and development of oil and natural gas reservoirs in order to establish a production decline curve. The established production decline curves, in conjunction with oil and natural gas prices, development costs, production taxes and operating expenses, are used to estimate oil and natural gas reserve quantities and associated future net cash flows. As information is processed, over time, regarding the development of individual reservoirs and as market conditions change, estimated reserve quantities and future net cash flows will change as well. Estimated reserve quantities and future net cash flows are affected by changes in product prices. These prices have varied substantially in recent years and are expected to vary substantially from current pricing in the future.
(14)
In January 2010, the FASB updated its oil and natural gas estimation and disclosure requirements to align its requirements with the SEC’s modernized oil and natural gas reporting rules, which were effective for annual reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The update included the following changes: (1) permitting use of new technologies to determine proved reserves, if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserve volumes; (2) enabling companies to additionally disclose their probable and possible reserves to investors, in addition to their proved reserves; (3) allowing previously excluded resources, such as oil sands, to be classified as oil and natural gas reserves rather than mining reserves; (4) requiring companies to report the independence and qualifications of a preparer or auditor, based on current Society of Petroleum Engineers criteria; (5) requiring the filing of reports for companies that rely on a third party to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit; and (6) requiring companies to report oil and natural gas reserves using an average price based upon the prior 12-month period, rather than year-end prices. The update was applied prospectively as a change in accounting principle that is inseparable from a change in accounting estimate and was effective for entities with annual reporting periods ending on or after December 31, 2009. Effective September 30, 2010, the Company adopted the new requirements. See Note 11 to the financial statements in Item 8 - “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for disclosures regarding our oil and natural gas reserves.
Proved oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations - prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced, or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes: (i) the area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (ii) adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or natural gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty. Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil elevation and the potential exists for an associated natural gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty. Reserves, which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection), are included in the proved classification when: (i) successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and (ii) the project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities. Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
Developed oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate, if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
(15)
Undeveloped oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time. Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
The independent consulting petroleum engineering firm of DeGolyer and MacNaughton of Dallas, Texas, calculated the Company’s oil, NGL and natural gas reserves as of September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (see Exhibits 23 and 99).
The Company’s net proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves (including certain undeveloped reserves described above) are located onshore in the United States. All studies have been prepared in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reserve estimates were based on economic and operating conditions existing at September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Since the determination and valuation of proved reserves is a function of testing and estimation, the reserves presented should be expected to change as future information becomes available.
ESTIMATED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
Set forth below are estimated future net cash flows with respect to Panhandle’s net proved reserves (based on the estimated units set forth above in Proved Reserves) for the year indicated, and the present value of such estimated future net cash flows, computed by applying a 10% discount factor as required by SEC rules and regulations. As of September 30, 2010, the Company adopted the SEC Rule, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements. In accordance with the SEC rule, the estimated future net cash flows were computed using the 12-month average price calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month individual product prices for each month within the 12-month period prior to September 30 held flat over the life of the properties and applied to future production of proved reserves less estimated future development and production expenditures for these reserves. The amounts presented are net of operating costs and production taxes levied by the respective states. The Company reported NGL reserves for the first time in the 2011 year-end report. Increased drilling activity over the last two years in several western Oklahoma plays which produce significant NGL has resulted in meaningful NGL production and reserves for the Company, necessitating inclusion in the reserve calculation. Prices used for determining future cash flows from oil, NGL and natural gas as of September 30, 2012 and 2011, were as follows: $89.41/Bbl, $35.70/Bbl, $2.51/Mcf ; $90.28/Bbl, $38.91/Bbl, $3.81/Mcf, respectively. Prices used for determining future cash flows from oil and natural gas as of September 30, 2010, were as follows: $69.23/Bbl, $4.33/Mcf. These future net cash flows based on SEC pricing rules should not be construed as the fair market value of the Company’s reserves. A market value determination would need to include many additional factors, including anticipated oil, NGL and natural gas price and production cost increases or decreases, which could affect the economic life of the properties.
(16)
OIL, NGL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth the Company’s net production of oil, NGL and natural gas for the fiscal periods indicated.
(1) Natural gas production includes NGL volumes.
AVERAGE SALES PRICES AND PRODUCTION COSTS
The following tables set forth unit price and cost data for the fiscal periods indicated.
(1) Proceeds from the sale of NGL have been included in natural gas sales and are therefore included in the price per Mcf of natural gas.
* The Company reported NGL reserves for the first time in its 2011 year-end reserve report. Increased drilling activity over the last two years in several western Oklahoma plays which produce significant NGL has resulted in meaningful NGL reserves and production for the Company. These reserve and production increases necessitated inclusion of NGL in the 2011 year-end reserve calculation and 2012 production volumes. In quarters prior to 2012, all NGL sales revenues were included with natural gas sales revenues.
(17)
(1) Includes actual well operating costs, compression, handling and marketing fees paid on natural gas sales and other minor expenses associated with well operations.
(2) Includes production taxes only.
Approximately 30% of the Company’s oil, NGL and natural gas revenue is generated from royalty payments on its mineral acreage. Royalty interests bear no share of the operating costs on those producing wells.
GROSS AND NET PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND DEVELOPED ACRES
The following table sets forth Panhandle’s gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of September 30, 2012. Panhandle owns either working interests, royalty interests or both in these wells. The Company does not operate any wells.
Panhandle’s average interest in royalty interest only wells is 0.86%. Panhandle’s average interest in working interest wells is 5.14% working interest and 4.97% net revenue interest.
Information on multiple completions is not available from Panhandle’s records, but the number is not believed to be significant.
As of September 30, 2012, Panhandle owned 427,620 gross developed mineral acres and 56,047 net developed mineral acres. Panhandle has also leased from others 135,526 gross developed acres containing 17,904 net developed acres.
UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE
As of September 30, 2012, Panhandle owned 1,259,293 gross and 198,965 net undeveloped mineral acres, and leases on 19,852 gross and 2,273 net undeveloped acres.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following net productive development, exploratory and purchased wells and net dry development, exploratory and purchased wells in which the Company had either a working interest, a royalty interest or both were drilled and completed during the fiscal years indicated.
(18)
PRESENT ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth the gross and net oil and natural gas wells drilling or testing as of September 30, 2012, in which Panhandle owns either a working interest, a royalty interest or both. These wells were not producing at September 30, 2012.
OTHER FACILITIES
The Company has a lease on 12,369 square feet for its office in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which ends April 30, 2015.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
This report, including information included in, or incorporated by reference from, future filings by the Company with the SEC, as well as information contained in written material, press releases and oral statements, contains, or may contain, certain statements that are “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this report, which address activities, events or developments which are expected to, or anticipated will, or may, occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “intends,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “estimates,” “predicts” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements include, among others, such things as: the amount and nature
(19)
of our future capital expenditures; wells to be drilled or reworked; prices for oil, NGL and natural gas; demand for oil, NGL and natural gas; estimates of proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves; development and infill drilling potential; drilling prospects; business strategy; production of oil, NGL and natural gas reserves; and expansion and growth of our business and operations.
These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors believed appropriate in the circumstances. However, whether actual results and development will conform to our expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
One should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. The Company does not currently intend to update forward-looking information and to release publicly the results of any future revisions made to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances, which reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, after the date of this report.
In order to provide a more thorough understanding of the possible effects of some of these influences on any forward-looking statements made, the following discussion outlines certain factors that in the future could cause results for 2013 and beyond to differ materially from those that may be presented in any such forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company.
Commodity Prices. The prices received for oil, NGL and natural gas production have a direct impact on the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows as well as the ability to meet its projected financial and operational goals. The prices for crude oil, NGL and natural gas are dependent on a number of factors beyond the Company’s control, including: the demand for oil, NGL and natural gas; weather conditions in the continental United States (which can greatly influence the demand for natural gas at any given time as well as the price we receive for such natural gas); and the ability of current distribution systems in the United States to effectively meet the demand for oil, NGL and natural gas at any given time, particularly in times of peak demand which may result because of adverse weather conditions.
Oil prices are sensitive to foreign influences based on political, social or economic factors, any one of which could have an immediate and significant effect on the price and supply of oil. In addition, prices of both natural gas and oil are becoming more and more influenced by trading on the commodities markets, which has, at times, increased the volatility associated with these prices.
Uncertainty of Oil, NGL and Natural Gas Reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the Company’s control. The oil, NGL and natural gas reserve data included in this report represents only an estimate of these reserves. Oil and natural gas reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, NGL and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGL and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning future oil, NGL and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs, and workover and remedial costs.
Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil, NGL and natural gas and estimates of the future net cash flows from oil, NGL and natural gas reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, oil, NGL and natural gas reserve estimates may be subject to periodic downward or upward adjustments. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to oil, NGL and natural gas reserves will vary from estimates, and those variances can be material.
(20)
The Company does not operate any of the properties in which it has an interest and has very limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and the limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially and adversely affect the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and targeted production growth rates.
The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report is not necessarily the current market value of the estimated oil, NGL and natural gas reserves attributable to the Company’s properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves are determined based on the fiscal year’s 12-month average of the first-day-of-the-month individual product prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows are also affected, in part, by the amount and timing of oil, NGL and natural gas production, supply and demand for oil, NGL and natural gas and increases or decreases in consumption.
In addition, the 10% discount factor required by the SEC used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with operations of the oil and natural gas industry in general.
ITEM 3