ITEM 2.
Properties
General Background
Panhandle is focused on perpetual oil and natural gas mineral ownership in resource plays in the United States. As part of our evolution as a company, we also own interests in leasehold acreage and non-operated working interests in oil and natural gas properties.
At September 30, 2019, Panhandle’s principal properties consisted of (i) perpetual ownership of 258,231 net mineral acres, held principally in Oklahoma, North Dakota, Texas, Arkansas and New Mexico; (ii) leases on 17,199 net acres primarily in Oklahoma; and (iii) working interests, royalty interests or both in 6,496 producing oil and natural gas wells and 120 wells in the process of being drilled or completed.
Management’s Business Strategy Related to Properties
During fiscal 2019, the Company made the strategic decision to focus on perpetual oil and natural gas mineral ownership and growth through mineral acquisitions and the development of its significant mineral acreage inventory in its core areas of focus. In accordance with this strategy, we will no longer participate in new development on our mineral or leasehold acreage with a cost-bearing working interest. The Company believes that its strategy to focus on mineral ownership is the best path to giving the Company’s stockholders the greatest risk-weighted returns on their investments going forward.
Our goal is to increase stockholder value through the management of our fee mineral and leasehold assets as a portfolio. We plan to grow our mineral fee holdings by acquiring mineral acreage, in the cores of resource plays with substantial undeveloped opportunities, that meets or exceeds our corporate return threshold. We also plan to aggressively lease our mineral holdings.
We have an active program in place focused on leasing open acreage to generate additional lease bonus revenue and future royalty revenue.
Title to Properties
Consistent with industry practice, the Company does not have current abstracts or title opinions on all of its mineral acreage and, therefore, cannot be certain that it has unencumbered title to all of its properties. In recent years, a few insignificant challenges have been made against the Company’s fee title to its acreage.
Acreage
Mineral Interests Owned
The following table of mineral interests owned reflects, in each respective state, the number of (i) net and gross acres owned by the Company, (ii) net and gross producing acres owned by the Company, (iii) net and gross acres leased to others by the Company and (iv) net and gross acres open (unleased) as of September 30, 2019.
(1)
“Producing” represents the mineral acres in which Panhandle owns a royalty or working interest in a producing well.
(2)
“Leased” represents the mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are leased to third parties but not producing.
(3)
“Open” represents mineral acres owned by Panhandle that are not leased or in production.
Leases
The following table reflects the Company’s net mineral acres leased from others, lease expiration dates, and net leased acres held by production as of September 30, 2019.
Proved Reserves
Summary of Proved Reserves
The following table summarizes estimates of proved reserves of oil, NGL and natural gas held by Panhandle as of September 30, 2019, compared to the two preceding year ends, using prices and costs under existing economic conditions. Proved reserves are located onshore within the contiguous United States and are principally made up of small interests in 6,496 wells, which are predominately located in the Mid-Continent region. Other than this report, the Company’s reserve estimates are not filed with any other federal agency.
Summary of Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Exploration and development of our oil and natural gas properties is conducted by oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, primarily larger independent operating companies. We do not operate any of our oil and natural gas properties.
For the year ended September 30, 2019, our net total proved reserves decreased by approximately 67.2 Bcfe, as compared to September 30, 2018. The decrease in total proved reserves from 2018 to 2019 is attributable to a combination of the following factors:
•
Negative pricing revisions of 4.4 Bcfe (comprised of proved developed revisions of 4.3 Bcfe and PUD revisions of 0.1 Bcfe), which primarily resulted from oil and natural gas wells reaching their economic limits earlier than was projected in 2018 due to lower oil prices and higher natural gas price deducts in 2019 relative to 2018.
•
Negative revisions of 56.2 Bcfe, which included (i) proved undeveloped negative revisions of 48.2 Bcfe, primarily resulting from the Company’s implementation of its new strategy of focusing on perpetual mineral ownership and not participating with a working interest in future drilling programs, which resulted in the removal of undeveloped leasehold wells (including wells in the Eagle Ford Shale) and lowering the net revenue interest on previously planned working interest wells on our mineral acreage to a royalty revenue interest only and (ii) proved developed revisions of negative 8.0 Bcfe, principally due to lower performance of our high-interest Woodford natural gas wells drilled in 2017 in the Arkoma Stack and, to a lesser extent, lower performance of the Fayetteville Shale natural gas properties in Arkansas.
•
Proved developed reserve extensions, discoveries and other additions of 2.1 Bcfe principally resulting from: (i) the Company’s royalty interest ownership in the ongoing development of unconventional oil, NGL and natural gas utilizing extended horizontal drilling in the Woodford Shale in the STACK, SCOOP and Arkoma Stack in Oklahoma; (ii) the Company’s royalty interest ownership in the ongoing development of unconventional oil, NGL and natural gas utilizing horizontal drilling in the STACK Meramec play in the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma; and (iii) the Company’s royalty interest ownership in ongoing development of conventional and unconventional oil, NGL and natural gas utilizing horizontal drilling in the Permian Basin.
•
The addition of 4.7 Bcfe of PUD reserves within the Company’s active drilling program areas of (i) the STACK Meramec in western Oklahoma, (ii) the SCOOP Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma, (iii) the Woodford Shale in the Arkoma Stack in southeastern Oklahoma, (iv) the Marmaton in Ellis County, Oklahoma, and (v) the Yeso in Eddy County, New Mexico.
•
The acquisition of 0.8 Bcfe, predominately in the active drilling program of the Bakken in North Dakota, of which 0.5 Bcfe were proved developed and 0.3 Bcfe were proved undeveloped.
•
The sale of 3.8 Bcfe, predominately in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico, of which 2.2 Bcfe were proved developed and 1.6 Bcfe were proved undeveloped.
•
Production of 10.4 Bcfe from the Company’s oil and natural gas properties.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
The following details the changes in proved undeveloped reserves for 2019 (Mcfe):
For the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, our beginning PUD reserves were 63.9 Bcfe. In 2019, a total of 1.8 Bcfe (3% of the beginning balance) was transferred to proved developed. The 48.4 Bcfe (76% of the beginning balance) of negative revisions to PUD reserves were pricing revisions of 0.2 Bcfe and a revision of 48.2 Bcfe, predominately resulting from the removal of oil, NGL and natural gas reserves associated with our working interest in Eagle Ford wells and working interests in wells in the STACK, SCOOP and Arkoma Stack plays, consistent with the Company implementing the strategy to no longer participate with working interests moving forward.
We anticipate that all the Company’s current PUD locations will be drilled and converted to PDP within five years of the date they were added. However, PUD locations and associated reserves, which are no longer projected to be drilled within five years from the date they were added to PUD reserves, will be removed as revisions at the time that determination is made. In the event that there are undrilled PUD locations at the end of the five-year period, it is our intent to remove the reserves associated with those locations from our proved reserves as revisions. The Company added 4.7 Bcfe of PUD reserves in 2019 within the active drilling program areas of (i) the SCOOP Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma, (ii) the Anadarko Basin STACK Meramec in western Oklahoma, (iii) the Marmaton in Ellis County, Oklahoma, (iv) the Arkoma Stack in eastern Oklahoma and (v) the Yeso in Eddy County, New Mexico. These additions result from continuing development and additional well performance data in each of the referenced plays. Additionally, the Company purchased 0.3 Bcfe in the Bakken play in North Dakota and sold 1.6 Bcfe, predominately in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico.
Estimated Future Net Cash Flows
Set forth below are estimated future net cash flows with respect to Panhandle’s net proved reserves (based on the estimated units set forth above in Proved Reserves) for each of the years indicated, and the present value of such estimated future net cash flows, computed by applying a 10% discount factor as required by SEC rules and regulations. The Company follows
the SEC rule, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements. In accordance with the SEC rule, the estimated future net cash flows were computed using the 12-month average price calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month individual product prices for each month within the 12-month period prior to September 30 held flat over the life of the properties and applied to future production of proved reserves less estimated future development and production expenditures for these reserves. The amounts presented are net of operating costs and production taxes levied by the respective states. Prices used for determining future cash flows from oil, NGL and natural gas as of September 30, 2019, 2018 and 2017, were as follows: in 2019, $54.40/Bbl for oil, $19.30/Bbl for NGL and $2.48/Mcf for natural gas; in 2018, $62.86/Bbl for oil, $26.13/Bbl for NGL and $2.56/Mcf for natural gas; and in 2017, $46.31/Bbl for oil, $17.55/Bbl for NGL and $2.81/Mcf for natural gas. These future net cash flows based on SEC pricing rules should not be construed as the fair market value of the Company’s reserves. A market value determination would need to include many additional factors, including anticipated oil, NGL and natural gas price and production cost increases or decreases, which could affect the economic life of the properties.
Evaluation and Review of Reserves
The determination of reserve estimates is a function of testing and evaluating the production and development of oil and natural gas reservoirs in order to establish a production decline curve. The established production decline curves, in conjunction with oil and natural gas prices, development costs, production taxes and operating expenses, are used to estimate oil and natural gas reserve quantities and associated future net cash flows. As information is processed regarding the development of individual reservoirs, and as market conditions change, estimated reserve quantities and future net cash flows will change over time as well. Estimated reserve quantities and future net cash flows are affected by changes in product prices. These prices have varied substantially in recent years and are expected to vary substantially from current pricing in the future.
The Company follows the SEC’s modernized oil and natural gas reporting rules, which were effective for annual reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. See Note 13 to the financial statements in Item 8 - “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for disclosures regarding our oil and natural gas reserves.
Under the SEC rules, oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations - prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced, or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project, within a reasonable time. The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes: (i) the area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (ii) adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or natural gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty. Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil elevation and the potential exists for an associated natural gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty. Reserves, which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection), are included in the proved classification when: (i) successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and (ii) the project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities. Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
Developed oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor, compared to the cost of a new well, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate, if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
Undeveloped oil and natural gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to
those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time. Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
The independent consulting petroleum engineering firm of DeGolyer and MacNaughton of Dallas, Texas, prepared the Company’s oil, NGL and natural gas reserves estimates as of September 30, 2019, 2018 and 2017 (see Exhibits 23.2 and 99). Within DeGolyer and MacNaughton, the technical person primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the Report of DeGolyer and MacNaughton dated October 7, 2019, filed as Exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, was Gregory K. Graves. Mr. Graves has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin and is a Registered Professional Engineer in the state of Texas. He is a member or the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and has over 35 years of experience in oil and gas reservoir studies and reserves evaluations. Mr. Graves meets or exceeds the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserve definitions and guidelines.
All of the reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Vice President of Operations, Freda Webb. Ms. Webb holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Oklahoma, a Master of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Southern California and a Professional Engineering License in Petroleum Engineering in the State of Oklahoma. Ms. Webb has more than 36 years of experience in the oil and gas industry. She is an active member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE).
Our Vice President of Operations and internal staff work closely with our Independent Consulting Petroleum Engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to them for their reserves estimation process. We provide historical information (such as ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating costs, handling fees, and development costs) for all properties to our Independent Consulting Petroleum Engineers. Throughout the year, our team meets regularly with representatives of our Independent Consulting Petroleum Engineers to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions. The Company’s net proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves (including certain undeveloped reserves described above) are located onshore in the contiguous United States. All studies have been prepared in accordance with regulations prescribed by the SEC. The reserve estimates were based on economic and operating conditions existing at September 30, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Since the determination and valuation of proved reserves is a function of testing
and estimation, the reserves presented are expected to change as future information becomes available.
Oil, NGL and Natural Gas Production
The following table sets forth the Company’s net production of oil, NGL and natural gas for the fiscal periods indicated.
Average Sales Prices and Production Costs
The following tables set forth unit price and cost data for the fiscal periods indicated.
(1)
Includes actual well operating costs, compression, handling and marketing fees paid on natural gas sales and other minor expenses associated with well operations.
(2)
Includes production taxes only.
In fiscal 2019, approximately 36% of the Company’s oil, NGL and natural gas revenue was generated from royalty payments received on its mineral acreage. Royalty interests bear no share of the field operating costs on those producing wells, but they do bear a share of the handling fees (primarily gathering and transportation).
Gross and Net Productive Wells and Developed Acres
The following table sets forth Panhandle’s gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells as of September 30, 2019. Panhandle owns either working interests, royalty interests or both in these wells. The Company does not operate any wells.
Panhandle’s average interest in royalty interest only wells is 0.71%. Panhandle’s average interest in working interest wells is 4.39% working interest and 4.27% net revenue interest.
Information on multiple completions is not available from Panhandle’s records, but the number is not believed to be significant. With regard to Gross Royalty Only Wells, some of these wells are in multi-well unitized fields. In such cases, the Company’s ownership in each unitized field is counted as one gross well, as the Company does not have access to the actual well count in all of these unitized fields.
As of September 30, 2019, Panhandle owned 455,324 gross (60,763 net) developed mineral acres. Panhandle has also leased from others 186,077 gross (17,199 net) developed acres.
Undeveloped Acreage
As of September 30, 2019, Panhandle owned 1,253,233 gross and 197,468 net undeveloped mineral acres. All of our leases are held by production (or HBP), and we do not have any leases on undeveloped acres.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth Panhandle’s net productive development, exploratory and purchased wells and net dry development, exploratory and purchased wells in which the Company had either a working interest, a royalty interest or both were drilled and completed during the fiscal years indicated.
Present Activities
The following table sets forth the Company’s gross and net oil and natural gas wells being drilled or waiting on completion as of September 30, 2019, in which Panhandle owns either a working interest, a royalty interest or both. These wells were not producing at September 30, 2019.
Other Facilities
The Company has an office lease on 12,369 square feet of office space in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2020.
ITEM 3.