ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Property Overview
Our natural gas and oil operations are concentrated in the Appalachian and Southwestern regions of the United States. Our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped natural gas and oil leases in these regions. These interests entitle us to drill for and produce natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, royalty and overriding royalty interests. We have a single company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments; therefore, segment reporting is not applicable to us. We track only basic operational data by area. We do not maintain complete separate financial statement information by area. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis.
The table below summarizes data for our operating regions for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Approximately 81% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 are located in the Marcellus Shale and Nora Area in our Appalachia region and the Barnett Shale in our Southwestern region. Each of these plays has a large portfolio of drilling opportunities. Our reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves.
The following table below sets forth annual production volumes, sales price and cost data for our largest fields (those whose reserves are greater than 15% of our total proved reserves).
(a)
Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equal six mcf based upon the approximate relative energy content of oil to natural gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and natural gas prices.
(b)
We do not record the result of hedging at the field level.
(a)
Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equal six mcf based upon the approximate relative energy content of oil to gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and gas prices.
(b)
We do not record the result of hedging at the field level.
(a)
Oil and NGLs are converted at the rate of one barrel equal six mcf based upon the approximate relative energy content of oil to gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and gas prices.
(b)
We do not record the result of hedging at the field level.
Appalachian Region
Our properties in this area are located in the Appalachian Basin in the northeastern United States, principally in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Virginia. The reserves principally produce from the Pennsylvanian (coalbed formation), Upper Devonian, Medina, Huron Shale, Big Lime and Marcellus Shale formations at depths ranging from 2,500 to 9,000 feet. We own 4,969 net producing wells, 78% of which we operate, and approximately 2,750 miles of gas gathering lines. Our average working interest is 71%. We have approximately 1.8 million gross (1.5 million net) acres under lease, which include 340,000 acres where we also own a royalty interest.
Reserves at December 31, 2010 were 2.8 Tcfe, an increase of 1.0 Tcfe, or 56%, from 2009 with drilling additions partially offset by asset sales (189.6 Bcfe) and production. Annual production increased 43% over 2009. During 2010, this region spent $735.5 million to drill 285.0 (196.7 net) development wells, of which 284.0 (195.7 net) were productive, and 7.0 (5.4 net) exploratory wells, of which 5.0 (3.4 net) were productive. At December 31, 2010, the Appalachian region had an inventory of 2,060 proven drilling locations and 655 proven recompletions. During the year, the Appalachian region drilled 168 proven locations, added 522 new proven locations and deleted 1,400 proven locations due to asset sales.
Marcellus Shale
We began operations in the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania during 2004. The Marcellus Shale is a non-conventional reservoir which produces natural gas and NGLs. This has been our largest investment area over the last three years. We had 422 proven drilling locations at December 31, 2010. Our 2010 production was 166% greater than 2009. During 2010, we drilled 113.6 net development wells and 3.9 net exploratory wells in the Marcellus Shale, of which 114.4 net wells were successful. In 2011, we plan to drill 196 wells. During 2010, we had approximately 12 drilling rigs in the field and expect to run 12 to 16 rigs throughout 2011.
We have long-term agreements with third parties to provide gathering and processing services and infrastructure assets in the Marcellus Shale. In fourth quarter 2009, MarkWest Liberty Midstream, L.L.C. completed a phase two expansion, pursuant to these agreements. This expansion included an additional 120,000 mcf per day of cryogenic natural gas processing, 20 additional miles of gathering and residue gas pipelines and 21,000 horsepower of additional compression. MarkWest expects additional cryogenic processing capacity to be completed in the first half of 2011.
Nora Area
In 2004, we acquired natural gas properties in the Nora Area. In 2007, through an acquisition, we equalized our working interests in a portion of the field with EQT Corporation and entered into a joint development plan. We have over 1,600 proven drilling locations in the Nora Area. Production in the Nora Area increased from 52,400 Mcfe per day in 2009 to 58,300 Mcfe per day net in 2010. During
2010, we drilled 83.1 net development wells and 1.5 net exploratory wells and achieved a 100% drilling success rate. During 2010, we spent $134.5 million to purchase proved and unproved natural gas properties in this area. In 2011, we plan to drill 83 wells.
Southwestern Region
The Southwestern region includes drilling, production and field operations in the Barnett Shale of North Central Texas, the Permian Basin of West Texas and eastern New Mexico, and the East Texas Basin, as well as in the Texas Panhandle, Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and Louisiana and Mississippi. In the Southwestern region, we own 1,954 net producing wells, 96% of which we operate. Our average working interest is 80%. We have approximately 886,000 gross (569,000 net) acres under lease.
Total proved reserves in the Southwestern region increased 290.9 Bcfe, or 22%, at December 31, 2010, when compared to year-end 2009. Drilling additions (268.2 Bcfe) and a favorable reserve revision for higher prices and performance were partially offset by production. Annual production volumes decreased 7% from 2009. During 2010, this region spent $160.5 million to drill 71 (59.8 net) development wells, of which 69.0 (57.8 net) were productive, and 4.0 (4.0 net) exploratory wells, of which 3.0 (3.0 net) were productive. During the year, the region achieved a 96% drilling success rate.
At December 31, 2010, the Southwestern region had a development inventory of 338 proven drilling locations and 426 proven recompletions. During the year, the Southwestern region drilled 27 proven locations and added 110 new proven locations. Development projects include recompletions, infill drilling and to a lesser extent, installation of secondary recovery projects. These activities also include increasing reserves and production through cost control, upgrading lifting equipment, improving gathering systems and surface facilities, and performing restimulations and refracturing operations.
Barnett Shale
Our operations in the Barnett Shale of North Texas began with the 2006 acquisition of Stroud Energy. We added additional properties from various acquisitions during 2007 and 2008. We now own approximately 52,000 net proved and unproved acres. At December 31, 2010, we have 210 proven drilling locations in this area, and 30 proven recompletions. Our production in the Barnett Shale decreased from 120,255 mcfe per day in 2009 to 113,512 mcfe per day in 2010. The Barnett Shale is a non-conventional reservoir and it produces natural gas and NGLs. During 2010, we drilled 24.7 net development wells, of which 22.7 wells were successful.
In October 2010, we announced our plans to offer for sale our Barnett properties. The properties include approximately 350 producing wells and 700 proven and unproven drilling locations. Parties began conducting evaluations in December 2010 and on February 28, 2011, we announced we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell these assets along with certain derivative contracts for a price of $900.0 million, subject to typical post-closing adjustments. However, the completion of the sale is dependent upon prospective buyer due diligence procedures and there can be no assurance the sale will be completed.
Proved Reserves
In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions to modernize its oil and natural gas company reserve reporting requirements. We adopted the new rules as of December 31, 2009. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the new SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K:
a)
Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf based upon the relative energy content of oil to natural gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and natural gas prices.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves for 2008, 2007 and 2006 based on end of year prices:
(a)
Oil and NGLs are converted to mcfe at the rate of one barrel equals six mcf based upon the relative energy content of oil to natural gas, which is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of oil and natural gas prices.
The following table sets forth summary information by area with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010:
(a)
PV-10 was prepared using the twelve-month average prices for 2010, discounted at 10% per annum. Year-end PV-10 may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC. We believe that the presentation of PV-10 is relevant and useful to our investors as supplemental disclosure to the standardized measure, or after tax amount, because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes and our current tax structure. While the standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each company, PV-10 is based on prices and discount factors that are consistent for all companies. Because of this, PV-10 can be used within the industry and by creditors and securities analysts to evaluate estimated net cash flows from proved reserves on a more comparable basis. The difference between the standardized measure and the
PV-10 amount is the discounted estimated future income tax of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Included in the $4.6 billion PV-10 is $3.2 billion (pre-tax) related to proved developed reserves.
Reserve Estimation
The following independent petroleum consultants conducted a review of our year-end 2010 reserves: DeGolyer and MacNaughton (Southwestern), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (Southwestern) and Wright and Company, Inc. (Appalachian). These engineers were selected for their geographic expertise and their historical experience in engineering certain properties. At December 31, 2010, these consultants collectively reviewed approximately 90% of our proved reserves. A copy of the summary reserve report of each of these independent petroleum consultants is included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The technical person at each independent petroleum consulting firm responsible for reviewing the reserve estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with our independent petroleum consultants to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to independent petroleum consultants for their review process. Throughout the year, our technical team meets periodically with representatives of each of our independent petroleum consultants to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves. We provide historical information to our consultants for our largest producing properties such as ownership interest, natural gas and oil production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. The consultants perform an independent analysis and differences are reviewed with our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering. In some cases, additional meetings are held to review additional reserve work performed by the technical teams related to any identified reserve differences.
Historical variances between our reserve estimates and the aggregate estimates of our consultants have been less than 5%. The reserves included in this report on Form 10-K are those reserves estimated by our employees. All of our reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering, who reports directly to our President and Chief Operating Officer. Our Senior Vice President of Reservoir Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the Pennsylvania State University. Before joining Range, he held various technical and managerial positions with Amoco, Hunt Oil and Union Pacific Resources and has thirty years of experience in the oil and gas industry. During the year, our reserves group may also perform separate, detailed technical reviews of reserve estimates for significant acquisitions or for properties with problematic indicators such as excessively long lives, sudden changes in performance or changes in economic or operation conditions. We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2010 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimate of natural gas and oil reserves.
Reserve Technologies
Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. To achieve reasonable certainty, our internal technical staff employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results
with consistency and repeatability. The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, empirical evidence through drilling results and well performance, well logs, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data, well test data and reservoir simulation modeling.
Reporting of Natural Gas Liquids and Oil
We produce natural gas liquids as part of the processing of our natural gas. The extraction of natural gas liquids in the processing of natural gas reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale. At December 31, 2010, natural gas liquids represented approximately 17% of our total proved reserves on an mcf equivalent basis. Natural gas liquids are products sold by the gallon. In reporting proved reserves and production of natural gas liquids, we have included production and reserves in barrels. Prices for a barrel of natural gas liquids in 2010 averaged approximately 56% lower than the average prices for equivalent volumes of oil. We report all production information related to natural gas net of the effect of any reduction in natural gas volumes resulting from the processing of natural gas liquids.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs)
As of December 31, 2010, our PUDs totaled 6.2 Mmbbls of crude oil, 69.7 Mmbbls of natural gas liquids and 1.8 Tcf of natural gas, for a total of 2.3 Tcfe. Costs incurred relating to the development of PUDs were approximately $192.0 million in 2010. Approximately 93% of our PUDs at year-end 2010 were associated with our major development areas in our Marcellus, Nora and Barnett properties. All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2015 with more than 80% of the future development costs to be spent in the next three years. Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to:
Proved Reserves (PV-10)
The following table sets forth the estimated future net cash flows, excluding open hedging contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net cash flows (PV-10), and the expected benchmark prices and average field prices used in projecting net cash flows over the past five years (in millions, except prices):
Future net cash flows represent projected revenues from the sale of proved reserves net of production and development costs (including operating expenses and production taxes). Based on SEC guidance, prices for 2009 and 2010 were based on a twelve-month average, without escalation. Prices for 2006, 2007 and 2008 were based on prices in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. Such calculations are also based on costs in effect at December 31 of each year, without escalation. There can be no assurance that the proved reserves will be produced in the future or that prices and costs will remain constant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating reserves and related information and different reservoir engineers often arrive at different estimates for the same properties.
Producing Wells
The following table sets forth information relating to productive wells at December 31, 2010. We also own royalty interests in an additional 2,600 wells in which we do not own a working interest. If we own both a royalty and a working interest in a well, such interests are included in the table below. Wells are classified as natural gas or crude oil according to their predominant production stream. We do not have a significant number of dual completions.
The day-to-day operations of natural gas and oil properties are the responsibility of the operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs or contracts for field personnel and performs other functions. An operator receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged by unaffiliated third parties. The charges customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated.
Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes drilling activity for the past three years. Gross wells reflect the sum of all wells in which we own an interest. Net wells reflect the sum of our working interests in gross wells. As of December 31, 2010, we were in the process of drilling 106 gross (101 net) wells.
Gross and Net Acreage
We own interests in developed and undeveloped natural gas and oil acreage. These ownership interests generally take the form of working interests in oil and natural gas leases that have varying terms. Developed acreage includes leased acreage that is allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production even though shallower or deeper horizons may not have been fully explored. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the developed and undeveloped acreage in which we own a working interest as of December 31, 2010. Acreage related to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests is excluded from this summary:
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations
The table below summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage scheduled to expire in the next five years.
We have lease acreage that is generally subject to lease expiration if initial wells are not drilled within a specified period, generally between three to five years. However, we have in the past and expect in the future, to be able to extend the lease terms of some of these leases and exchange or sell some of these leases with other companies. The expirations included in the table above do not take into account the fact that we may be able to extend the lease terms. We do not expect to lose significant lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. However, based on our evaluation of prospective economics, we have allowed acreage to expire and will allow additional acreage to expire in the future.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. As is customary in the industry, in the case of undeveloped properties, often minimal investigation of record title is made at the time of lease acquisition. Investigations are made before the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties. Individual properties may be subject to burdens that we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of the properties. Burdens on properties may include:
•
customary royalty interests;
•
liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes;
•
obligations or duties under applicable laws;
•
development obligations under oil and gas leases; or
ITEM 3.