Item 2. Properties, of this Joint Annual Report.
Competitive Strengths
Management believes that the following factors contribute to the Company’s position as a leader in the lodging and vacation ownership industry and provide a foundation for the Company’s business strategy:
Brand Strength. Starwood has assumed a leadership position in markets worldwide based on its superior global distribution, coupled with strong brands and brand recognition. Starwood’s upscale and luxury brands continue to capture market share from competitors by aggressively cultivating new customers while maintaining loyalty among the world’s most active travelers. The strength of the Company’s brands is evidenced, in part, by the superior ratings received from the Company’s hotel guests and from industry publications. In 2003 Starwood had more than 40 of its top hotels on the Condé Nast Traveler’s 2003 Readers Choice Awards List, including nine hotels on their “Top 100 Best Hotels in the World.” For the second year in a row Starwood was named the “World’s Leading Hotel Group” at the World Travel Awards and was again designated as the “World’s Best Global Hotel Company” by Global Finance magazine.
Frequent Guest Program. The Company’s loyalty program, Starwood Preferred Guest® (“SPG”) has over 19 million members and since its inception in 1999, has been awarded the Hotel Program of the Year three times by consumers via the prestigious Freddie Awards. SPG has also received awards for Best Customer Service, Best Web Site, Best Elite-Level Program, Best Award Redemption and Best Newsletter. SPG, which was the first loyalty program in the hotel industry with a policy of no blackout dates and no capacity controls, enables members to redeem stays when they want and where they want. SPG yields repeat guest business due to rewarding frequent stays and purchasers of VOIs with points towards free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of the participating 32 airline programs.
Significant Presence in Top Markets. The Company’s luxury and upscale hotel and resort assets are well positioned throughout the world. These assets are primarily located in major cities and resort areas that management believes have historically demonstrated a strong breadth, depth and growing demand for luxury and upscale hotels and resorts, in which the supply of sites suitable for hotel development has been limited and in which development of such sites is relatively expensive.
Premier and Distinctive Properties. Starwood controls a distinguished and diversified group of hotel properties throughout the world, including the St. Regis in New York, New York; The Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona; the Hotel Gritti Palace in Venice, Italy; the St. Regis in Beijing, China; and the Westin Palace in Madrid, Spain. These are among the leading hotels in the industry and are at the forefront of providing the highest quality and service. Starwood’s properties are consistently recognized as the best of the best by readers of Condé Nast Traveler, who are among the world’s most sophisticated and discerning group of travelers. The November 2003 edition of the Condé Nast Traveler Magazine named nine Starwood properties in the top 100 “Best in the World”, with the Westin Turnberry in Scotland ranked as the top European Resort. In addition, the Condé Nast Traveler Magazine January 2004 issue included 55 Starwood properties among its prestigious Gold List and Gold List Reserve, more than any other hotel company.
Scale. As one of the largest hotel and leisure companies focusing on the luxury and upscale full-service lodging market, Starwood has the scale to support its core marketing and reservation functions. The Company also believes that its scale will contribute to lowering its cost of operations through purchasing economies areas such as insurance, energy, telecommunications, technology, employee benefits, food and beverage, furniture, fixtures and equipment and operating supplies.
Diversification of Cash Flow and Assets. Management believes that the diversity of the Company’s brands, market segments served, revenue sources and geographic locations provides a broad base from which to enhance revenue and profits and to strengthen the Company’s global brands. This diversity limits the Company’s exposure to any particular lodging or vacation ownership asset, brand or geographic region.
While Starwood focuses on the luxury and upscale portion of the full-service lodging and vacation ownership markets, the Company’s brands cater to a diverse group of sub-markets within this market. For example, the St. Regis hotels cater to high-end hotel and resort clientele while Four Points by Sheraton hotels deliver extensive amenities and services at more affordable rates.
Starwood derives its cash flow from multiple sources within its hotel and vacation ownership segments, including owned hotels activity and management and franchise fees, and is geographically diverse with operations around the world. The following tables reflect the Company’s hotel and vacation ownership properties by type of revenue source and geographical presence by major geographic area as of December 31, 2003:
(a)
Includes wholly owned, majority owned and leased hotels.
Business Segment and Geographical Information
Incorporated by reference in Note 22. Business Segment and Geographical Information, in the notes to financial statements set forth in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Business Strategy
The Company’s primary business objective is to maximize earnings and cash flow by increasing the profitability of the Company’s existing portfolio; selectively acquiring interests in additional assets; increasing the number of the Company’s hotel management contracts and franchise agreements; acquiring and developing vacation ownership resorts and selling VOIs; and maximizing the value of its owned real estate properties, including selectively disposing of non-core hotels and “trophy” assets that may be sold at significant premiums. The Company plans to meet these objectives by leveraging its global assets, broad customer base and other resources and by taking advantage of the Company’s scale to reduce costs. The uncertainty relating to the timing and strength of recoveries in the North American and European economies, combined with current political and economic environments in South America, the Middle East and other parts of the world and their consequent impact on travel in their respective regions and the rest of the world, make financial planning and implementation of our strategy more challenging.
Growth Opportunities. Management has identified several growth opportunities with a goal of enhancing the Company’s operating performance and profitability, including:
•
Continuing to expand the Company’s role as a third-party manager of hotels and resorts. This allows Starwood to expand the presence of its lodging brands and gain additional cash flow generally with modest capital commitment;
•
Franchising the Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton and Luxury Collection brands to selected third-party operators and licensing the Westin, W and St. Regis brand names to selected third parties in connection with luxury residential condominiums, thereby expanding the Company’s
market presence, enhancing the exposure of its hotel brands and providing additional income through franchise and license fees;
•
Expanding the Company’s internet presence and sales capabilities to increase revenue and improve customer service;
•
Continuing to grow the Company’s frequent guest program, thereby increasing occupancy rates while providing the Company’s customers with benefits based upon loyalty to the Company’s hotels and vacation ownership resorts;
•
Enhancing the Company’s marketing efforts by integrating the Company’s proprietary customer databases, so as to sell additional products and services to existing customers, improve occupancy rates and create additional marketing opportunities;
•
Optimizing the Company’s use of its real estate assets to improve ancillary revenue, such as condominium sales and restaurant, beverage and parking revenue from the Company’s hotels and resorts;
•
Continuing to build the “W” hotel brand to appeal to upscale business travelers and other customers seeking full-service hotels in major markets by, among other things, placing Bliss Spa®, which the Company acquired in January 2004, in “W” hotels and expanding the W brand to resorts in non-urban areas;
•
Innovations such as the Heavenly Bed® and Heavenly Bath®, the Sheraton Sweet SleeperSM Bed and the Sheraton Service PromiseSM;
•
Renovating, upgrading and expanding the Company’s branded hotels to further its strategy of strengthening brand identity;
•
Developing additional vacation ownership resorts and leveraging our hotel real estate assets where possible through VOI construction and residential or condominium sales;
•
Leveraging the Bliss product line and distribution channels; and
•
Increasing operating efficiencies through increased use of technology.
Starwood intends to explore opportunities to expand and diversify the Company’s hotel portfolio through minority investments and selective acquisitions of properties domestically and internationally that meet some or all of the following criteria:
•
Luxury and upscale hotels and resorts in major metropolitan areas and business centers;
•
Major tourist hotels, destination resorts or conference centers that have favorable demographic trends and are located in markets with significant barriers to entry or with major room demand generators such as office or retail complexes, airports, tourist attractions or universities;
•
Undervalued hotels whose performance can be increased by re-branding to one of the Company’s hotel brands, the introduction of better and more efficient management techniques and practices and/or the injection of capital for renovating, expanding or repositioning the property;
•
Hotels or brands which would enable the Company to provide a wider range of amenities and services to customers; and
•
Portfolios of hotels or hotel companies that exhibit some or all of the criteria listed above, where the purchase of several hotels in one transaction enables Starwood to obtain favorable pricing or obtain attractive assets that would otherwise not be available or realize cost reductions on operating the hotels by incorporating them into the Starwood system.
Starwood may also selectively choose to develop and construct desirable hotels and resorts to help the Company meet its strategic goals, such as the ongoing development of the St. Regis Museum Tower Hotel in San Francisco, California which is expected to have approximately 269 rooms and 102 condominiums.
Furthermore, the Company has developed plans for flexible new-build Sheraton and Westin prototypes, with the intent of expanding these brands into tertiary markets.
Competition
The hotel industry is highly competitive. Competition is generally based on quality and consistency of room, restaurant and meeting facilities and services, attractiveness of locations, availability of a global distribution system, price, the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points and other factors. Management believes that Starwood competes favorably in these areas. Starwood’s properties compete with other hotels and resorts, including facilities owned by local interests and facilities owned by national and international chains, in their geographic markets. The principal competitors of Starwood include other hotel operating companies, ownership companies (including hotel REITs) and national and international hotel brands.
Starwood encounters strong competition as a hotel, resort and vacation ownership operator and developer. While some of the Company’s competitors are private management firms, several are large national and international chains that own and operate their own hotels, as well as manage hotels for third-party owners and develop and sell VOIs, under a variety of brands that compete directly with the Company’s brands. In addition, hotel management contracts are typically long-term arrangements, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if certain financial or performance criteria are not met.
Environmental Matters
Starwood is subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations (“Environmental Laws”). For example, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such real property or to borrow using such real property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such wastes at the treatment, storage or disposal facility, regardless of whether such facility is owned or operated by such person. Starwood uses certain substances and generates certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under applicable Environmental Laws, and Starwood from time to time has incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses of certain of the Company’s current or former properties or the Company’s treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Other Environmental Laws require abatement or removal of certain asbestos-containing materials (“ACMs”) (limited quantities of which are present in various building materials such as spray-on insulation, floor coverings, ceiling coverings, tiles, decorative treatments and piping located at certain of the Company’s hotels) in the event of damage or demolition, or certain renovations or remodeling. These laws also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Environmental Laws also regulate polychlorinated biphenyls (“PCBs”), which may be present in electrical equipment. A number of the Company’s hotels have underground storage tanks (“USTs”) and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons (“CFCs”); the operation and subsequent removal or upgrading of certain USTs and the use of equipment containing CFCs also are regulated by Environmental Laws. In connection with the Company’s ownership, operation and management of its properties, Starwood could be held liable for costs of remedial or other action with respect to PCBs, USTs or CFCs.
Environmental Laws are not the only source of environmental liability. Under the common law, owners and operators of real property may face liability for personal injury or property damage because of various environmental conditions such as alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic substances (including, but not limited to, ACMs, PCBs and CFCs), poor indoor air quality, radon or poor drinking water quality.
Although Starwood has incurred and expects to incur remediation and various environmental-related costs during the ordinary course of operations, management anticipates that such costs will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company.
Seasonality and Diversification
The hotel industry is seasonal in nature; however, the periods during which the Company’s properties experience higher revenue activities vary from property to property and depend principally upon location. Other than 2001, which was dramatically impacted by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York, Washington, D.C. and Pennsylvania (the “September 11 Attacks”) and their aftermath, the Company’s revenues and operating income historically have been lower in the first quarter than in the second, third or fourth quarters.
Comparability of Owned Hotel Results
Starwood continually updates and renovates its owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels. While undergoing renovation, these hotels are generally not operating at full capacity and, as such, these renovations can negatively impact Starwood’s revenues and operating income.
Employees
At December 31, 2003, Starwood employed approximately 110,000 employees at its corporate offices, owned and managed hotels and vacation ownership resorts, of whom approximately 54% were employed in the United States. At December 31, 2003, approximately 32% of the U.S.-based employees were covered by various collective bargaining agreements providing, generally, for basic pay rates, working hours, other conditions of employment and orderly settlement of labor disputes. Generally, labor relations have been maintained in a normal and satisfactory manner, and management believes that the Company’s employee relations are good.
Item 2. Properties.
Starwood is one of the largest hotel and leisure companies in the world, with operations in 82 countries. Starwood considers its hotels and resorts, including vacation ownership resorts (together “Resorts”), generally to be premier establishments with respect to desirability of location, size, facilities, physical condition, quality and variety of services offered in the markets in which they are located. Although obsolescence arising from age and condition of facilities can adversely affect the Company’s Resorts, Starwood and third-party owners of managed and franchised Resorts expend substantial funds to renovate and maintain their facilities in order to remain competitive. For further information, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Joint Annual Report.
The Company’s hotel business included 738 owned, managed or franchised hotels with approximately 229,000 rooms and its vacation ownership business included 18 vacation ownership resorts at December 31, 2003, predominantly under six brands. All brands represent full-service properties that range in amenities from luxury hotels and resorts to more moderately priced hotels. As a result of the Bliss acquisition, the Company also leases three stand alone Bliss Spas, two in New York, New York and one in London, England.
The following table reflects the Company’s hotel and vacation ownership properties, by brand:
St. Regis Hotels & Resorts (luxury full-service hotels and resorts) deliver the most discreet, personalized and anticipatory level of service to high-end leisure and business travelers. St. Regis hotels typically have individual design characteristics to accentuate each individual location and city. Most St. Regis hotels have spacious, luxurious rooms and suites with highly designed, residential surroundings and include a 4- or 5-Star restaurant on premises. The Company is in the process of developing several condominium and fractional residential properties as part of existing, or to be built, St. Regis hotels. Some of these properties include the St. Regis Museum Tower Hotel in San Francisco, California, scheduled to open in mid 2005, the Residence Club in Aspen, Colorado, scheduled to open during the summer of 2005 and Temenos, Anguilla, a St. Regis Retreat, which is scheduled to debut in 2006.
The Luxury Collection (luxury full-service hotels and resorts) is a group of unique hotels and resorts offering exceptional service to an elite clientele (some of which may also be branded a St. Regis, Sheraton or Westin). The Luxury Collection includes some of the world’s most renowned and legendary hotels generally well known by the individual hotel name. These hotels are distinguished by magnificent decor, spectacular settings and impeccable service.
Sheraton Hotels & Resorts (upscale full-service hotels and resorts) is the Company’s largest brand serving the needs of upscale business and leisure travelers worldwide. Sheraton hotels and resorts offer the entire spectrum of comfort, from full-service hotels in major cities to luxurious resorts. These hotels and resorts typically feature a wide variety of on-site business services and a full range of amenities including rooms that feature generous work spaces, allowing business travelers to stay productive on the road.
Westin Hotels & Resorts (luxury and upscale full-service hotels and resorts) are first-class, signature hotels that typically make up an integral part of a city or region in which the hotels are located. Westin hotels and resorts are characterized by a commitment to uncompromised elegance, service and guest experience. The
Company has an agreement with a third party to operate the Westin Trillium House, a luxury condominium hotel in Ontario, Canada, that is scheduled to open in the summer of 2005.
W Hotels (stylish boutique full-service urban hotels and resorts) was inaugurated in December 1998 with the opening of the W New York. W hotels provide a unique hotel alternative to business travelers, combining the personality, style and distinctive flavor of an intimate hotel with the functionality, reliability and attentive service of a major business and leisure hotel. W hotels feature modern, sophisticated design with custom-made furnishings and accessories, fully wired rooms with the most advanced technology in the industry, and unique, high-quality signature restaurants and bars. The Company is in the process of developing several condominium residences as part of the W hotels, including the W Dallas Victory Hotel and Residences which is expected to open in late 2005 and the W Ft. Lauderdale Hotel and Residences, which is scheduled to open in December 2006.
Four Points by Sheraton (moderately priced full-service hotels) deliver extensive amenities and services such as room service, dry cleaning, fitness centers, meeting facilities and business centers to frequent business travelers at reasonable prices. These hotels provide a comfortable, well-appointed room, which typically includes a two-line telephone, a large desk for working or in-room dining, comfortable seating and full-service restaurants.
Hotel Business
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels. The following table summarizes revenue per available room (“REVPAR”)(1), average daily rates (“ADR”) and average occupancy rates on a year-to-year basis for the Company’s 140 owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels (excluding 25 hotels sold or closed during 2002 and 2003) (“Same-Store Owned Hotels”) for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002:
(1)
REVPAR is calculated by dividing room revenue which is derived from rooms and suites rented or leased, by total room nights available for a given period. REVPAR may not be comparable to similarly titled measures such as revenues.
During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company invested approximately $259 million and $262 million, respectively, for capital improvements at owned hotels and capital expenditures on technology development. During 2003 and 2002, these capital expenditures included continued development of the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco, California and renovations of the Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona, the Westin Excelsior in Rome, Italy, the Westin Galleria and Oaks in Houston, Texas and the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers in New York, New York.
Managed and Franchised Hotels. Hotel and resort properties in the United States are often owned by entities that do not manage hotels or own a brand name. Hotel owners typically enter into management contracts with hotel management companies to operate their hotels. When a management company does not offer a brand affiliation, the hotel owner often chooses to pay separate franchise fees to secure the benefits of brand marketing, centralized reservations and other centralized administrative functions, particularly in the sales and marketing area. Management believes that companies, such as Starwood, that offer both hotel management services and well-established worldwide brand names appeal to hotel owners by providing the full range of management and marketing services.
Managed Hotels. Starwood manages hotels worldwide, usually under a long-term agreement with the hotel owner (including entities in which Starwood has a minority equity interest). The Company’s responsibilities under hotel management contracts typically include hiring, training and supervising the managers and employees that operate these facilities. For additional fees, Starwood provides reservation services and coordinates national advertising and certain marketing and promotional services. Starwood prepares and implements annual budgets for the hotels it manages and is responsible for allocating property-owner funds for periodic maintenance and repair of buildings and furnishings. In addition to the Company’s owned and leased hotels, at December 31, 2003, Starwood managed 286 hotels with approximately 98,000 rooms worldwide.
Management contracts typically provide for base fees tied to gross revenue and incentive fees tied to profits as well as fees for other services, including centralized reservations, sales and marketing, public relations and national and international media advertising. In the Company’s experience, owners seek hotel managers that can provide attractively priced base, incentive, marketing and franchise fees combined with demonstrated sales and marketing expertise and operations-focused management designed to enhance profitability. Some of the Company’s management contracts permit the hotel owner to terminate the agreement when the hotel is sold or otherwise transferred to a third party, as well as if Starwood fails to meet established performance criteria. In addition, many hotel owners seek equity, debt or other investments from Starwood to help finance hotel renovations or conversions to a Starwood brand so as to align the interests of the owner and the Company. The Company’s ability or willingness to make such investments may determine, in part, whether Starwood will be offered, will accept, or will retain a particular management contract. During 2003, the Company signed management agreements for 27 hotels with approximately 10,000 rooms.
Brand Franchising and Licensing. Starwood franchises its Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton and Luxury Collection brand names and generally derives licensing and other fees from franchisees based on a fixed percentage of the franchised hotel’s room revenue, as well as fees for other services, including centralized reservations, sales and marketing, public relations and national and international media advertising. In addition, a franchisee may also purchase hotel supplies, including brand-specific products, from certain Starwood-approved vendors. Starwood approves certain plans for, and the location of, franchised hotels and reviews their design. At December 31, 2003, there were 312 franchised properties with approximately 81,000 rooms operating under the Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton and Luxury Collection brands. During 2003, the Company signed franchise agreements with 21 hotels with approximately 4,000 rooms.
Starwood also entered into management contracts with several owners in 2003 for mixed use hotel projects which include a residential component. To facilitate the sale of the residential units, Starwood entered into licensing agreements for the use of its W, Westin and St. Regis brands to allow the owners to offer branded condominiums to prospective purchasers. In consideration, Starwood will receive a licensing fee equal to a percentage of the gross sales revenue of the units sold. The licensing arrangement terminates upon sell-out of the units or upon termination of the management contract.
Vacation Ownership Business
The Company develops, owns and operates vacation ownership resorts, markets and sells the VOIs in the resorts and, in many cases, provides financing to customers who purchase such ownership interests. Owners of VOIs can trade their interval for intervals at other Starwood vacation ownership resorts, for intervals at certain vacation ownership resorts not otherwise sponsored by Starwood through an exchange company, or for hotel
stays at Starwood properties. From time to time, the Company securitizes or sells the receivables generated from its sales of VOIs.
At December 31, 2003, the Company had 18 vacation ownership resorts in its portfolio with six actively selling VOIs, four under construction, two expected to start construction shortly and six that had sold all existing inventory. During 2003, the Company held the grand opening of the Westin Ka’anapali Ocean Resort and Villas in Maui, Hawaii. The first phase of the resort (103 units) was sold out prior to opening. Also during 2003, the Company announced a brand extension and fractional product with the St. Regis Aspen Residence Club (25 units). During 2003 and 2002, the Company invested approximately $140 million and $96 million, respectively, for capital expenditures, including VOI construction at Westin Ka’anapali, Westin Mission Hills Resort Villas in Rancho Mirage, California, and Westin Kierland in Scottsdale, Arizona and the acquisition in 2002 of 18.5 acres for a new Westin vacation ownership development in Princeville, Hawaii.
Item 3.