ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
For information with respect to the properties owned, managed, franchised or represented by ITT and Westin, see Item 1 of this Joint Annual Report.
At December 31, 1997, the Company owned, operated and managed a geographically diversified portfolio of hotel assets, including fee, ground lease and first mortgage interests in 120 hotel properties containing approximately 32,800 guest rooms located in 34 states and the District of Columbia, Mexico and Scotland. At that time, 92 of such hotels were operated under licensing, membership, franchise or management agreements or leases with national hotel organizations, including Ritz Carlton(R), Westin(R), Marriott(R), Hilton(R), Sheraton(R), Omni(R), Doubletree(R), Embassy Suites(R), Crowne Plaza(R), Courtyard By Marriott(R), Wyndham(R), Ramada(R), Radisson(R), Clarion(R), Holiday Inn(R), Residence Inn(R), Days Inn(R), Best Western(R) and Vagabond Inn(R).
EQUITY INVESTMENTS
As of December 31, 1997, the Company had equity investments in 102 properties containing a total of over 27,500 guest rooms. All but six of the properties are owned by the Trust. Those six properties -- the Milwaukee Sheraton, the Midland Hotel, the Turnberry Hotel and Golf Resort and the Westin Regina Resorts in Cancun, Cabo San Lucas and Puerto Vallarta, Mexico -- are owned by the Operating Partnership; all are subject to mortgages held by the Trust. Of the 96 hotels owned by the Trust at December 31, 1997, all but four are leased to the Corporation or its subsidiaries pursuant to leases between the Trust and the Corporation (the "Intercompany Leases").
Each of the Intercompany Leases provides for the lessee's payment of annual minimum rent in a specified amount plus additional rent based on a percentage of the gross revenues (or items thereof) of the leased property. The Intercompany Leases have an average remaining term of three years. The Intercompany Leases are "triple-net" -- i.e., the lessee is generally responsible for paying all operating expenses of the hotel property, including maintenance and repair costs, insurance premiums and real estate and personal property taxes, and for making all rental and other payments required pursuant to any underlying ground leases. As lessee, the Operating Partnership retains all of the profits, net of rents and other expenses, and bears all risk of losses, generated by the hotel property's operations.
Of the four Trust hotels not subject to Intercompany Leases, the three Vagabond Inns (the "Vagabond Inns") as of December 31, 1997 were leased by the Trust to a third party pursuant to ground leases that expire in 2001, 2007 and 2008, respectively. In February 1998, the Trust sold its leasehold interests in the Vagabond Inns for approximately $7.7 million. The remaining property, the Doral Inn, is leased by the Trust to a third party; such lease expires in 2005. The Trust owns the land underlying the Doral Inn and holds a leasehold mortgage on the building and personal property; the Operating Partnership operates the hotel pursuant to a sublease. Lastly, the Marriott Forrestal Village is leased by the Trust to the Corporation, which, in turn, leases the property to a third party. Both such leases expire in 2007.
The following table sets forth the average occupancy rate, average daily rate ("ADR"), REVPAR and certain other information concerning the Company's non-gaming hotels (excluding the Vagabond Inns) for the year ended December 31, 1997. Each hotel in the following table is owned by the Trust and leased to the Corporation, except as noted.
- ---------------
(1) "Year acquired" represents the calendar year in which the Trust or Corporation (or a predecessor) made its initial investment in the property.
(2) Property is owned by the Corporation subject to a first mortgage to the Trust.
(3) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in December 2055, which is terminable by the ground lessor after September 1999 and prior to that time, upon six months' notice under certain circumstances.
(4) Property is an asset held for sale at December 31, 1997.
(5) The Trust owns a 58.2% general partnership interest in the partnership that owns this hotel. The property is subject to the BPP Mortgage (as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities -- Credit Facilities and Recent Stock Sales" included in Item 7 of this Joint Annual Report).
(6) Property is subject to a mortgage under the Doral Mortgage(as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities -- Loan and Credit Facilities" included in Item 7 of this Joint Annual Report).
(7) The Trust owns a 93.5% general partnership interest in the partnership that owns this hotel.
(8) The Trust owns the land and holds a leasehold mortgage on the hotel building and personal property; the Operating Partnership operates the hotel pursuant to a sublease.
(9) Property is subject to a mortgage under the Stamford Note (as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities -- Loan and Credit Facilities" included in Item 7 of this Joint Annual Report).
(10) Property is subject to the Crowne Plaza Mortgage (as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities -- Loans and Credit Facilities" included in Item 7 of this Joint Annual Report).
(11) Property is subject to a mortgage under the Bancomer Note (as defined in"Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities -- Loans and Credit Facilities" included in Item 7 of this Joint Annual Report).
(12) Property is subject to a mortgage under the Tax Exempt Bonds (as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flows from Investing and Financing Activities -- Loans and Credit Facilities" included in Item 7 of this Joint Annual Report).
(13) The Trust owns a 95% interest in this property.
(14) The Trust owns a 49% interest in this property.
(15) Property is subject to ground leases that expire between 1999 to 2007, depending on the parcel.
(16) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in 2029.
(17) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in 1999.
(18) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in 2067.
(19) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in 2054.
(20) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in 2010.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Seventy-three of the 102 hotel properties in which Starwood Hotels had an equity interest at December 31, 1997 were operated at such time pursuant to franchise or license agreements ("Franchise Agreements"), including 14 Franchise Agreements with Westin and 13 Franchise Agreements with Sheraton. The Franchise Agreements generally require the payment of a monthly royalty fee based on gross room revenue and various other fees associated with certain marketing or advertising and centralized reservation services, which fees also are generally based on gross room revenues.
The Franchise Agreements have various durations but generally may be terminated upon not more than three years' prior notice or upon payment of certain specified fees.
The Franchise Agreements generally contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, the operation and maintenance of the hotels, which standards are established by the franchisors to maintain uniformity in the system created by each such franchisor. Such standards generally regulate the appearance of the hotel, the quality and type of goods and services offered, signage and usage of trade and service marks.
The Franchise Agreements also typically contain financial reporting requirements relating to the calculation of royalty and other fees and insurance requirements with respect to coverage for specified liabilities, approved coverage limits and minimum insurance company ratings.
The Franchise Agreements generally require the consent of the franchisor to a transfer of an interest in the applicable franchise, and both the consent of the franchisor and the execution of a new franchise agreement in the event of a transfer of all or a controlling portion of the franchisee under the relevant Franchise Agreement. In addition, some Franchise Agreements may require payment of an initial fee upon establishment of a franchise relationship.
The Company intends to convert many of its hotels to a Westin or Sheraton brand.
MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS
As of December 31, 1997, nine of the Company-owned hotels were managed by third-party operators. The Marriott Forrestal Village is operated by Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott") pursuant to a lease expiring in 2007, and the Ritz Carlton Hotels in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Kansas City, Missouri are operated by an affiliate of Marriott pursuant to operating agreements that terminate in 1999 but are subject to earlier termination if certain annual financial performance standards are not met. The Westin Regina Resorts in Cabo San Lucas, Cancun and Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, the Westin Mission Hills Resort in Rancho Mirage, California; the Westin Aquila in Omaha, Nebraska; and the Turnberry Hotel and Golf Resort in Ayreshire, Scotland have been operated by Westin Worldwide since their respective acquisition dates by the Company.
Each of the management agreements described above provides that the operator has the exclusive right to direct the operations of the hotel subject to that agreement. The operator is responsible for maintaining and making all necessary repairs to the managed hotel, hiring, training and supervising all hotel employees, and performing all hotel bookkeeping and other administrative duties. Each operator is required to submit to the Company for its approval an annual budget that includes proposed capital expenditures, and the operator makes only those capital expenditures that are approved by the Company. The Company is required to make available to each operator sufficient working capital to operate the hotel.
For their services in managing the hotels, each operator receives a fee equal to a specified percentage (generally 2%-4%) of the gross revenues of the managed hotel, plus additional incentive fees based upon the hotel's operating profits.
As of December 31 1997, the Company managed nine hotels owned by third parties. Certain of these management agreements are currently month-to-month; others have expiration dates ranging from 1999 to 2016. Management fees ranging from 2.5% of hotel revenues to 4% of hotel revenues.
MORTGAGE AND OTHER NOTES RECEIVABLES
At December 31, 1997, the Trust held nine promissory notes issued by the Operating Partnership. Three of those notes ($31.8 million in aggregate principal amount at December 31, 1997) are secured by the Sheraton Hotel in Milwaukee, Wisconsin; one note ($40.3 million in principal amount at December 31, 1997) is secured by the Doral Inn in New York, New York; one note ($20.0 million in principal amount at December 31, 1997) is secured by the Midland Hotel in Chicago, Illinois; one note ($42.3 million in principal amount at December 31, 1997) is secured by the Westin Regina in Cancun, Mexico; one note ($54.7 million in principal amount at December 31, 1997) is secured by the Westin Regina in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico; one note ($25.3 million in principal amount at December 31, 1997) is secured by the Westin Regina in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico; and one note ($27.0 million in principal amount at December 31, 1997) is secured by the Turnberry Hotel and Golf Resort in Ayreshire, Scotland.
At December 31, 1997, the Trust held 11 promissory notes that were either contributed by the Starwood Partners to the Realty Partnership as part of the Reorganization, executed by third-party purchasers of the Trust's hotels, or purchased by the Trust, all of which are secured by mortgages (including deeds of trust) on eight hotels in the aggregate. Of these 11 promissory notes, eight notes ($63.0 million in aggregate principal amount at December 31, 1997) are secured by first mortgages and three notes ($0.2 million in aggregate principal amount as of December 31, 1997) are secured by second mortgages. Seven of these 11 notes have fixed interest rates that currently range from 8% to 10% per annum; one note has a variable interest rate that was the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 1.25% per annum at December 31, 1997; one note also provides for contingent interest based on a percentage of the gross revenue of the property securing such note and three notes are non-interest bearing. The maturity dates of the 11 notes range from current to December 2006.
For additional information with respect to the mortgage notes receivable held by the Trust, see Notes 14 and 15 and Schedule IV of Notes to Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Joint Annual Report.
In December 1987, in connection with the acquisition by the Company of an interest in two Atlanta, Georgia area hotels (which have been subsequently sold), a former officer of the Trust assumed certain obligations of the seller, which obligations are evidenced by an unsecured promissory note to the Trust in the principal amount of $800,000. Interest on the outstanding principal amount of this note accrues interest at an annual rate of 10% and is payable annually; the entire principal amount of the note is due in December 1999. During 1995, the Trust loaned another former officer of the Trust, on an unsecured basis, $250,000, of which $100,000 was outstanding as of December 31, 1997. The remaining principal amount is due in July 2005 and bears interest at an annual rate equal to the lowest applicable rate prescribed by Section 1274(d) of the Code.
During 1996, the Corporation made a $150,000 non-interest bearing bridge loan to a former officer of the Corporation, Eric A. Danziger, which loan was repaid in February 1998; and a $250,000 non-interest bearing loan to Theodore W. Darnall, an officer of the Corporation, of which $150,000 remained outstanding as of December 31, 1997. This loan is secured by a second mortgage on Mr. Darnall's residence in Phoenix, Arizona, and will mature as to $150,000 upon termination of Mr. Darnall's employment with the Corporation. (See Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Joint Annual Report and "Employment and Compensation Agreements with Executive Officers" included in Item 11 hereof.)
REGULATION AND LICENSING
Casino Gaming Regulation -- General. As a result of the ITT Merger, Starwood Hotels' gaming operations include Caesars Palace and the Desert Inn Resort & Casino ("Desert Inn"), both in Las Vegas, Nevada; Caesars Atlantic City in Atlantic City, New Jersey; Caesars Tahoe in Stateline, Nevada; the Sheraton Casino in Tunica County, Mississippi; the Sheraton Lima Hotel and Casino in Lima, Peru; the Sheraton Halifax Hotel and Casino in Halifax, Nova Scotia; the Sheraton Casino Sydney in Sydney, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia. Caesars also owns one-half of a management company that operates Casino Windsor, a casino in Windsor, Canada, which is owned by Government of the Province of Ontario. A Caesars subsidiary operates small casinos on two cruise ships as well. Sheraton also operates casinos in Australia and Egypt. In
May 1996, Caesars was granted a certificate of suitability by the Indiana Gaming Commission to construct and operate a riverboat casino on the Ohio River in Harrison County, Indiana, across the river from Louisville, Kentucky. Construction of the facility is subject to receipt of various consents, permits and approvals. Another subsidiary of the Corporation, Hotel Investors Corporation of Nevada ("HICN"), leases and operates the King 8 Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Trust sold the King 8 in 1996 pursuant to an arrangement in which HICN agreed to continue to operate the hotel and casino to the earlier of when the purchaser or his designee obtains required gaming licenses and approvals or June 30, 1998.
The Desert Inn is owned and operated by Sheraton Desert Inn Corporation ("SDI"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sheraton Gaming Corporation ("SGC"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sheraton (Sheraton, SGC and SDI are collectively referred to as the "Sheraton Desert Inn Companies"). The Sheraton Casino in Tunica County, Mississippi, is owned and operated by Sheraton Tunica Corporation ("STC"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of SDI.
Caesars' casino gaming operations in Las Vegas, Nevada and Stateline, Nevada are conducted by Desert Palace, Inc. ("DPI"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Caesars Palace Corporation ("CPC"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Caesars (Caesars, CPC and DPI are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Caesars Nevada Companies"). Caesars is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sheraton. Caesars' casino gaming operations in Atlantic City are conducted by Boardwalk Regency Corporation ("BRC"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Caesars New Jersey, Inc. ("CNJ"), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Caesars (as required by the context, Caesars, CNJ and BRC are collectively referred to as the "Caesars New Jersey Companies"). In addition, DPI owns all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Tele/Info, Inc. ("Tele/Info"), which is a Nevada licensed disseminator of horse race simulcasts for the purpose of receiving and disseminating live telecasts of horse racing information.
The ownership and/or operation of casino gaming facilities in the United States are subject to extensive Federal, state and local regulations. Under Federal Law, Starwood Hotels' casino gaming operations are specifically subject to the compliance with the Gambling Devices Act of 1962, as amended, and the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended. These statutes govern the ownership, possession, manufacture, distribution and transportation in interstate commerce of gaming devices, and the recording and reporting of currency transactions, respectively. Starwood Hotels' Nevada casino gaming operations are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Nevada Act"), and the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the "Nevada Commission") and the Nevada State Gaming Control Board (the "Nevada Board"), as well as, certain county government agencies (collectively referred to as the "Nevada Gaming Authorities"). Due to the development of a riverboat gaming facility located on the Ohio River in Harrison County, Indiana, Starwood Hotels' casino gaming operations in Indiana are subject to the Indiana Gaming Control Act (the "Indiana Act"), and the licensing and regulatory control of the Indiana Gaming Commission, as well as various local, county and state regulatory agencies. Starwood Hotels' New Jersey casino gaming operations are subject to the New Jersey Casino Control Act (the "New Jersey Act"), and the licensing and regulatory control of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission (the "New Jersey Commission"), and the New Jersey Department of Law & Public Safety, Divisions of Gaming Enforcement (the "New Jersey DGE"), as well as various local, county and state regulatory agencies (collectively referred to as the "New Jersey Gaming Authorities"). Starwood Hotels' Mississippi casino gaming operations are subject to the Mississippi Gaming Control Act (the "Mississippi Act"), and the licensing and regulatory control of the Mississippi Gaming Commission (the "Mississippi Commission"), as well as various local, county and state regulatory agencies (collectively referred to as the "Mississippi Gaming Authorities"). Starwood Hotels' Ontario casino gaming operations are subject to the Ontario Gaming Control Act (the "Ontario Act"), and the licensing and regulatory control of the Ontario Gaming Control Commission (the "Ontario Commission"), as well as various local, provincial and federal regulatory agencies (collectively referred to as the "Ontario Gaming Authorities"). Starwood Hotels' Nova Scotia casino gaming operations are subject to the Nova Scotia Gaming Control Act (the "Nova Scotia Act"), and the licensing and regulatory control of the Nova Scotia Gaming Control Commission (the "Nova Scotia Commission"), as well as various local, provincial and federal regulatory agencies (collectively referred to as the "Nova Scotia Gaming Authorities").
The casino gaming laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of Nevada, New Jersey, Indiana, Mississippi, Ontario and Nova Scotia are extensive and reflect certain public policy considerations as to (i) the integrity of casino gaming operations and their participants; (ii) the need for strict governmental and regulatory control of casino gaming operations; (iii) the creation of economic development, taxes and employment; and, (iv) the maintenance and development of public confidence and trust in casino gaming regulation and control. Changes to these laws, regulations and supervisory procedures could have an adverse effect on Starwood Hotels' casino gaming operations.
Nevada Gaming Regulation. The gaming laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of Nevada seek to (i) prevent unsavory or unsuitable persons from having any direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity; (ii) establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures; (iii) maintain effective control over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping, and making periodic reports to the applicable casino gaming authority; (iv) prevent cheating and fraudulent practices; and, (v) provide a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees.
Starwood Hotels, ITT and Caesars are registered with the Nevada Commission as publicly traded corporations and Starwood Hotels has been found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to own all of the outstanding capital stock of ITT and HICN. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have found suitable ITT as the sole shareholder of Sheraton. Sheraton is registered with the Nevada Commission as an intermediary company and been found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to own all the outstanding capital stock of Caesars and SGC. Similarly, SGC is registered with the Nevada Commission as an intermediary company and been found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to own all the outstanding capital stock of SDI.
SDI operates the Desert Inn, DPI operates both Caesars Palace and Caesars Tahoe, and HICN operates the King 8 pursuant to licenses granted by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. These casino gaming licenses are not transferrable and must be renewed periodically by the payment of various gaming license fees and taxes. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of profits from SDI, DPI or HICN without first obtaining certain required licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, a corporation which is involved in gaming activities. Officers, directors and key employees of each of SDI, DPI and HICN must be individually licensed by, and changes in corporate positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities, which changes may be disapproved by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Certain of Starwood Hotels' officers, directors and key employees and those of Starwood Hotels' subsidiaries who are actively and directly involved in Starwood Hotels' gaming activities have been, and others may be, required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing for any cause which they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation.
If the Nevada Gaming Authorities find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with Starwood Hotels, ITT, the Sheraton Desert Inn Companies, the Caesars Nevada Companies or HICN, the companies involved would be required to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require a registered company or licensee to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications or disclosures.
Starwood Hotels, ITT, the Sheraton Desert Inn Companies, the Caesars Nevada Companies and HICN are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions by either SDI, DPI or HICN must be reported to or approved by the Nevada Commission. Nevada law prohibits a corporation registered by the Nevada Commission from making a public offering of its securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission if any part of the proceeds of the offering of the securities is, or the securities themselves are, to be used either to (i) finance the construction, acquisition or operation of gaming facilities in Nevada; or (ii) retire or extend obligations incurred for one or more such purposes.
If it were determined that the Nevada Act was violated by SDI, DPI or HICN, the gaming license each holds could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked. In addition, at the discretion of the Nevada Commission, Starwood Hotels, ITT, the Sheraton Desert Inn Companies and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act by the Desert Inn. Similarly, and also at the discretion of the Nevada Commission, Starwood Hotels, ITT, the Caesars Nevada Companies and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act by either Caesars Palace or Caesars Tahoe. Likewise, the Nevada Commission may exercise its discretion to impose substantial fines on Starwood Hotels, HICN and the persons involved for each separate violation of the Nevada Act by the King 8. Furthermore, a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to operate the gaming property of SDI, DPI or HICN and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the affected gaming property) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Any suspension or revocation of the licenses or approvals, or the appointment of a supervisor, would have a material adverse effect on SDI, DPI or HICN, as the case may be.
The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate and require a finding of suitability of any holder of any class of Starwood Hotels' voting securities at any time. Nevada law requires any person who acquires more than 5% of any class of Starwood Hotels' voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission and such person may be investigated and found suitable or not suitable. Any person who becomes a beneficial owner of more than 10% of any class of Starwood Hotels' voting securities must apply for a finding of suitability by the Nevada Commission within 30 days after the Nevada Board Chairman mails a written notice requiring such filing, and must pay the costs and fees incurred by the Nevada Board in connection with the investigation. Under certain circumstances, an "institutional investor," as defined by the Nevada Act, that acquires more than 10% but not more than 15% of Starwood Hotels' voting securities may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirements if such institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of either the Board of Directors or the Board of Trustees, any change in Starwood Hotels' corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations or any of Starwood Hotels' casino gaming operations, or any other action which the Nevada Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding Starwood Hotels' voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include (i) voting on all matters voted on by stockholders; (ii) making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in its management, policies or operations; and, (iii) such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. If the stockholder who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information, including a list of beneficial holders of its ownership interests.
Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or by the Chairman of the Nevada Board may be found unsuitable. Any person found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of Starwood Hotels' debt or equity voting securities beyond such period or periods of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a gross misdemeanor. Starwood Hotels, ITT, the Desert Inn Companies or the Caesars Nevada Companies could be subject to disciplinary action if, without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission and after receipt of notice that a person is unsuitable to be an equity or debt security holder or to have any other relationship with Starwood Hotels, ITT, the Sheraton Desert Inn Companies or the Caesars Nevada Companies, any of such entities either (i) pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; (ii) recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; (iii) pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; (iv) makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction; or, (v) fails to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of such securities for cash at fair market value.
Regulations of the Nevada Commission provide that control of a registered publicly traded corporation cannot be changed through merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets, management or consulting agreements, or any form of takeover without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Persons seeking approval to control a registered publicly traded corporation must satisfy the Nevada Commission as to a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such corporation. The failure of a person to obtain such approval prior to assuming control over the registered publicly traded corporation may constitute grounds for finding such person unsuitable.
Regulations of the Nevada Commission also prohibit certain repurchases of securities by registered publicly traded corporations without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Transactions covered by these regulations are generally aimed at discouraging repurchases of securities at a premium over market price from certain holders of more that 3% of the outstanding securities of the registered publicly traded corporation. The regulations of the Nevada Commission also require prior approval for a "plan of recapitalization." Generally, a plan of recapitalization is a plan proposed by the management of a registered publicly traded corporation that contains recommended action in response to a proposed corporate acquisition opposed by management of the corporation if such acquisition would require the prior approval of the Nevada Commission.
Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or is under common control with such persons (collectively "Licensees"), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming operation outside the State of Nevada is required to deposit with the Nevada Control Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation by the Nevada Board of the Licensees' participation in such foreign gaming; the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease in the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Once such revolving fund is established, the Licensees may engage in gaming activities outside the State of Nevada without seeking the approval of the Nevada Commission provided (i) such activities are lawful in the jurisdiction where they are to be conducted; and, (ii) the Licensees comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Act. Licensees are subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if they (i) knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; (ii) fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations; (iii) engage in activities that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, (iv) employ a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability.
New Jersey Gaming Regulation. The New Jersey gaming laws and regulations primarily concern (a) the financial stability and character of casino operators, their employees, their security holders and others financially interested in casino operations; and, (b) the operating methods and the financial and accounting procedures used in connection with casino operations. The New Jersey gaming laws and regulations include, among other requirements, detailed provisions concerning (i) the type, manner and number of applications and licenses required to conduct casino gaming and ancillary activities; (ii) the licensing, regulation and curricula of gaming schools; (iii) the establishment of minimum standards of accounting and internal control, including the issuance and enforceability of casino credit; (iv) the manufacture, sale, distribution and possession of gaming equipment; (v) the rules of the games; (vi) the exclusion of undesirable persons; (vii) the use, regulation and reporting of junket activities; (viii) the possession, sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages; (ix) the regulation and licensing of suppliers to licensed casino operators; (x) the conduct of entertainment within licensed casino facilities; (xi) equal employment opportunity for employees of licensed casino operators, contractors for casino facilities and other entities; (xii) the payment of gross revenue taxes and similar fees and expenses; (xiii) the conduct of casino simulcasting; and, (xiv) the imposition and discharge of casino reinvestment development obligations. A number of these regulations require practices which are different from those in many casinos elsewhere and some of them result in casino operating costs greater than those in comparable facilities elsewhere. As a prerequisite to being licensed, a New Jersey hotel/ casino facility must meet certain facilities requirements concerning, among other things, the size and number of guest rooms.
BRC is licensed to operate Caesars Atlantic City by the New Jersey Commission, which has broad discretion with regard to the issuance, renewal, revocation or suspension of licenses. A New Jersey casino license is not transferable and must be renewed at designated periods of up to four years. Renewal is not automatic and involves an extensive review by the New Jersey DGE, a report by the New Jersey DGE to the New Jersey Commission, an independent review by the New Jersey Commission, and the affirmative vote of at least four of the five sitting Commissioners of the New Jersey Commission. The casino license to operate Caesars Atlantic City was renewed on November 30, 1996, and expires on November 30, 2000. As a prerequisite to BRC holding a license, ITT, Caesars and CNJ have been and are approved by the New Jersey Commission due to their corporate relationship to BRC. Starwood Hotels also is required to be approved by the New Jersey Commission, and has received interim casino authorization.
Except for certain banking and lending institutions exempted under the New Jersey Act, all financial backers, investors, mortgagees, debt holders, landlords under leases relating to Starwood Hotels' New Jersey hotel/casino facilities, all lenders to BRC, all officers and directors of BRC and all employees who work at Caesars Atlantic City have to be qualified, licensed, approved or registered by or with the New Jersey Commission. In addition, all contracts and leases entered into by BRC are subject to approval by the New Jersey Commission.
Any holder of the debt or equity securities of Starwood Hotels, Caesars or CNJ must be found qualified; the qualification requirement may be waived based on an express finding by the New Jersey Commission, with the consent of the Director of the New Jersey DGE, that the security holder either (a)(i) is not significantly involved in the activities of BRC; (ii) does not have the ability to control Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC; and (iii) does not have the ability to elect one or more members of the Board of Directors, the Board of Trustees, or the respective boards of directors of ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC; or (b) is an "institutional investor." The New Jersey Act presumes that any security holder that is not an "institutional investor" who owns or beneficially holds 5% or more of Starwood Hotels' equity securities has the ability to control Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC, unless such presumption is rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
The New Jersey Act and regulations define an "institutional investor" as (i) any retirement fund administered by a public agency for the exclusive benefit of Federal, state or local public employees; (ii) an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940; (iii) a collective investment trust organized by banks under Part Nine of the Rules of the Comptroller of the Currency; (iv) a closed end investment trust; (v) a chartered or licensed life insurance company or property and casualty insurance company; (vi) banking or other licensed or chartered lending institutions; (vii) an investment advisor registered under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940; or, (viii) such other persons as the New Jersey Commission may determine for reasons consistent with the policies of the New Jersey Act. In the absence of a prima facie showing by the Director of the DGE that there is any cause to believe that such institutional investor may be found unqualified, upon application and for good cause shown, an institutional investor holding either (a) less than 10% of Starwood Hotels' equity securities; or, (b) debt securities constituting less than 20% of Starwood Hotels' outstanding debt and less than 50% of the issue involved may be granted a waiver of qualification as to such holdings if (i) such securities are those of a publicly traded corporation; (ii) the institutional investor's holdings of such securities were purchased for investment purposes only; and, (iii) upon request by the New Jersey Commission, the institutional investor files with the New Jersey Commission a certified statement to the effect that the institutional investor has no intention of influencing or affecting the affairs of Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC; notwithstanding the foregoing, the institutional investor is permitted to vote on matters put to the vote of the outstanding security holders of Starwood Hotels.
If an institutional investor who has been granted a waiver subsequently determines to influence or affect Starwood Hotels' affairs, the institutional investor must provide to the New Jersey Commission not less than 30 days' prior notice of such intent and the institutional investor must file with the New Jersey Commission an application for qualification before taking any action that may influence or affect Starwood Hotels' affairs; notwithstanding the foregoing, the institutional investor is permitted to vote on matters put to the vote of Starwood Hotels' outstanding security holders. If an institutional investor changes its investment intent, or if
the New Jersey Commission finds reasonable cause to believe that the institutional investor may be found unqualified, no action other than divestiture shall be taken by that institutional investor until there has been compliance with the interim casino authorization provisions of the New Jersey Act, including the execution of a trust agreement. Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ and BRC are required to immediately notify the New Jersey Commission and the New Jersey DGE of any information about, or action of an institutional investor holding Starwood Hotels' equity or debt securities where such information or action may impact on the eligibility of such institutional investor for a waiver. If the New Jersey Commission finds an institutional investor unqualified or if the New Jersey Commission finds that, by reason of the extent or nature of its holdings, an institutional investor is in the position to exercise a substantial impact on the controlling interests of BRC so that qualification of the institutional investor is necessary to protect the public interest, the New Jersey Act vests in the New Jersey Commission the power to take all necessary action to protect the public interest, including the power to require that the institutional investor submit to qualification and become qualified under the New Jersey Act.
Any holder of Starwood Hotels' debt or equity securities, including an institutional investor, who is required to be found qualified by the New Jersey Commission must submit an application for qualification within 30 days after being ordered to do so or divest all security holdings within 120 days after the New Jersey Commission determines such qualification is required. The application for qualification must include a trust agreement by which the security holder places its interest in Starwood Hotels' securities in trust with a trustee qualified by the New Jersey Commission. If the security holder is ultimately found qualified, the trust agreement is terminated. In connection with the ITT Merger, Starwood Hotels petitioned for and, on January 28, 1998 received, interim casino authorization under the provisions of the New Jersey Act, including the execution of a trust agreement. Starwood Hotels has filed an application for plenary qualification, which, pursuant to the New Jersey Act, the New Jersey Commission will act upon within nine months from the date interim casino authorization was granted.
If the security holder is not found qualified or withdraws its application for qualification, the trustee will be empowered with all rights of ownership pertaining to such security holder's securities, including all voting rights and the power to sell the securities; in any event, the unqualified security holder will not be entitled to receive in exchange for its securities an amount in excess of the lower of (i) the actual cost the security holder incurred in acquiring the securities; or, (ii) the value of such securities, calculated as if the investment had been made on the date the trust became operative. If the security holder is not found qualified, it is unlawful for the security holder to (i) receive any dividends or interest on such securities; (ii) exercise, directly or through any trustee or nominee, any right conferred by such securities; or, (iii) receive any remuneration in any form from Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC for services rendered or otherwise.
Each officer, director, lender and certain other persons of Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars and CNJ must be found qualified unless the New Jersey Commission, with the consent of the Director of the New Jersey Commission, with the consent of the Director of the New Jersey DGE, finds that such officer, director, lender or other person is not significantly involved in the affairs of BRC and is thus waived from qualification. New Jersey law requires that an officer or director of Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars or CNJ must apply for temporary qualification at least 30 days before assuming any duties.
The New Jersey Act requires that each of Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ and BRC maintain financial stability and capability. For purposes of these requirements, the New Jersey Commission has adopted regulations defining "financial stability" and has set forth certain standards for determining compliance with the financial stability regulations. Under the regulations of the New Jersey Commission, "financial stability" has been defined as (i) the ability to assure the financial integrity of casino operations by the maintenance of a casino bankroll or equivalent provisions adequate to pay winning wagers to casino patrons when due; (ii) the ability to meet ongoing operating expenses which are essential to the maintenance of continuous and stable casino operations; (iii) the ability to pay, as and when due, all local, state and Federal taxes and any and all fees imposed by the New Jersey Act; (iv) the ability to make necessary capital and maintenance expenditures in a timely manner which are adequate to insure maintenance of a superior first class facility of exceptional quality as required by the New Jersey Act; and, (v) the ability to pay, exchange, refinance or extend debts, including long-term and short-term principal and interest and capital lease obligations, which will mature or
otherwise come due and payable during either the license term or within 12 months after the end of the license term or to otherwise manage such debts and any default with respect to the debts. The New Jersey Commission regulations provide that the financial stability standards concerning casino bankroll, operating expenses and capital and maintenance expenditures are met if the following is shown by clear and convincing evidence: (i) casino bankroll -- the maintenance, on a daily basis, of a casino bankroll at least equal to the average daily casino bankroll, calculated on a monthly basis, for the corresponding month in the previous year; (ii) operating expenses -- the demonstration of the ability to achieve positive gross operating profit measured on an annual basis; and, (iii) capital and maintenance expenditures -- the demonstration that its capital and maintenance expenditures over the five-year period, which includes the previous 36 calendar months and the upcoming license period, average at least 5% of net revenue per annum. Starwood Hotels believes that, at current operating levels, BRC will have no difficulty in complying with these requirements. The New Jersey Commission has the authority to restrict or prohibit the transfer of cash or the assumption of liabilities by BRC if such action will adversely impact the financial stability of BRC and the prior approval of the New Jersey Commission is required to incur indebtedness and guarantees of affiliated indebtedness by BRC involving amounts greater than $25 million.
If it were determined that New Jersey gaming laws were violated by BRC, BRC could be subject to fines or its casino license could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked. In addition, if a security holder of Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC is found disqualified but does not dispose of the securities, the New Jersey Commission is authorized to take any necessary action to protect the public interest, including the suspension or revocation of the casino license. The New Jersey Commission, however, will not take any action against Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC in connection with a disqualified holder if the New Jersey Commission finds that (i) Starwood Hotels has provided in its corporate and trust charters that Starwood Hotels' securities are held subject to the condition that, if a holder is found to be disqualified by the New Jersey Commission pursuant to the provisions of the New Jersey Act, such holder shall dispose of its interest in Starwood Hotels; (ii) Starwood Hotels has made a good faith effort, including the prosecution of all legal remedies, to comply with any order of the New Jersey Commission requiring the divestiture of the interest held by the disqualified holder; and, (iii) such disqualified holder does not have the ability to control Starwood Hotels, ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC or to elect one or more members of the Board of Directors, the Board of Trustees or the respective boards of directors of ITT, Caesars, CNJ or BRC. If BRC's license is revoked, not renewed or suspended for a period in excess of 120 days, the New Jersey Commission is empowered to appoint a conservator to operate, and to dispose of, BRC's casino/hotel facilities. If a conservator operates the casino/hotel facilities, payments to shareholders would be limited to a "fair return" on their investment, with any excess going to the State of New Jersey. If a conservator is appointed, the conservator's charges and expenses become a lien against the property which has priority over all prior and subsequent liens. Any suspension or revocation of the licenses or approvals, or the appointment of a conservator would have a material adverse effect on BRC.
Mississippi Gaming Regulation. Gaming in Mississippi can be legally conducted only on vessels of a certain minimum size either in navigable waters of counties bordering the Mississippi River or in the waters of the State of Mississippi which lie adjacent to the coastline of the three counties bordering the Gulf of Mexico. STC possesses a license for the ownership and operation of The Sheraton Casino & Hotel in Robinsonville, Tunica County, Mississippi issued by the Mississippi Commission pursuant to the Mississippi Act. The Mississippi Act does not restrict the amount or percentage of space on a vessel that may be utilized for casino gaming; the Mississippi Act also does not limit the number of licenses that the Mississippi Commission can grant for a particular area.
Starwood Hotels, ITT and STC are required to submit detailed financial, operating and other reports to the Mississippi Commission. Substantially all loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions entered into by Starwood Hotels, ITT or by STC must be reported to or approved by the Mississippi Commission. Starwood Hotels, ITT and STC are also required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Mississippi Commission and to furnish any other information which the Mississippi Commission may require.
Each of the directors, officers and certain key employees of Starwood Hotels, ITT and STC who are actively and directly engaged in the administration or supervision of casino gaming in Mississippi, or who have any other significant involvement with the activities of STC, must be found suitable therefor and may be required to be licensed by the Mississippi Commission. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require the submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. An application for licensing may be denied for any cause deemed reasonable by the Mississippi Commission. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Mississippi Commission. In addition to its authority to deny an application for a license, the Mississippi Commission has the authority to disapprove a change in corporate position. If the Mississippi Commission finds a director, officer or key employee of Starwood Hotels, ITT or STC unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with Starwood Hotels, ITT or STC, such entity is required to suspend, dismiss and sever all relationships with such person. Starwood Hotels, ITT and STC have similar obligations with regard to any person who fails or refuses to file appropriate applications. Each gaming employee must obtain a work permit; the Mississippi Commission may refuse to issue a work permit to a gaming employee (i) if the employee has committed larceny, embezzlement or any other crime of moral turpitude or knowingly violated the Mississippi Act or the regulations of the Mississippi Commission; or (ii) for any other reasonable cause.
Mississippi gaming licenses are not transferable and must be renewed periodically. The Mississippi Commission is empowered to deny, limit, condition, revoke and/or suspend any license, finding of suitability or registration, and to fine any person as it deems reasonable and in the public interest, subject to the due process considerations of notice and an opportunity for a hearing. The Mississippi Commission may fine any licensee or other person that is subject to the Mississippi Act up to $100,000 for each violation of the Mississippi Act that is the subject of an initial complaint and up to $250,000 for each violation of the Mississippi Act that is the subject of any subsequent complaint.
License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of casino gaming involved, are payable to the State of Mississippi and to the counties and cities in which gaming operations are located. Generally, these fees and taxes are based on a percentage of the gross gaming revenues received by the casino operation, the number of slot machines operated by such casino, or the number of table games operated by such casino. Moreover, several local governments have been authorized to impose either additional gross fees on adjusted gross gaming revenues or, alternatively, per person boarding fees and annual license fees based on the number of gaming devices aboard the vessel. License fees paid to the State of Mississippi are allowed as a credit against Mississippi state income taxes.
In all other material respects, casino gaming regulation in Mississippi is similar to the regulation of casino gaming in Nevada and New Jersey.
Ontario Gaming Regulation. Windsor Casino Limited ("WCL"), which is half-owned by Caesars and which operates the casino in Windsor, Ontario, Canada, is required to comply with licensing requirements similar to Nevada and New Jersey and is also subject to operational regulation by the Province of Ontario.
Pursuant to the Ontario Act, the Registrar of the Ontario Commission must approve any change in the directors or officers of WCL. The Ontario Act also provides that the Ontario Commission may require the submission of certain disclosures and informational material from any person who has an interest in WCL. Starwood Hotels will submit in a timely manner to the Registrar the required disclosures and informational material.
Under the Ontario Act, no person may provide goods or services for a casino or other business operated by, on behalf of or under contract with the Ontario Casino Corporation unless, among other things, that person is registered as a supplier under the Ontario Act. The Registrar has the power, subject to the Ontario Act, to grant, renew, suspend or revoke registrations. The Registrar is entitled to make such inquiries and conduct such investigations as are necessary to determine that applicants for registration meet the requirements of the Ontario Act and to require information or material from any person who has an interest in an applicant for registration as a registrant. The criteria to be considered in connection with registration under the Ontario Act include financial responsibility, integrity, honesty and the public interest. The Registrar may, at any time,
subject to the provisions of the Ontario Act, revoke, suspend or refuse to renew WCL's registration under the Ontario Act.
Nova Scotia Gaming Regulation. Sheraton Casino Nova Scotia ("SCNS"), the subsidiary of ITT that owns and operates the casino in the City of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and operates the casino in the City of Sydney, Nova Scotia, is required to comply with licensing requirements similar to the Province of Ontario and is also subject to operational regulation by the Province of Nova Scotia.
Under the Nova Scotia Act, the Director of Registration of the Nova Scotia Commission must be notified, within 15 days, of any change in the officers or directors of SCNS. SCNS is also required to file a disclosure form with the Director of Registration within 15 days of (i) a person acquiring a beneficial interest in the business of SCNS; (ii) a person exercising control, either directly or indirectly, over the business of SCNS; or (iii) a person providing financing, either directly or indirectly, to the business of SCNS. The Nova Scotia Act also provides that the Director of Registration may require information or material from SCNS or any person who has an interest in SCNS. Starwood Hotels has or will submit on a timely basis all required disclosure forms and informational materials as applicable.
Indiana Gaming Regulation. As a result of Caesars' planned riverboat casino development in Harrison County, Indiana, Starwood Hotels and ITT are subject to the gaming regulations in force in that state. Indiana currently imposes regulations on gaming companies similar to, and in Starwood Hotels' opinion, no more restrictive than, the gaming regulations in force in Nevada and New Jersey.
The riverboat also must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety and must hold a Certificate of Seaworthiness or must be approved by the American Bureau of Shipping for stabilization and flotation. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements establish design standards, set limits on the operation of the vessel and require individual licensing of all personnel involved with the operation of the vessel. Loss of the vessel's Certificate of Seaworthiness or the American Bureau of Shipping approval would preclude its use as a floating casino. The land-based facilities developed and used in connection with the riverboat are subject to local zoning and building codes.
Under the Indiana Act and regulations prior approval of the ITT Merger was not required and Starwood Hotels must file for approval of the ITT Merger within 45 days of the closing of the ITT Merger. Starwood Hotels will file all required applications in a timely manner.
Provisions of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation Related to Casino Gaming. The Articles of Incorporation provide that (i) all Starwood Hotels' securities are subject to redemption to the extent necessary to prevent the loss, or to secure the reinstatement, of any casino gaming license held by any of Starwood Hotels' subsidiaries in any jurisdiction within or without the United States; (ii) all Starwood Hotels' securities are held subject to the condition that if a holder is found by a gaming authority in any jurisdiction to be disqualified or unsuitable pursuant to any gaming law, such holder will be required to dispose of all such securities; failing such disposition, the Corporation may redeem the securities at the lesser of their market price or the disqualified holder's original purchase price; and (iii) it is unlawful for any such disqualified person to (a) receive payments of interest or dividends on any such securities; (b) exercise, directly or indirectly, any rights conferred by any such securities; or (c) receive any remuneration in any form, for services rendered or otherwise, from the subsidiary that holds the gaming license in the applicable jurisdiction.
ITEM 3.