Item 2. Properties
Oil and Gas Properties
Our oil and gas properties are primarily located along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast, in the Permian Basin of West Texas, in both state and federal waters of the Gulf of Mexico and in East Texas. The following table provides summary statistics about our properties as of December 31, 2002.
- -------- (1) Includes isolated property interests in California, Wyoming, Oregon, and Oklahoma. (2) In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. The average prices for natural gas and oil used in our estimate were $4.74 per MMBTU and $31.17 per BBL on December 31, 2002, respectively. (3) Approximate working interest would not be representative because the properties are so diverse.
Reserves and Production
Reserves
Our estimated net proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2002 were 38.2 MMBOE, representing a decrease of approximately 43% from December 31, 2001 levels. The changes in proved reserves are summarized on the table below:
Mission has not filed oil or gas reserve information with any foreign government or federal authority or agency that contain reserve information materially different than those presented herein.
In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are to some degree speculative, and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of speculation involved. Estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Mission's actual production, revenues, severance and excise taxes and development and
operating expenditures with respect to its reserves will vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material.
Estimates with respect to proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be substantial, in the estimated reserves.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the discounted future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate unless prices or costs subsequent to that date are contractually determined. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than prices or costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers, changes in governmental regulations or taxation and the impact of inflation on costs.
Production
The following table sets forth our production and reserve information as of and for the year ended December 31, 2002 by area.
- -------- (1) In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. The average prices for natural gas and oil used in our estimate were $4.74 per MMBTU and $31.17 per BBL on December 31, 2002, respectively.
Data relating to production volumes, average sales prices, average unit production costs and oil and gas reserve information appears in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which we own a working interest. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests that we own in the gross acres. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one. All of our developed and undeveloped acreage is domestic.
The following table sets forth information concerning our developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage as of December 31, 2002.
We believe that our title to oil and gas properties is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to exceptions which, in our opinion, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of the properties. Our properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
. royalties;
. overriding royalties;
. a variety of contractual obligations (including, in some cases, development obligations) arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles;
. back-ins and reversionary interests;
. liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing obligations to unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements;
. pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; and
. easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect oil and gas producing property.
To the extent that such burdens and obligations affect our rights to production revenues, they have been taken into account in calculating net revenue interests and in estimating the size and value of our proved reserves. We believe that the burdens and obligations affecting our properties are conventional in the industry for the kind of properties that we own.
See "Risk Factors" for a discussion of reserve estimates.
Productive Wells
Productive wells are defined as producing wells and wells capable of production. Gross wells, are the number of wells in which we own a working interest. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests that we own directly in gross wells. A "net well" is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one.
The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells in which we own interests as of December 31, 2002.
Drilling Activity
Our principal drilling activities during the last three fiscal years were focused on properties along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast, in the Gulf of Mexico, and in Oregon and the Permian Basin in New Mexico. Our development of the Charapa and Tiguino fields in Ecuador accounted for all international drilling activities.
The following tables set forth the results of drilling activity for the last three fiscal years:
Three domestic wells were in progress as of December 31, 2002.
Gas Plants
In late 2001, we sold our interests in the Snyder and Diamond M Gas Plants for gross proceeds of $11.5 million. The Point Pedernales Gas Plant, located in California, is operated by Nuevo Energy Company in conjunction with the Point Pedernales field from which the processed gas is produced. We no longer report our 19.7% interest in this plant separately, primarily because it does not process gas from third parties and therefore does not generate revenue apart from the related Point Pedernales field. The revenues and expenses of the plant are reported as NGL revenue and part of production expenses for the Point Pedernales field. The plant is included as part of our full cost pool for purposes of calculating depreciation. The Point Pedernales field, including this gas plant was sold in March 2003 to the operator. We paid them $1.8 million to assume the environmental, plugging and abandonment liabilities estimated to be between $3 million and $5 million.
Risk Factors
Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Strategy
Our success depends upon our ability to replace reserves.
Our future performance depends upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as those reserves are depleted. We therefore must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost.
Oil and gas prices fluctuate widely, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.
Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include:
. weather conditions in the United States;
. the condition of the United States economy;
. the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;
. domestic and foreign governmental regulation;
. political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere;
. the foreign supply of oil and gas;
. the price of foreign imports; and
. the availability of alternate fuel sources.
Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves, our borrowing capacity, our ability to obtain additional capital, and our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and require us to record ceiling test write-downs when prices decline.
Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties in connection with acquisitions and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on transaction values. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and exploitation, development and exploration projects. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production.
We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices.
We may not be able to market all or obtain favorable prices for the oil or gas we produce.
Our ability to market oil and gas from our wells depends upon numerous domestic and international factors beyond our control, including:
. the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and gas;
. the proximity of gas production to gas pipelines;
. the availability of capacity in such pipelines;
. the demand for oil and gas by utilities and other end users;
. the availability of alternate fuel sources;
. the effects of inclement weather;
. state, federal and international regulation of oil and gas production; and
. federal regulation of gas sold or transported in interstate commerce.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to market all of the oil or gas we produce or that we can obtain favorable prices for the oil and gas we produce.
You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because reserve information represents estimates.
This document contains estimates of our oil and gas reserves, and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our control and the control of reserve engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of:
. the available data;
. assumptions regarding future oil and gas prices and expenditures for future development and exploitation activities; and
. engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.
Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities and prices of oil and gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and estimates in this document. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. In calculating reserves on an oil equivalent basis, gas was converted to oil equivalent at the ratio of one BBL of oil to six MCF of gas. While this ratio approximates the energy equivalency of oil to gas on a BTU basis, it may not represent the relative prices received by us on the sale of our oil and gas production.
You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in this document and the information incorporated by reference is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any
changes in consumption by natural gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation may also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor.
Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs.
We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a "ceiling limit" which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a "ceiling test write-down." This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our stockholders' equity. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves.
We face strong competition from larger oil and gas companies that may negatively affect our ability to carry on operations.
The oil and gas business is highly competitive. Many competitors have substantially larger financial resources, staffs and facilities than we do. These larger competitors include independent oil and gas producers such as Apache Corporation, Burlington Resources, Inc., Anadarko Petroleum Inc., Ocean Energy, Inc. and Devon Energy Corporation. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include:
. the availability of funds and information relating to a property;
. the standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment; and
. the availability of alternate fuel sources and the intermediate transportation of oil and gas.
Risks Related to Financing Our Business
We may not be able to fund our planned capital expenditures.
We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and gas reserves. Our capital expenditures were $21.4 million during 2002, $72.2 million during 2001 and $88.4 million during 2000. We have budgeted total capital expenditures in 2003 of approximately $32.0 million, however, if commodity prices continue at the current level, the capital expenditure budget will increase. Our plan is to budget capital expenditures up to discretionary cash flows. Historically, we have financed these expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations, the issuance of bonds or bank credit facility borrowings, the issuance of our common stock, or the sale of oil and gas properties. Our current primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations, bank credit facility borrowings, and the sales of oil and gas properties. We believe that our working capital and operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet planned capital expenditures in 2003. If revenues or our borrowing base decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake our 2003 exploration and development program. We cannot assure you that additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations or oil and gas property sales will be available to meet these requirements.
We have a highly leveraged capital structure, which limits our financial flexibility.
We have a highly leveraged capital structure due to our outstanding 10 7/8% senior subordinated notes due 2007, which limits our financial flexibility. Our level of indebtedness has several important effects on our future operations, including:
. a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations, approximately $24.0 million annually, must be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes;
. covenants contained in our debt obligations require us to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets and may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business, including possible acquisition activities; and
. our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total indebtedness will be dependent upon future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our future performance will not be adversely affected by such economic conditions and financial, business and other factors.
Because of these issues, our new management team has undertaken a review of the various alternatives to restructure Mission and has retained the investment-banking firm of Petrie Parkman & Co. to assist in this evaluation. Among the alternatives being considered are
. a refinancing of the notes;
. a new credit facility;
. a merger with or an acquisition by another company;
. the sale of certain oil and gas properties;
. the acquisition by Mission of another company or assets;
. the addition of other secured and unsecured debt financings; and
. the issuance of equity securities or other debt securities for cash or properties or in exchange for the notes.
Some of these alternatives would require approval of our stockholders, and all of them will require the approval of other parties to the transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in completing any of these possible transactions.
Hedging production may limit potential gains from increases in commodity prices or result in losses.
We may, from time to time, reduce our exposure to the volatility of oil and gas prices by hedging a portion of our production. In a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the counter party to the hedge, the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we are required to pay the counter party this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, we are required to pay the difference regardless of whether we had sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging will also prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge.
Risks Relating to Our Ongoing Operations
The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.
Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel, including, but not limited to, Robert L. Cavnar, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Richard W. Piacenti, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, John L. Eells, our Senior Vice President--Exploration and Geoscience, and Joseph G. Nicknish, our Senior Vice President--Operations and Engineering. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our operations.
The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses.
Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as:
. unexpected drilling conditions, such as blowouts, cratering and explosions;
. uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids;
. equipment failures, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes or accidents; and
. pollution and other environmental risks.
These risks could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Moreover, a portion of our operations are offshore and therefore are subject to a variety of operating risks which occur in the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, to more extensive governmental regulation, including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage, and to interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental or other considerations.
Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.
Our operations could result in a liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or the loss of substantial portions of our properties in the event of certain environmental damages.
We may have claims asserted against us to plug and abandon wells and restore the surface.
In most instances, oil and gas lessees are required to plug and abandon wells that have no further utility and to restore the surface. We are often required to obtain bonds to secure these obligations. In instances where we purchase or sell oil and gas properties, the parties to the transaction routinely include an agreement as to who will be responsible for plugging and abandoning any wells on the property and for restoring the surface. In those cases, we may be required to obtain new bonds or may release old bonds regarding our plugging and abandonment exposure based on the terms of the purchase and sale agreement. However, if a subsequent owner or party to the purchase and sale agreement defaults on its obligations to plug and abandon a well or restore the
surface and otherwise fails to obtain a bond to secure the obligation, the landowner or in some cases the applicable state or federal regulatory authority, may assert that we are obligated to plug the well as a prior owner of the property. In other instances, we may receive a demand as a current owner of the property to plug and abandon certain wells in the field and to restore the surface although we are still actively developing the field. Mission has been notified of such claims from certain parties and landowners and from the State of Louisiana, and is vigorously defending these claims to avoid this liability. At this time, it is not possible to determine the amount of potential exposure that we may have for these claims. Although there can be no assurances, we do not presently believe these claims would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operations.
In 1993 and 1996 we entered into agreements with surety companies and, at that time, affiliated companies Torch and Nuevo Energy Company ("Nuevo") whereby the surety companies agreed to issue such bonds to Mission, Torch and/or Nuevo. As part of these agreements, Mission, Torch, and Nuevo agreed to be jointly and severally liable to the surety company for any liabilities arising under any bonds issued to Mission, Torch and/or Nuevo. The amount of bonds presently issued to Torch and Nuevo pursuant to these agreements is approximately $35.2 million. We have notified the sureties that we will not be responsible for any new bonds issued to Torch or Nuevo. However, the sureties are permitted under these agreements to seek reimbursement from us, as well as from Torch and Nuevo, if the surety makes any payments under the bonds previously issued to Torch and Nuevo.
Compliance with environmental and other government regulations is costly and could negatively impact production.
Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. For a discussion of material regulations applicable to us, see "Regulation--Federal Regulations," "--State Regulations," and "--Environmental Regulations." These laws and regulations:
. require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences;
. restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities;
. limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas;
. require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and
. impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations.
The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulations could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and gas industry in general.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on us.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock Outstanding
Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment.
The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other energy companies, has been and may be highly volatile. Factors such as
announcements concerning changes in prices of oil and natural gas, the success of our exploration and development drilling program, the availability of capital, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations and financial results, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock.
The lack of trading volume and the possible delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market for our common stock.
Historically, there has been limited trading volume for our common stock. On January 28, 2003, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination indicating that Mission had failed to comply with Nasdaq's minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share for continued listing of our common stock on The Nasdaq National Market, and that, as a result, our common stock was subject to delisting from The Nasdaq National Market at the opening of business on February 6, 2003. We requested an oral hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to review the Nasdaq Staff Determination. Prior to the hearing date, proposed changes to Nasdaq's minimum bid price requirement were approved, and Mission was granted an additional 90 days, or until April 28, 2003, to come into compliance with such requirement. Because of this change, Nasdaq postponed the hearing pending a determination by Nasdaq regarding Mission's compliance with the minimum bid price requirement after April 28, 2003. In the event Mission is unable to satisfy the bid price requirement by April 28, 2003, the hearing process will re-commence. We cannot assure you that Mission will be in compliance with the amended minimum bid price requirement by April 28, 2003 or that a Nasdaq Listings Qualification Panel will grant Mission's request for continued listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market System.
We are reviewing all options available to us to return to compliance with Nasdaq's continued listing requirements. The delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq may result in a reduction in some or all of the following, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our investors:
. the market price of our common stock;
. the liquidity of our common stock;
. the number of institutional investors that will be allowed by their charter to invest or consider investing in our common stock;
. the number of investors in general that will consider investing in our common stock;
. the number of market makers in our common stock;
. the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock;
. the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and
. our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations.
We do not pay dividends.
We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and have no intention to do so in the near future. The restrictions on our present or future ability to pay dividends are included in the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and in certain restrictive provisions in the indentures executed in connection with our 10 7/8% senior subordinated notes due 2007. In addition, our bank credit facility contains provisions that may have the effect of limiting or prohibiting the payment of dividends.
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment.
Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and shareholders rights plan and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may encourage persons considering unsolicited tender
offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as the board may determine. Additional provisions include restrictions on business combinations and on stockholder action by written consent. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other and with the shareholder rights plan described below, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock.
In September 1997, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, pursuant to which uncertificated stock purchase rights were distributed to our stockholders at a rate of one right for each share of common stock held of record as of September 26, 1997. The rights plan is designed to enhance the board's ability to prevent an acquirer from depriving stockholders of the long-term value of their investment and to protect stockholders against attempts to acquire us by means of unfair or abusive takeover tactics. However, the existence of the rights plan may impede a takeover not supported by our board, including a takeover that may be desired by a majority of our stockholders or involving a premium over the prevailing stock price.
Item 3.