ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - -------------------
Reserves - --------
The Company holds interests in oil and gas properties, all of which are located in the United States. The Company's principal developed properties are located in Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, offshore California and the Gulf of Mexico. Estimated net proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1998 decreased approximately 20% from December 31, 1997. This decrease was primarily caused by lower oil prices which resulted in decreases in the economic life of properties, most notably Waddell Ranch and Point Pedernales. The Company has not filed oil or gas reserve information with any foreign government or Federal authority or agency.
The following table sets forth certain information, as of December 31, 1998, which relates to fields which hold approximately 79% of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves:
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices and future operating costs and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are to some degree speculative, and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of speculation involved. Estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. The Company's actual production, revenues, severance and excise taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to its reserves will vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material.
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
Estimates with respect to proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history.
Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be substantial, in the estimated reserves.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the estimated discounted future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate unless such prices or costs are contractually determined at such date. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers, changes in governmental regulations or taxation and the impact of inflation on costs.
Acreage - -------
The following table sets forth the acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas properties in which the Company held an interest as of December 31, 1998. Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in the gross acres expressed as a whole number and percentages thereof. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one.
Bellwether believes that the title to its oil and gas properties is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in the opinion of the Company, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties. The Company's properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following: 1) royalties and other burdens and obligations, express or implied, under oil and gas leases; 2) overriding royalties and other burdens created by the Company or its predecessors in title; 3) a variety of contractual obligations (including, in some cases, development obligations) arising under operating agreements,
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles; 4) back-ins and reversionary interests arising under purchase agreements and leasehold assignments; 5) liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing obligations to unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements; 6) pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; and 7) easements, restrictions, rights-of- way and other matters that commonly affect oil and gas producing property. To the extent that such burdens and obligations affect the Company's rights to production revenues, they have been taken into account in calculating the Company's net revenue interests and in estimating the size and value of the Company's reserves. Bellwether believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the Company's properties are conventional in the industry for properties of the kind owned by the Company.
Productive Wells - ----------------
The following table sets forth Bellwether's gross and net interests in productive oil and gas wells as of December 31, 1998. Productive wells are defined as producing wells and wells capable of production.
Production - ----------
The Company's principal production volumes during the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 were from the states of Louisiana, Texas and Alabama, from federal waters in offshore California and from the Gulf of Mexico in federal and state waters.
Data relating to production volumes, average sales prices, average unit production costs and oil and gas reserve information appear in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Supplemental Information.
Drilling Activity and Present Activities - ----------------------------------------
During the last three fiscal years and the transition period ended December 31, 1997, the Company's principal drilling activities occurred in the continental United States and offshore Texas, Louisiana and California in federal and state waters.
The following table sets forth the results of drilling activity for the last three fiscal years and the transition period. Gross wells, as it applies to wells in the following tables, refers to the number of wells in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. A "net well" is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and percentages thereof.
The Company had 5 wells in process as of December 31, 1998.
Gas Plant and Gas Gathering Facilities - --------------------------------------
As of December 31, 1998 the Company owned iterests in the following gas plants:
(1) The Company has a 36.72% interest in the operations of the former Diamond M- Sharon Ridge Gas Plant. This plant was dismantled in December 1993, and the gas is being processed by Snyder Gas Plant pursuant to a processing agreement.
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
Risk Factors - ------------
Historically Low Oil Prices ---------------------------
Oil prices were lower in 1998 than in previous years, and hit historic lows during the first quarter of 1999. Continued low oil prices will continue to affect the Company adversely.
Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices and Markets --------------------------------------------
Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include: 1) weather conditions in the United States, 2) the condition of the United States economy, 3) the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, 4) governmental regulation, 5) political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, 6) the foreign supply of oil and gas, 7) the price of foreign imports and 8) the availability of alternate fuel sources. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have an adverse effect on the Company's carrying value of its proved reserves, its borrowing capacity, its ability to obtain additional capital, and its revenues, profitability and cash flows.
Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties in connection with acquisitions and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and exploitation, development and exploration projects.
The availability of a ready market for the Company's oil and natural gas production also depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. Wells may temporarily be shut-in for lack of a market or due to inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity.
Ability to Replace Reserves ---------------------------
The Company's future performance depends upon its ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The proved reserves of Bellwether will generally decline as reserves are depleted. The Company therefore must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. Because the Company's reserves are characterized by relatively rapid decline rates, without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, the Company's revenues will decline rapidly. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost.
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
Acquisition Risks -----------------
The Company's rapid growth in recent years has been attributable in significant part to acquisitions of oil and gas properties. The Company expects to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms management considers favorable to the Company. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified in the future, or that the Company will be able to finance such acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, the Company competes against other companies for acquisitions, and there can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in the acquisition of any material property interests. Further, there can be no assurances that any future acquisitions made by the Company will be integrated successfully into the Company's operations or will achieve desired profitability objectives.
The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of: 1) recoverable reserves, 2) exploration and exploitation potential, 3) future oil and natural gas prices, 4) operating costs, 5) potential environmental and other liabilities and 6) other factors beyond the Company's control. In connection with such an assessment, the Company performs a review of the properties that it believes to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain, and such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit the Company to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In addition, sellers of properties may be unwilling or financially unable to indemnify the Company for known or unknown liabilities at the time of an acquisition.
Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of the operations and business of the Company depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geologic characteristics or geographic location than existing properties. While the Company's operations are focused in Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, offshore California and the Gulf of Mexico, there is no assurance that the Company will not pursue acquisitions or properties located in other geographic areas.
In connection with the Partnership Transactions, Bellwether assumed or otherwise became liable for all obligations with respect to operations of the properties acquired in such transactions, including environmental and operational liabilities, unknown liabilities, and liabilities arising prior to the closing date.
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
Drilling Risks --------------
Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by the Company will be productive or that the Company will recover all or any portion of its investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and cost overruns are common. The Company's drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including: 1) title problems, 2) weather conditions, 3) compliance with governmental requirements and 4) shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services.
Substantial Capital Requirements --------------------------------
The Company makes, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and gas reserves. Historically, the Company has financed these expenditures primarily with sale of senior subordinated notes, proceeds from bank borrowings, sales of its Common Stock and cash flow from operations. The Company believes that it will have sufficient cash flows provided by operating activities, the proceeds of equity offerings and borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility to fund planned capital expenditures. If revenues or the Company's borrowing base decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, the Company may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations will be available to meet these requirements.
Significant Leverage and Debt Service -------------------------------------
The Company's level of indebtedness has several important effects on its future operations, including: 1) a substantial portion of the Company's cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, 2) covenants contained in the Company's debt obligations require the Company to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions limit its ability to borrow additional funds or to dispose of assets and may affect the Company's flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business, including possible acquisition activities and 3) the Company's ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired. The Company's ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will be dependent upon the Company's future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and to financial,
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
business and other factors affecting the operations of the Company, many of which are beyond its control. There can be no assurance that the Company's future performance will not be adversely affected by such economic conditions and financial, business and other factors.
Administrative Services Agreement; Reliance on Torch ----------------------------------------------------
The Company currently has seventeen employees. The Company is party to an administrative services agreement ("Administrative Services Agreement") with Torch, pursuant to which Torch performs certain administrative functions for the Company, including financial, accounting, legal and technical support. The Company believes that its relationship with Torch provides the Company with access to professional, technical and administrative personnel not otherwise available to a company of its size. Bellwether believes that if the Administrative Services Agreement were terminated Bellwether could, over time, hire experienced personnel and acquire the accounting and reporting systems and other assets necessary to replace Torch. However, the unanticipated termination of the Administrative Services Agreement could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. The Administrative Services Agreement may be terminated by Bellwether upon one year's prior notice and may not be terminated by Torch prior to December 31, 1999. The Company intends to terminate the current Administrative Services Agreement on December 31, 1999, and is currently in negotiations with Torch to finalize agreements which would take the place of the existing Administrative Services Agreement.
Conflicts of Interest ---------------------
Torch also renders administrative services to other independent oil and gas companies and may manage or render management or administrative services for other energy companies in the future. These services may include the review and recommendation of potential acquisitions. It is possible that conflicts may occur between Bellwether and these other companies in connection with possible acquisitions or otherwise in connection with the services rendered by Torch. Although the Administrative Services Agreement provides for procedures to reconcile conflicts of interest between these other companies and the Company, no assurances can be made that such procedures will fully protect the Company from losses which may occur if a conflict between the Company and these other companies arises.
Estimates of Oil and Gas Reserves ---------------------------------
This document contains estimates of oil and gas reserves owned by the Company, and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond the control of the Company and the reserve engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
reserves, is a function of: 1) the available data, 2) assumptions regarding future oil and gas prices and expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and 3) of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities and prices of oil and gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and estimates set forth herein. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. In calculating reserves on a gas equivalent basis, oil was converted to gas equivalent at the ratio of one Bbl of oil to six Mcf of gas. While this ratio approximates the energy equivalency of oil to gas on a Btu basis, it may not represent the relative prices received by the Company on the sale of its oil and gas production.
The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to estimated proved reserves set forth herein were prepared in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves.
Hedging of Production ---------------------
The Company may, from time to time, reduce its exposure to the volatility of oil and gas prices by hedging a portion of its production. In a typical hedge transaction, the Company will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge, the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, the Company is required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, the Company is required to pay the difference regardless of whether the Company has sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require the Company to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging will also prevent the Company from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge.
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
Operating Hazards, Offshore Operations and Uninsured Risks ----------------------------------------------------------
Bellwether's operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as: 1) blowouts, 2) cratering, 3) explosions, 4) uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, 5) fires, 6) pollution, 7) earthquakes and 8) environmental risks. These risks could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Moreover, a portion of the Company's operations are offshore and therefore are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, to more extensive governmental regulation, including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage, and to interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental or other considerations.
The Company's operations could result in liability for: 1) personal injuries, 2) property damage, 3) oil spills, 4) discharge of hazardous materials, 5) remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages.
Environmental and Other Regulation ----------------------------------
The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations require: 1) the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, 2) restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, 3) limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and 4) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from the Company's operations. Moreover, the recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have
BELLWETHER EXPLORATION COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES -----------------------------------------------
a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on the Company. Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
Competition -----------
The Company operates in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, development and production. The Company's competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and substantial independent energy companies, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than the Company.
ITEM 3.