Item 2. Properties
Domestic Properties
Mission's domestic exploration, development and acquisition activities are focused in three core areas: along the Texas/Louisiana Gulf Coast, in the Permian Basin, and in the Gulf of Mexico. Mission primarily owns working interests in domestic wells. The owner of a working interest is required to pay its share of operating costs whereas the owner of royalty interests receives a share of revenues.
Reserve life is a measure of the productive life of an oil and gas property or a group of oil and gas properties, expressed in years. The reserve life index equals the estimated net proved reserves attributable to a property or group of properties divided by production from the property or group of properties for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date as of which the proved reserves were estimated.
The discounted present value is the present value, discounted at 10%, of the pre-tax future net cash flows attributable to estimated net proved reserves. This amount is calculated assuming the oil and gas production attributable to the proved reserves estimated in the independent engineer's reserve report using year end prices for production and assuming costs will remain constant. The assumed costs are subtracted from the assumed revenues, resulting in a stream of pre-tax future net cash flows.
Gulf Coast--The fields in this area are located onshore in Louisiana and Texas. These fields produce gas as the primary product. Mission owns an interest in approximately 242 economically producing wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 53% of the discounted present value. Mission's average reserve life is 12 years. Mission's average working interest in the wells is approximately 35 percent.
Permian Basin--The fields in this area are located in West Texas and New Mexico. The West Texas fields produce oil and the New Mexico fields produce gas as the primary product. Mission owns an interest in approximately 3,223 economically producing wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 29% of the discounted present value. Mission's average reserve life is 13 years. Mission's average working interest in the wells is approximately 11 percent.
Gulf of Mexico--The fields in this area are located in state and federal waters offshore Louisiana and Texas. These fields produce gas as the primary product. Mission owns an interest in approximately 92 economically producing wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 8% of the discounted present value. Mission's average reserve life is 3 years. Mission's average working interest in the wells is approximately 20 percent.
Other--Non-core fields are located primarily in California, Oregon, Oklahoma, East Texas and Wyoming. Mission owns an interest in approximately 375 economically producing wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 10% of the discounted present value.
International Properties
Ecuador--Mission operated two concessions in Ecuador, each of which contained one producing field. The working interest in the Charapa field was 90% and the working interest in the Tiguino field was 70%. Oil was the only sales product from both fields. Both fields were subject to contracts with the Ecuador government, under which Mission had a share of production above specified base levels. In June 2001 the interests in Ecuador properties were sold; therefore, no Ecuadorian reserves are reported as of December 31, 2001.
Reserves
Estimated net proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2001 increased approximately 113% from December 31, 2000. Reserves of approximately 43 MMBOE were added as a result of the May 2001 merger, and approximately 8 MMBOE were added as a result of property acquisitions. Properties, with proved reserves totaling 12 MMBOE, were sold during 2001. The Company has not filed oil or gas reserve information with any foreign government or federal authority or agency that contain reserves materially different than those presented herein.
The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2001 for Mission's core areas (dollars in thousands).
- -------- (1) Net production includes operations from the fields acquired from Bargo beginning May 16, 2001. (2) Properties located in East Texas are included in this category. (3) Future cash flows discounted at 10 percent.
In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are to some degree speculative, and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of speculation involved. Estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Mission's actual production, revenues, severance and excise taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to its reserves will vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material.
Estimates with respect to proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be substantial, in the estimated reserves.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the estimated discounted future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate unless prices or costs subsequent to that date are contractually determined. Additionally, the impact of financial derivatives is not considered. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than prices or costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers, changes in governmental regulations or taxation and the impact of inflation on costs.
Acreage
The following table sets forth the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which Mission held an interest as of December 31, 2001. Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which Mission owns a working interest. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests Mission owns in the gross acres. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one. All of Mission's developed and undeveloped acreage is domestic.
Mission believes title to its oil and gas properties is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in its opinion, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties. Mission's properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following:
. royalties;
. overriding royalties;
. a variety of contractual obligations (including, in some cases, development obligations) arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles;
. back-ins and reversionary interests;
. liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing obligations to unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements;
. pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; and
. easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect oil and gas producing property.
To the extent that such burdens and obligations affect Mission's rights to production revenues, they have been taken into account in calculating net revenue interests and in estimating the size and value of Mission's reserves. Mission believes that the burdens and obligations affecting its properties are conventional in the industry for properties of the kind owned by Mission.
See "Risk Factors" for a discussion of estimates of oil and gas reserves.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth Mission 's gross and net interests in productive oil and gas wells as of December 31, 2001. Productive wells are defined as producing wells and wells capable of production. Gross wells, as it applies to wells in the following tables, refer to the number of wells in which Mission owned a working interest. A "net well" is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by Mission in gross wells.
Production
Mission's principal production volumes during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 were from the states of Louisiana, Texas, and New Mexico, from federal waters offshore California and from federal and state waters in the Gulf of Mexico. Because they were sold June 1, 2001, the Charapa and Tiguino fields in Ecuador accounted for only about 2.8 % of total 2001 oil production.
Data relating to production volumes, average sales prices, average unit production costs and oil and gas reserve information appears in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Supplemental Information.
Drilling Activity and Present Activities
During the last three fiscal years the Company's principal domestic drilling activities occurred along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast, in the Gulf of Mexico, Oregon and New Mexico. Development of the Charapa and Tiguino fields in Ecuador accounted for all international activities.
The following tables set forth the results of drilling activity for the last three fiscal years.
Exploratory Wells
Six domestic wells were in progress as of December 31, 2001.
Gas Plants
In late 2001, Mission sold its interests in the Snyder and Diamond M Gas Plants for gross proceeds of $11.5 million. The Point Pedernales Gas Plant, located in California, is operated by Nuevo Energy Company in conjunction with the Point Pedernales field from which the processed gas is produced. Mission's 19.7% interest in this plant is no longer reported separately, primarily because it does not process gas from third parties and therefore does not generate revenue apart from the related Point Pedernales field. The revenues and expenses of the plant are reported as NGL revenue and part of production expenses for the Point Pedernales field.
Risk Factors
Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices and Markets
Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond Mission's control. These factors include:
. weather conditions in the United States,
. the condition of the United States economy,
. the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
. governmental regulation,
. political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere,
. the foreign supply of oil and gas,
. the price of foreign imports, and
. the availability of alternate fuel sources.
Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have an adverse effect on the carrying value of Mission's proved reserves, its borrowing capacity, its ability to obtain additional capital, and its revenues, profitability and cash flows.
Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties in connection with acquisitions and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on transaction values. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and exploitation, development and exploration projects.
The availability of a ready market for oil and natural gas production also depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. Wells may temporarily be shut-in for lack of a market or due to inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity.
Ability to Replace Reserves
Mission's future performance depends upon its ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The proved reserves of Mission will generally decline as those reserves are depleted. Mission therefore must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. No assurances can be given that Mission will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost.
Acquisition Risks
The rapid growth of Mission and its predecessor companies in recent years has been attributable in significant part to domestic acquisitions of oil and gas properties. Mission expects to continue to evaluate and,
where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms management considers favorable to Mission. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified in the future, or that Mission will be able to finance such acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, Mission competes against other companies for acquisitions, and there can be no assurances that it will be successful in the acquisition of any material property interests. Further, there can be no assurances that any future acquisitions made by Mission will be integrated successfully into its operations or will achieve desired profitability objectives.
The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of:
. recoverable reserves,
. future production rates,
. exploration and exploitation potential and timing,
. future oil and natural gas prices,
. operating costs,
. infrastructure requirements,
. potential environmental and other liabilities and
. other factors beyond our control.
In connection with such an assessment, Mission will perform a review of the properties that it believes to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain, and such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit Mission to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In addition, sellers of properties may be unwilling or financially unable to indemnify Mission for known or unknown liabilities at the time of an acquisition.
Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of the operations and business of Mission depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geologic characteristics and geographic location from existing properties. While Mission's operations are focused in Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico and the Gulf of Mexico, there is no assurance that Mission will not pursue acquisitions or properties located in other geographic areas.
Drilling Risks
Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by Mission will be productive or that Mission will recover all or any portion of its investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and cost overruns are common. Mission's drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond its control, including:
. title problems,
. weather conditions,
. compliance with governmental requirements,
. shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services, and
. drilling and operations difficulties.
Substantial Capital Requirements
Mission makes, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and gas reserves. Historically, Mission has financed these expenditures primarily with the sale of senior subordinated notes, proceeds from bank borrowings, sales of its common stock and cash flow from operations. We believe that Mission will have sufficient cash flow provided by operating activities, the proceeds of equity and debt offerings and borrowings under bank debt to fund planned capital expenditures. If revenues or Mission's borrowing base decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, Mission may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations will be available to meet these requirements.
Significant Leverage and Debt Service
Mission's level of indebtedness has several important effects on its future operations, including:
. a substantial portion of Mission's cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes,
. covenants contained in Mission's debt obligations require Mission to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions limit its ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets and may affect Mission's flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business, including possible acquisition activities, and
. Mission's ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired.
Mission's ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will be dependent upon future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting the operations of Mission, many of which are beyond its control. There can be no assurance that Mission's future performance will not be adversely affected by such economic conditions and financial, business and other factors.
Outsourcing Agreement
Mission currently has 27 employees. Mission is party to a Master Service Agreement ("MSA") dated October 1, 1999, and four specific contracts which required Torch and its subsidiaries to administer certain of Mission's activities including oil and gas marketing, operation of oil and gas properties, accounting, risk management, legal and information technology. At the end of 2001 the Company gave notice to Torch that the agreements covering accounting, risk management, legal, information technology and operation of oil and gas properties would be cancelled or allowed to expire in 2002. We believe that the experienced professional, technical and administrative personnel and the access to suitable accounting and reporting systems necessary for Mission to operate effectively can be obtained elsewhere.
Conflicts of Interest Related to Outsourcing
Mr. J. P. Bryan served as Chief Executive Officer of Bellwether from August 1999 through May 2000. He continues to be a member of the Mission board of directors. Mr. Bryan is also Senior Managing Director of Torch and owns shares representing 23% of the shares of Torch on a fully diluted basis. Mr. Bryan also owned 1,061,750 shares of Bargo before the merger. Mr. Tim Goff, former Chairman of Bargo and current member of Mission's board of directors, is a non-compensated advisor to Torch regarding potential oil and gas property acquisitions. As discussed above, Torch and subsidiaries provide outsourcing services to Mission.
Torch and subsidiaries render outsourcing services to other independent oil and gas companies and may manage or render management or administrative services for other energy companies in the future. These services
may include the review and recommendation of potential acquisitions. It is possible that conflicts may occur between Mission and these other companies in connection with possible acquisitions or otherwise in connection with the services rendered by Torch. Although the MSA provides for procedures to reconcile conflicts of interest between these other companies and Mission, no assurances can be made that such procedures will fully protect Mission from losses which may occur if a conflict between it and these other companies arises.
Estimates of Oil and Gas Reserves
This document contains estimates of oil and gas reserves owned by Mission, and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond the control of Mission and the reserve engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of:
. the available data,
. assumptions regarding future oil and gas prices and expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and
. engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.
Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities and prices of oil and gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and estimates set forth herein. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. In calculating reserves on an oil equivalent basis, gas was converted to an oil equivalent at the ratio of one Bbl of oil to six MCF of gas. While this ratio approximates the energy equivalency of oil to gas on a Btu basis, it may not represent the relative prices received by Mission on the sale of its oil and gas production.
The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to estimated proved reserves set forth herein were prepared in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves.
Hedging of Production
Mission may, from time to time, reduce its exposure to the volatility of oil and gas prices by hedging a portion of its production. In a typical hedge transaction, Mission will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge, the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, Mission is required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, Mission is required to pay the difference regardless of whether it had sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require Mission to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging will also prevent Mission from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge.
Operating Hazards, Offshore Operations and Uninsured Risks
Mission's operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as:
. blowouts,
. cratering,
. explosions,
. uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids,
. fires,
. pollution,
. earthquakes and
. environmental risks.
These risks could result in substantial losses to Mission due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Moreover, a portion of Mission's operations are offshore and therefore are subject to a variety of operating risks which occur in to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, to more extensive governmental regulation, including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage, and to interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental or other considerations.
Mission's operations could result in a liability for:
. personal injuries
. property damage
. oil spills
. discharge of hazardous materials
. remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages
Mission could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on Mission's financial condition and results of operations. Mission maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, Mission may be subject to liability or the loss of substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages.
Environmental and Other Regulation
Mission's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations:
. require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences
. restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities
. limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas
. impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from the Company's operations
Moreover, the recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on Mission's operating costs, as well as the oil and gas industry in
general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on Mission.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on Mission.
Competition
The oil and gas business is highly competitive. Many competitors have substantially larger financial resources, staffs and facilities than Mission. These larger competitors include independent oil and gas producers such as Apache Corporation, Burlington Resources, Inc., Anadarko Petroleum Inc., and Ocean Energy, Inc. The availability of funds and information relating to a property, the standards established by Mission for the minimum projected return on investment, the availability of alternate fuel sources and the intermediate transportation of oil and gas are factors which affect Mission's ability to compete in the marketplace.
Item 3.