Item 2. Properties
Domestic Properties
The Company's domestic exploration, development and acquisition activities are focused in three core areas: Gulf Coast, Offshore Gulf of Mexico and Permian Basin. The company primarily owns working interests in domestic wells. Working interests are burdened by operating costs whereas royalty interests receive a share of unburdened revenues. As used herein, "reserve life" is the Company's estimated net proved at the end of year divided by production during the year.
Reserve life is a measure of the productive life of an oil and gas property or a group of oil and gas properties, expressed in years. Reserve life index for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 equal the estimated net proved reserves attributable to a property or group of properties divided by production from the property or group of properties for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date as of which the proved reserves were estimated.
Gulf Coast--The fields in this area are located in Louisiana and Texas. These fields produce gas as the primary product. Bellwether owns an interest in approximately 140 wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 35% of the Company's discounted present value. The average reserve life is 6 years. The average working interest of the Company in the wells is approximately 15 percent.
Gulf of Mexico--The fields in this area are located in state and federal waters offshore Louisiana and Texas. These fields produce gas as the primary product. The Company owns an interest in approximately 120 wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 35% of the Company's discounted present value. The average reserve life is 4 years. The average working interest of the Company in the wells is approximately 20 percent.
Permian Basin--The fields in this area are located in West Texas and New Mexico. The West Texas fields produce oil and the New Mexico fields produce gas as the primary product. The Company owns an interest in
approximately 1,200 wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 15% of the Company's discounted present value. The average reserve life is 14 years. The average working interest of the Company in the wells is approximately 10 percent.
Other--Non-core fields are located in California, Oregon, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The Company owns an interest in approximately 100 wells and the reserves from these wells account for about 6% of the Company's discounted present value.
International Properties
Ecuador--Bellwether operates two concessions in Ecuador, each of which contains one producing field. The working interest in the Charapa field is 90% and the working interest in the Tiguino field is 70%. Oil is the only sales product from both fields. Both fields are subject to contracts with the Ecuador government, under which the company has a share of production above specified base levels. Reserves from these wells account for about 9% of the Company's discounted present value. The average reserve life is 7 years.
Reserves
Estimated net proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2000 decreased approximately 18% from December 31, 1999. Properties, with proved reserves totaling 6.4 MMBOE, or about 17% of 1999 reserves, were sold during 2000. This decrease was partially offset by the increased oil and gas prices and the acquisition of a 70% working interest in the Tiguino field concession in Ecuador. The Company has not filed oil or gas reserve information with any foreign government or federal authority or agency that contain reserves materially different than those set forth herein.
The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2000 for the Company's core areas.
- -------- * Such reserves are pursuant to a contract with the Ecuadorian government under which the Company does not own the reserves but where the Company has a contractual right to produce the reserves and receive revenue. The Ecuadorian government has not issued final approval for the assignment of 4.9 MMBOE purchased by the Company; however, the Company has a legal opinion stating that it is legally entitled to the production of such reserves. ** Net production includes nine to twelve months of production from fields that were sold in the year 2000. Such fields have been removed from December 31, 2000 proved reserves.
In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are to some degree speculative, and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of speculation involved. Estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future
net cash flows expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. The Company's actual production, revenues, severance and excise taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to its reserves will vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material.
Estimates with respect to proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be substantial, in the estimated reserves.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the estimated discounted future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate unless prices or costs subsequent to that date are contractually determined. Additionally, the impact of financial derivatives is not considered. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than prices or costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as actual production, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers, changes in governmental regulations or taxation and the impact of inflation on costs.
Acreage
The following table sets forth the acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas properties in which the Company held an interest as of December 31, 2000. Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in the gross acres expressed as a whole number and percentages thereof. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one. All of the undeveloped acreage is domestic.
Bellwether believes that the title to its oil and gas properties is good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in the opinion of the Company, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties. The Company's properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following: 1) royalties and other burdens and obligations, express or implied, under oil and gas leases; 2) overriding royalties and other burdens created by the Company or its predecessors in title; 3) a variety of contractual obligations (including, in some cases, development obligations) arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles; 4) back-ins and reversionary interests arising under purchase agreements and leasehold assignments; 5) liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing obligations to unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements; 6) pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; and 7) easements, restrictions, rights- of-way and other matters that commonly affect oil and gas producing property. To the extent that such burdens and obligations affect the Company's rights to
production revenues, they have been taken into account in calculating the Company's net revenue interests and in estimating the size and value of the Company's reserves. Bellwether believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the Company's properties are conventional in the industry for properties of the kind owned by the Company.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth Bellwether's gross and net interests in productive oil and gas wells as of December 31, 2000. Productive wells are defined as producing wells and wells capable of production. Gross wells, as it applies to wells in the following tables, refer to the number of wells in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. A "net well" is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and percentages thereof.
Production
The Company's principal domestic production volumes during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000 were from the states of Louisiana, Texas, and Oregon from federal waters in offshore California and from federal and state waters in the Gulf of Mexico. The Charapa and Tiguino fields in Ecuador accounted for about 8% of the Company's oil production.
Data relating to production volumes, average sales prices, average unit production costs and oil and gas reserve information appears in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Supplemental Information.
Drilling Activity and Present Activities
During the last three fiscal years the Company's principal domestic drilling activities occurred in the Gulf Coast, the Gulf of Mexico, Oregon and New Mexico. Development of the Charapa and Tiguino fields in Ecuador accounted for all international activities.
The following table sets forth the results of drilling activity for the last three fiscal years.
Exploratory Wells
Development Wells
The Company had 6 domestic wells in progress as of December 31, 2000.
Gas Plants
As of December 31, 2000, the Company owned interests in the following gas plants:
- -------- (1) The Company has a 32.0% interest in the operations of the former Diamond M-Sharon Ridge Gas Plant. This plant was dismantled in December 1993 and the gas is being processed by Snyder Gas Plant pursuant to a processing agreement.
Risk Factors
Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices and Markets
Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include:
1) weather conditions in the United States,
2) the condition of the United States economy,
3) the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
4) governmental regulation,
5) political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere,
6) the foreign supply of oil and gas,
7) the price of foreign imports, and
8) the availability of alternate fuel sources.
During 2000 oil prices were higher than in the three previous years and natural gas prices were at record high levels. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have an adverse effect on the Company's carrying value of its proved reserves, its borrowing capacity, its ability to obtain additional capital, and its revenues, profitability and cash flows.
Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties in connection with acquisitions and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties as buyers and sellers
have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and exploitation, development and exploration projects.
The availability of a ready market for the Company's oil and natural gas production also depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. Wells may temporarily be shut-in for lack of a market or due to inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity.
Ability to Replace Reserves
The Company's future performance depends upon its ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The proved reserves of Bellwether will generally decline as those reserves are depleted. The Company therefore must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. Because the Company's reserves are characterized by relatively rapid decline rates, the Company's revenues will decline rapidly without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost.
Acquisition Risks
The Company's rapid growth in recent years has been attributable in significant part to domestic and, to a less significant part, international acquisitions of oil and gas properties. The Company expects to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms management considers favorable to the Company. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified in the future, or that the Company will be able to finance such acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, the Company competes against other companies for acquisitions, and there can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in the acquisition of any material property interests. Further, there can be no assurances that any future acquisitions made by the Company will be integrated successfully into the Company's operations or will achieve desired profitability objectives.
The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of:
1) recoverable reserves,
2) future production rates,
3) exploration and exploitation potential and timing,
4) future oil and natural gas prices,
5) operating costs,
6) infrastructure requirements,
7) potential environmental and other liabilities and
8) other factors beyond the Company's control.
In connection with such an assessment, the Company performs a review of the properties that it believes to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain, and such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit the Company to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In addition, sellers of properties may be unwilling or financially unable to indemnify the Company for known or unknown liabilities at the time of an acquisition.
Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of the operations and business of the Company depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geologic characteristics or geographic location than existing properties. While the Company's operations are focused in Texas, Louisiana, offshore California, the Gulf of Mexico, and Ecuador there is no assurance that the Company will not pursue acquisitions or properties located in other geographic areas.
On January 24, 2001, Bellwether entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Bargo Energy Company. The merger is subject the adoption and approval of the agreement by Bellwether shareholders, Bargo shareholders and the absence of any law or court order preventing the merger. Bargo and Bellwether filed a registration statement on Form S-4 (registration number 333-54798) with the SEC on February 1, 2001. A detailed discussion of risks associated with the proposed merger may be found there.
Drilling Risks
Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by the Company will be productive or that the Company will recover all or any portion of its investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and cost overruns are common. The Company's drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including:
1) title problems,
2) weather conditions,
3) compliance with governmental requirements, and
4) shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services.
Substantial Capital Requirements
The Company makes, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and gas reserves. Historically, the Company has financed these expenditures primarily with the sale of senior subordinated notes, proceeds from bank borrowings, sales of its common stock and cash flow from operations. The Company believes that it will have sufficient cash flow provided by operating activities, the proceeds of equity offerings and borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility to fund planned capital expenditures. If revenues or the Company's borrowing base decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, the Company may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations will be available to meet these requirements.
Significant Leverage and Debt Service
The Company's level of indebtedness has several important effects on its future operations, including:
1) a substantial portion of the Company's cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes,
2) covenants contained in the Company's debt obligations require the Company to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions limit its ability to borrow additional funds or to dispose of assets and may affect the Company's flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business, including possible acquisition activities, and
3) the Company's ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired.
The Company's ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will be dependent upon the Company's future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting the operations of the Company, many of which are beyond its control. There can be no assurance that the Company's future performance will not be adversely affected by such economic conditions and financial, business and other factors.
Risks of Foreign Operations
The Company was the successful bidder for a marginal field in Ecuador in 1998. Contract negotiations with the Ecuadorian government were completed in late 1999 with operations beginning January 2000. Operatorship of a second marginal field was acquired in July 2000. For these marginal fields, Bellwether partners with other companies in consortiums which are then party to the production sharing agreements with the Ecuadorian government. Bellwether is 90% partner in the first consortium and 70% partner in the second consortium. In addition, on December 30, 1999, the Company acquired an interest in Carpatsky, which has operations in Ukraine. Operations in Ecuador, Ukraine and other areas outside of the United States in which the Company may choose to do business, are subject to the various risks inherent to foreign operations. These risks may include, among other things, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection and other political risks, risks of an increase in taxes and governmental policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over the Company's international operations. The Company's international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment. In addition, in the event of a dispute arising from foreign operations, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
Outsourcing Agreement
Bellwether currently has 34 employees. The Company is party to a Master Services Agreement ("MSA") with Torch, pursuant to which Torch performs certain administrative functions for the Company, including financial, accounting, marketing, legal and technical support (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company believes that its relationship with Torch provides the Company access to professional, technical and administrative personnel not otherwise available to a company of its size. Bellwether believes that if the MSA were terminated Bellwether could, over time, hire experienced personnel and acquire the accounting and reporting systems and other assets necessary to replace Torch. However, the unanticipated termination of the MSA could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
Conflicts of Interest
Mr. J. P. Bryan served as Chief Executive Officer of Bellwether from August 1999 through May 2000. He remained as Chairman of the Board throughout the year. Mr. Bryan is also Senior Managing Director of Torch and owns shares representing 23% of the shares of Torch on a fully diluted basis. Mr. Bryan also owns 1,061,750 shares of Bargo, and a subsidiary of Torch provides outsourcing services to both Bellwether and Bargo.
Torch also renders outsourcing services to other independent oil and gas companies and may manage or render management or administrative services for other energy companies in the future. These services may include the review and recommendation of potential acquisitions. It is possible that conflicts may occur between Bellwether and these other companies in connection with possible acquisitions or otherwise in connection with the services rendered by Torch. Although the MSA provides for procedures to reconcile conflicts of interest between these other companies and Bellwether, no assurances can be made that such procedures will fully protect the Company from losses which may occur if a conflict between the Company and these other companies arises.
Estimates of Oil and Gas Reserves
This document contains estimates of oil and gas reserves owned by the Company, and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond the control of the Company and the reserve engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of:
1) the available data,
2) assumptions regarding future oil and gas prices and expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and
3) engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.
Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities and prices of oil and gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and estimates set forth herein. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. In calculating reserves on a oil equivalent basis, gas was converted to oil equivalent at the ratio of one Bbl of oil to six Mcf of gas. While this ratio approximates the energy equivalency of oil to gas on a Btu basis, it may not represent the relative prices received by the Company on the sale of its oil and gas production.
The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to estimated proved reserves set forth herein were prepared in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves.
Hedging of Production
The Company may, from time to time, reduce its exposure to the volatility of oil and gas prices by hedging a portion of its production. In a typical hedge transaction, the Company will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge, the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, the Company is required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, the Company is required to pay the difference regardless of whether the Company has sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require the Company to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging will also prevent the Company from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge.
Operating Hazards, Offshore Operations and Uninsured Risks
Bellwether's operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as: 1) blowouts, 2) cratering, 3) explosions, 4) uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, 5) fires, 6) pollution, 7) earthquakes and 8) environmental risks. These risks could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Moreover, a portion of the Company's operations are offshore and therefore are subject to a variety of operating risks which occur in to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, to more extensive governmental regulation, including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage, and to interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental or other considerations.
The Company's operations could result in a liability for: 1) personal injuries, 2) property damage, 3) oil spills, 4) discharge of hazardous materials and, 5) remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or the loss of substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages.
Environmental and Other Regulation
The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: 1) require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, 2) restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, 3) limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and 4) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from the Company's operations. Moreover, the recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on the Company. Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
Competition
The Company operates in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, development and production. The Company's competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and substantial independent energy companies, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than the Company.
Item 3.