ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland’s (now BROG’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. See “Item 1.
Business” for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by BROG.
Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of northwestern New Mexico and 4,049 gross (1,180.5 net) wells, calculated on a well bore basis and not including multiple completions as separate wells. Of those wells, seven gross (5.50 net) are oil wells and the balance are gas wells. BROG reports that approximately 828 gross (324.5 net) of the wells are multiple completion wells resulting in a total of 4,877 gross (1,505 net) completions. The Trust has inquired of BROG whether the acreage is developed or undeveloped. BROG has informed the Trust that all of the subject acreage is held by production, and even though it has not been fully developed in every formation, BROG has classified all of such acreage as developed. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation. In 2011 BROG drilled a well which was completed not only to the Mesaverde and the Dakota formations, but also to the Mancos Shale formation which lies between the two. BROG indicates it will continue to study the Mancos Shale formation and to drill wells intended to be completed to all three of the Mesaverde, Dakota and Mancos Shale formations.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG.
Capital expenses of $21 million were included in calculating Royalty Income paid to the Trust in calendar year 2011, and included expenditures for the drilling and completion of 56 gross (12.05 net) conventional wells and five gross (1.04 net) coal seam wells. There were nine gross (1.99 net) conventional wells in progress as of December 31, 2011. All of the wells were development wells and there were no dry development wells drilled in 2011.
Approximately $15.1 million of capital expenditures covered 251 projects budgeted for 2011. Approximately $11.9 million of those costs were incurred in drilling 23 new wells commenced in 2011 to be operated by BROG and none to be operated by third parties. The balance of the expenditures allocable to 2011 projects was attributable to the workover of existing wells and the maintenance and improvement of production facilities.
The $21 million of capital expenses reported by BROG for 2011 included approximately $5.9 million attributable to the capital budgets for prior years. This occurs because capital expenditures are deducted in calculating royalty income in the month they accrue, and projects within a given year’s budget often extend into subsequent years. Further, BROG’s accounting period for capital expenditures runs through November 30 of each calendar year, such that capital expenditures incurred in December of each year are actually accounted for as part of the following year’s capital expenditures. In addition, with respect to wells not operated by BROG, BROG’s share of capital expenditures may not actually be paid by it until the year or years after those expenses were incurred by the operator.
During 2010, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $13.1 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 61 gross (8.63 net) conventional wells and six gross (1.65 net) coal seam wells. There were eight gross (0.32 net) conventional wells and two gross (0.07 net) coal seam wells in progress as of December 31, 2010. All of the wells were development wells and there were no dry development wells drilled in 2010.
During 2009, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $33.6 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 92 gross (17.18 net) conventional wells, 36 gross (19.55 net) coal seam wells, two gross (.84 net) conventional recompletions, and one gross (.85 net) coal seam recompletion. There were 11 gross (1.21 net) conventional wells in progress as of December 31, 2009. All of the wells were development wells and there were no dry development wells drilled in 2009.
BROG has informed the Trust that its budget for capital expenditures for the Underlying Properties in 2012 is estimated at $20.8 million. Of the $20.8 million, approximately $5 million will be attributable to the capital budgets for 2011 and prior years. BROG reports that based on its actual capital requirements, the pace of regulatory approvals, the mix of projects and swings in the price of natural gas, the actual capital expenditures for 2012 could range from $5 million to $35 million.
BROG anticipates 383 projects in 2012. Approximately $12.4 million of the $20.8 million budget is allocable to 21 new wells, including 9 wells scheduled to be dually completed in the Mesaverde and Dakota formations and 12 wells to be completed in all three of the Mesaverde, Mancos Shale and Dakota formations. Approximately $3.4 million will be spent on workovers and facilities projects. Of the $5 million attributable to the budgets for prior years, approximately $3 million is allocable to 20 new wells and the $2 million balance will be applied to miscellaneous capital projects such as workovers and operated facility projects.
In February 2002, BROG informed the Trust that the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division (the “OCD”) had approved plans for 80-acre infill drilling of the Dakota formation in the San Juan Basin. In July 2003, the OCD approved 160-acre spacing in the Fruitland Coal formation. Eighty-acre spacing has been permitted in the Mesaverde formation since 1997. BROG is participating in an ongoing study involving test wells completed to the Mesaverde and/or Dakota formations, with some of the test wells drilled on a less than 80-acre spacing basis. In 2009, BROG drilled and completed a horizontal well in the Fruitland Coal formation on acreage that is burdened by the Royalty. BROG indicates that it will continue its program of horizontal drilling in 2012, with three or four horizontal wells planned to be drilled. While a horizontal well costs materially more to drill than a more traditional vertical well, the new technology enables the operator to reach additional reserves in areas not fully exploited. BROG reports it anticipates operating approximately three drilling rigs in the San Juan Basin during 2012 and that emphasis will be placed on re-working existing wells.
Oil and Gas Production
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Royalty Income for a calendar year is based on the actual gas and oil production during the period beginning with November of the preceding calendar year through October of the current calendar year. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 2011, were as follows:
Production volumes and costs attributable to the Underlying Properties for the three years ended December 31, 2011, were as follows:
Pricing Information
Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the Underlying Properties totaled 32,964,647 Mcf during 2011.
BROG previously entered into four contracts effective April 1, 2009, for the sale of all gas produced from the Underlying Properties other than the gas covered by a pre-existing contract with New Mexico Gas Company, Inc. (“NMGC”). The then current purchasers were Chevron Natural Gas, a division of Chevron USA, Inc. (“Chevron”), Pacific Gas and Electric Company (“PG&E”), BP Energy Company, Macquarie Cook Energy LLC, and NMGC. In March 2010, notice of termination of each of the Chevron, BP Energy Company and Macquarie Cook Energy LLC contracts was given such that they terminated effective March 31, 2011. Requests for proposal were circulated to potential purchasers of those packages of gas covered by the expiring contracts with a view toward obtaining new contracts to be effective April 1, 2011. Neither BROG, PG&E, nor NMGC gave notice of termination of their contracts such that the terms of those two contracts were automatically extended through at least March 31, 2013.
BROG entered into three new contracts effective April 1, 2011, for the sale of the gas produced from the Underlying Properties but not sold under the two pre-existing contracts. The purchasers under such new contracts are Chevron, PG&E and Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District (“SRP”). All five of the current contracts provided for (i) the delivery of such gas at various delivery points through March 31, 2013 and from year-to-year thereafter, until terminated by either party on written notice (except for the SRP contract which terminates March 31, 2012); and (ii) the sale of such gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with the published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. Requests for proposals have been circulated with a view toward entering into a new contract expiring March 31, 2013 for the sale of those volumes currently sold under contracts set to expire March 31, 2012.
On or about January 4, 2012 the operator of the Lybrook gas processing plant took that facility out of service and rerouted gas formerly treated there to its Ignacio plant. Because the NMGC system is not interconnected with the Ignacio plant it became impossible for BROG to sell gas to NMGC under the contract described above such that BROG declared a force majeure event and terminated the NMGC contract. BROG negotiated a contract to sell the NMGC volumes to Chevron at prices and terms acceptable to the Trust’s consultants for the period through the March 31, 2013 termination date of the prior NMGC contract.
BROG contracts with Williams Four Corners, LLC (“WFC”) and Enterprise Field Services, LLC (“EFS”) for the gathering and processing of virtually all of the gas produced from the Underlying Properties. Four new contracts were entered into with WFC to be effective for terms of 15 years commencing April 1, 2010. The new contracts consolidated and replaced 18 prior contracts with WFC. BROG indicates that the new contracts provide some modest reductions in fees and also improved services, including more rigorous line pressure controls and the right to install compression facilities as needed.
Although BROG was initially unable to reach agreement with EFS contemporaneously with the WFC contracts on gathering and processing, BROG reported that it has recently signed a new agreement with EFS which was effective November 1, 2011 for a term of 15 years. BROG has disclosed to the Trust a summary of that agreement which the Trust will review with its consultants, subject to conditions of confidentiality. The Trustee will continue to monitor this matter as it may relate to the Trust.
Confidentiality agreements with gatherers and purchasers of gas produced from the Underlying Properties prohibit public disclosure of certain terms and conditions of gas sales contracts with those entities, including specific pricing terms and gas receipt points. Such disclosure could compromise the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace for the sale of gas produced from the Underlying Properties.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following are definitions adopted by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
“Estimated future net revenues” are computed by applying current oil and gas prices (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(c)(4)(A). “Estimated future net revenues” are sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “estimated future net cash flows.”
“Present value of estimated future net revenues” is computed using the estimated future net revenues (as defined above) and a discount rate of 10%. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(c)(4)(A).
“Proved oil and gas reserves” are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations - prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(22).
“Proved reserves” are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(22); 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(2)(iii).
“Proved undeveloped reserves” or “PUDs” are undeveloped oil and gas reserves.
“Reasonable certainty” means (i) if deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered or (ii) if probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(24).
“Reserves” are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(26).
“Undeveloped oil and gas reserves” are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(31).
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment. The Trust, however, does not have information that would be available to a company with oil and gas operations because detailed information is not generally available to owners of royalty interests. Given this, the Trustee accumulates information and data provided by BROG regarding the Royalty derived from the Underlying Properties and provides such information to Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”). CG&A extrapolates from such
information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties based on its expertise in the oil and gas fields where the Underlying Properties are situated, as well as publicly available information. The Trust maintains internal controls and procedures applicable to reserve estimation which are reviewed annually and updated as required and reviews the reserve reports prepared by CG&A for reasonableness. The Trust’s internal controls and procedures regarding reserve estimates require proved reserves to be determined and disclosed in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance.
The Trust does not maintain an internal petroleum engineering department and instead relies upon CG&A for a qualified, independent report of estimated reserves. The Trust verifies the qualifications and credentials of CG&A to prepare reserve estimates on behalf of the Trust. The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 were prepared by CG&A. CG&A, whose firm registration number is, was founded in 1961 and is nationally recognized in the evaluation of oil and gas properties. The technical person at CG&A primarily responsible for overseeing the reserve estimate with respect to the Trust is Zane Meekins. Mr. Meekins has been a practicing petroleum engineering consultant since 1989, with over 23 years of practice experience in petroleum engineering. He is a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 71055). He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1987, summa cum laude, with a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering. CG&A and Mr. Meekins have indicated that they meet or exceed all requirements set forth in Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 2008, to December 31, 2011, (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved developed oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in thousands):
A summary of estimated quantities by geographic area for proved oil and gas reserves and undeveloped oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011 were as follows (in thousands):
Based on information provided by BROG, there were 75 PUDs identified as of December 31, 2011, as compared to 113 as of December 31, 2010. This estimate does not include one PUD identified but not drilled within five years from date of booking. For the year ended December 31, 2011, an aggregate of 18 Mbbls of oil and 9,700 MMcf of gas were converted from proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves.
The current estimate has also been adjusted to take into account the elimination of PUDs no longer deemed commercially viable due to declines in the market price of natural gas, as well as new PUDs identified during the year and those converted to proved developed, all in the ordinary course of business. See Item 2. Properties, above, for a discussion of historical and budgeted investment and progress to convert PUDs to proved developed.
Generally, the calculation of oil and gas reserves takes into account a comparison of the value of the oil or gas to the cost of producing those minerals, in an attempt to cause minerals in the ground to be included in reserve estimates only to the extent that the anticipated costs of production will be exceeded by the anticipated sales revenue. Accordingly, an increase in sales price and/or a decrease in production cost can itself result in an increase in estimated reserves and declining prices and/or increasing costs can result in reserves reported at less than the physical volumes actually thought to exist. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are estimated by applying annual average prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise’s proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) of developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables. Accordingly, under the allocation method used to derive the Trust’s quantity of proved reserves, changes in prices will result in changes in quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimated future net revenues.
The 2011, 2010 and 2009 changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves are as follows (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the tables above for the Royalty were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined BROG and Trust interests. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty were derived from estimates by allocating to the Royalty a portion of the total net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalty. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur. The future net cash flows were determined without regard to future federal income tax credits, if any, available to production from coal seam wells.
For 2011, $4.82 per Mcf of gas and $84.36 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. These prices were based on a 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of the month pricing of $4.12 per MMBtu of NYMEX natural gas and $96.19 per Bbl of West Texas Intermediate oil. The slightly downward revision in reserve quantities for 2011 is primarily due to the natural decline in the production from the properties.
For 2010, $4.63 per Mcf of gas and $68.38 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. These prices were based on a 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing of $4.38 per MMBtu of NYMEX natural gas and $79.43 per Bbl of West Texas Intermediate oil. The upward revision in reserve quantities for 2010 was due primarily to higher average gas prices during 2010 as compared to 2009.
For 2009, $3.49 per Mcf of gas and $51.98 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. These prices were based on a 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing of $3.87 per MMBtu of NYMEX natural gas and $61.18 per Bbl of West Texas Intermediate oil.
The following presents estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Royalty for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 (in thousands, except amounts per Unit):
Although estimated quantities of proved reserves declined slightly in 2011 as compared to 2010, the estimated future net revenue increased slightly, primarily due to higher prices for liquids products produced in connection with natural gas. Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the above estimates. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would require the analysis of additional parameters. Reserve estimates were not filed with any Federal authority or agency other than the SEC.
Regulation
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that BROG can produce and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which BROG can drill.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce, historically, have been regulated pursuant to several laws enacted by Congress and the regulations promulgated under these laws by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and its predecessor. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which gas could be sold. Congress removed all non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact price controls in the future.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation and sales. In addition, FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach to natural gas sales pursued over the last decade by FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The ability to transport and sell petroleum products are dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act. Certain regulations implemented by FERC in recent years could result in an increase in the cost of transportation service on certain petroleum products pipelines.
Section 45 Tax Credit
Sales of gas production from certain coal seam wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993, qualified for federal income tax credits under Section 29 (now Section 45K) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended, the “Code”) through 2002 but not thereafter. Accordingly, under present law, the Trust’s production and sale of gas from coal seam wells does not qualify for tax credit under Section 45K of the Code (the “Section 45 Tax Credit”). Congress has at various times since 2002 considered energy legislation, including provisions to reinstate the Section 45 Tax Credit in various ways and to various extents, but no legislation that would qualify the Trust’s current production for such credit has been enacted. For example, in December 2010, new energy tax legislation was enacted which, among other things, modified the Section 45 Tax Credit in several respects, but did not extend the credit for production from coal seam wells. No prediction can be made as to what future tax legislation affecting Section 45K of the Code may be proposed or enacted or, if enacted, its impact, if any, on the Trust and the Unit Holders.
Passive Loss Rules
The classification of the Trust’s income for purposes of the passive loss rules may be important to a Unit Holder. As a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, royalty income such as that derived through the Trust will generally be treated as portfolio income that may not be offset or reduced by passive losses.
Climate Change Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with federal, state and local regulations and laws regarding the effects of climate change. These laws and regulations have impacted, and will in the future continue to impact, the production, gathering, marketing and transportation of oil and natural gas.
Other Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity.
ITEM 3.