ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland’s (now Hilcorp’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin. See Item 1. Business, for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of Hilcorp (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by Burlington and Hilcorp.
The Subject Interests
The Subject Interests consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of northwestern New Mexico. According to the information provided by Hilcorp, there were, as of December 31, 2018, 4,322 gross (828.1 net) wells on the properties underlying the Subject Interests, calculated on a well bore basis and not including multiple completions as separate wells, of which approximately 988 gross (274.7 net) wells were Multiple Completion Wells, resulting in a total of 5,382 gross (1,134.7 net) completions.
Hilcorp has informed the Trust that all of the subject acreage is held by production, and even though it has not been fully developed in every formation, Hilcorp has classified all of such acreage as developed. Production from conventional natural gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations, ranging in depth from 1,500 to 8,000 feet. Additional production is attributable to coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation.
Coal seam natural gas constituted approximately 15% of our proved natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2018. The process of removing coal seam natural gas is often referred to as degasification or desorption. Millions of years ago, natural gas was generated in the process of coal formation and absorbed into the coal. Water later filled the natural fracture system. When the water is removed from the natural fracture system, reservoir pressure is lowered and the natural gas desorbs from the coal. The desorbed natural gas then flows through the fracture system and is produced at the well bore. The volume of formation water production typically declines with time and the natural gas production may increase for a period of time before starting to decline. Typically, the volumes of natural gas produced from a Coal Seam Well decline more rapidly than those of Conventional Wells. In order to dispose of the formation water, surface facilities including pumping units are required. The price of coal seam natural gas is typically lower than the price of conventional natural gas. This is because the heating value of coal seam natural gas is much lower than that of conventional natural gas due to (a) ever increasing percentages of carbon dioxide in coal seam natural gas (carbon dioxide has no heating value), and (b) the absence of heavier hydrocarbons such as ethanes, propanes, and butanes, which are present in conventional natural gas. Furthermore, the production costs and processing fees for coal seam natural gas are typically higher than the processing fees for conventional natural gas due to the cost of extracting the carbon dioxide.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by Hilcorp.
2019 Capital Expenditure Budget
On March 1, 2019, Hilcorp has informed the Trust that for 2019, it currently has budgeted approximately $2.6 million in capital expenditures, which includes approximately $0.7 million towards five well recompletions and approximately $1.9 million towards drilling one new horizontal well.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
Hilcorp’s reporting of natural gas volumes differs from the reporting of gas volumes by Burlington and ConocoPhillips. The natural gas volumes reported to the Trust by Hilcorp are based on plant residue gas volumes plus equivalent volumes for natural gas liquids. Hilcorp converts one barrel of natural gas liquids to six Mcf of natural gas using industry standards. Historically, ConocoPhillips reported natural gas production to the Trust based on wellhead volumes. Such differences in reporting methodology could significantly affect the comparison of reported natural gas volumes and average pricing in 2018 to those from prior periods.
Production of oil and natural gas and related average sales prices attributable to each of the Subject Interests and the Royalty for the two years ended December 31, 2018, were as follows:
Production costs for natural gas and oil attributable to the Subject Interests for the two years ended December 31, 2018 were as follows:
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Royalty Income for a calendar year is based on the actual natural gas and oil production during the period beginning with November of the preceding calendar year through October of the current calendar year. Sales volumes attributable to the Royalty are determined by dividing the net profits by the Trust from the sale of oil and natural gas, respectively, by the prices received for sales of such volumes from the Subject Interests, taking into consideration production taxes attributable to the Subject Interests. Because the oil and natural gas sales attributable to the Royalty are based upon an allocation formula dependent on such factors as price and cost, including capital expenditures, the aggregate sales amounts from the Subject Interests may not provide a meaningful comparison to sales attributable to the Royalty.
The fluctuations in annual natural gas production that have occurred during these two years generally resulted from changes in the demand for natural gas during that time, market conditions, and variances in capital
spending to generate production from new and existing wells, as offset by the natural production decline curve. Also, production from the Subject Interests is influenced by the line pressure of the natural gas gathering systems in the San Juan Basin. As noted above, oil and natural gas sales attributable to the Royalty are based on an allocation formula dependent on many factors, including oil and natural gas prices and capital expenditures.
Marketing
Natural gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Please refer to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. As part of the transition from Burlington to Hilcorp, Hilcorp has assumed, or been assigned, all the natural gas purchase, gathering and processing contracts affecting the Subject Interests. Natural gas produced from the Subject Interests is processed at the following sites: Chaco, Val Verde, Milagro, Ignacio or Kutz plants, all located in the San Juan Basin. Hilcorp sells natural gas produced from the Subject Interests under various contracts.
Hilcorp’s sales contracts with Chevron Natural Gas (“Chevron) and EDF Trading North America LLC (“EDF”) automatically renewed for an additional one-year term and now expire on March 31, 2020. Each of Hilcorp’s sales contracts with EDF and Chevron provides for (i) the delivery of such natural gas at various delivery points through their respective termination dates and (ii) the sale of such natural gas at prices that fluctuate in accordance with published indices for natural gas sold in the San Juan Basin. Hilcorp’s natural gas sales contract with New Mexico Gas Company, Inc. automatically renewed for an additional one-year term and now expires on March 31, 2020. The contract provides for the sale of certain winter-only natural gas supplies processed at the Kutz plant at prices that fluctuate in accordance with published indices for natural gas sold in the San Juan Basin.
Hilcorp contracts with Enterprise Field Services, LLC (“EFS”) for the gathering and processing of certain natural gas produced from the Subject Interests. Hilcorp’s predecessor signed an agreement with EFS which was effective November 1, 2011 for a term of 15 years. Hilcorp’s predecessor has disclosed to the Trust a summary of that agreement which the Trust has reviewed with its consultants, subject to conditions of confidentiality.
Hilcorp’s predecessor entered into four contracts with Williams Four Corners, LLC (“WFC”), each of which is effective for a term of 15 years commencing April 1, 2010. The EFS and WFC contracts covered the gathering and processing of virtually all of the natural gas produced from the Subject Interests. On October 1, 2018, Harvest Midstream I, L.P., an affiliated midstream company of Hilcorp, completed the acquisition of WFC’s gas pipeline and processing facilities in the San Juan Basin. The Conveyance sets forth the processing costs that Hilcorp can charge for both non-affiliates and affiliates.
The Trust is not a party to any of the purchase, gathering or processing contracts. As part of the 1996 settlement of litigation filed by the Trustee in 1992 against Burlington and Southland, the Trustee and Burlington established a formal protocol pursuant to which compliance auditors retained by the Trustee have access to Burlington and its successors’ books and records, which protocol has been adopted by Hilcorp.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Proved Reserves
All of the Trust’s reserves are located in the San Juan Basin. Total proved Developed and Undeveloped Oil and Natural Gas Reserves attributable to the Royalty as of December 31, 2018 were as follows:
(1) Proved reserves were calculated using prices equal to the twelve-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for each of the preceding twelve months, which were $3.10 per MMBtu (Henry Hub) of natural gas and $65.56 per Bbl (West Texas Intermediate) of oil. The adjusted volume-weighted average prices over the life of the properties were $2.55 per Mcf of gas and $54.06 per Bbl of oil.
(2) The Trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserves because the Conveyance has defined the Trust’s interest as a net overriding royalty interest. Because the Trust’s reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net overriding royalty interest.
Estimated quantities of proved Developed Oil and Natural Gas Reserves attributable to the Royalty as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows:
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Based on information provided by Burlington, Hilcorp, and analysis by our independent reserve engineer, there were no proved undeveloped reserves identified as of December 31, 2018 or 2017.
Internal Controls over Reserves Estimates
The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment. The Trust, however, does not have the same level of information that generally would be available to a company with oil and natural gas operations because detailed information generally is not available to owners of royalty interests. Thus, the Trustee relies upon accumulated information and data solely provided by Hilcorp regarding the Royalty derived from the Subject Interests and provides such information for the Trust’s auditing purposes to Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”). CG&A extrapolates from such Hilcorp-provided information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Subject Interests based on its expertise in the oil and natural gas fields where the Subject Interests are situated, as well as other publicly available information, and provides the results to the Trust.
The Trust maintains internal controls and procedures applicable to reserve estimation which are reviewed annually and updated as required and reviews the reserve reports prepared by CG&A for reasonableness. The Trust’s internal controls and procedures regarding reserve estimates require proved reserves to be determined and disclosed in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance.
Third-Party Reserves
The Trust does not maintain an internal petroleum engineering department and instead relies upon CG&A for a qualified, independent report of estimated reserves. The Trust has verified the qualifications and credentials of CG&A to prepare reserve estimates on behalf of the Trust. The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 were prepared by CG&A. CG&A, whose firm registration number is, was founded in 1961 and is nationally recognized in the evaluation of oil and natural gas properties. The technical person at CG&A primarily responsible for overseeing the reserve estimate with respect to the Trust is Zane Meekins. Mr. Meekins has been a practicing petroleum engineering consultant since 1989, with over 30 years of practice experience in petroleum engineering, and is a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 71055). Mr. Meekins graduated from Texas A&M University in 1987, summa cum laude, with a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering. Both CG&A and Mr. Meekins have indicated that they meet or exceed all requirements set forth in Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Regulation
General
Exploration for and production and sale of oil and natural gas are extensively regulated at the national, state, and local levels. These laws may govern a wide variety of matters, including allowable rates of production, transportation, marketing, pricing, well construction, water use, prevention of waste, waste disposal, pollution and protection of the environment. These laws, regulations and orders have in the past, and may again, restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist in the absence of such laws, regulations and orders.
Laws affecting the oil and natural gas industry and the distribution of its products are under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on operations. Numerous governmental departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry. Compliance with applicable laws is often difficult and costly, while non-compliance may result in substantial penalties. Such costs and penalties may affect the amount of net proceeds attributable to the Royalty that are paid to the Trust by Hilcorp or by subsequent operators of the Subject Interests.
Natural Gas
The transportation and resale of natural gas in interstate commerce, historically, have been regulated pursuant to several laws enacted by Congress and the regulations promulgated under these laws by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and its predecessor. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold in interstate commerce. Congress removed all price and non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas under the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act effective January 1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact controls in the future.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation and sales. In addition, FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such
proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach to natural gas sales pursued since 1993 by FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The ability to transport and sell petroleum products depends on pipelines that transport such products in interstate commerce and FERC regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service by such pipelines under the Interstate Commerce Act.
Any such price or non-price control regulations may affect the amount of net proceeds attributable to the Royalty that are paid to the Trust by Hilcorp or subsequent operators of the Subject Interests.
Environmental Regulation
General. Activities on the Subject Interests are subject to existing stringent and complex federal, state and local laws (including case law) and regulations governing health, safety, environmental quality and pollution control. Failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations, however, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the operations on the Subject Interests.
Cleanup. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, the operators of the Subject Interests could be subject to strict, joint and several liability for the removal or remediation of property contamination, whether at a drill site or a waste disposal facility, even when the operators did not cause the contamination or their activities were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the actions were taken. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the “superfund” law, for example, imposes liability, regardless of fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons for releases into the environment of a “hazardous substance.” Liable persons may include the current or previous owner and operator of a site where a hazardous substance has been disposed and persons who arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance at a site. Under CERCLA and similar statutes, government authorities or private parties may take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment or sue responsible persons for the associated costs. In the course of operations, the working interest owner and/or the operator of Subject Interests may have generated and may generate materials that could trigger cleanup liabilities. In addition, the Subject Interests have produced oil and/or natural gas for many years, and previous operators may have disposed or released hydrocarbons, wastes or hazardous substances at the Subject Interests. The operator of the Subject Interests or the working interest owners may be responsible for all or part of the costs to clean up any such contamination. Although the Trust is not the operator of any Subject Interests, or the owner of any working interest, its ownership of the Royalty could cause it to be responsible for all or part of such costs to the extent CERCLA or any similar statute imposes responsibility on such parties as “owners.”
Climate Change. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on those findings, the EPA adopted and implemented various regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. The current Trump Administration has tried to delay or revise a number of the Obama-era regulations; however, proponents of climate change regulations have been challenging those efforts in various courts with some success to date, and the outcomes of future elections may result in a return to President Obama’s regulatory scheme or other policy agendas that seek to curb the U.S. production and usage of fossil fuels. The direction of future U.S. climate change regulation therefore is difficult to predict, as well as the impact such regulation may have on the amount of net proceeds attributable to the Royalty that are paid to the Trust by Hilcorp or subsequent operators of the Subject Interests. In addition, federal agencies may or may not continue developing regulations to reduce GHG emissions from the oil and gas industry. Even if federal efforts in this area slow, states may continue pursuing climate regulations.
Various state governments and regional organizations comprising state governments already have enacted legislation and promulgated rules restricting GHG emissions or promoting the use of renewable energy, and additional such measures are frequently under consideration. Although it is not possible at this time to estimate how potential future requirements addressing GHG emissions would impact operations on the Subject Interests and Royalty Income, either directly or indirectly, any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require the operator of the Subject Interests to incur new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain equipment and facilities, install new emission controls, acquire allowances to authorize GHG emissions, pay taxes related to GHG emissions or administer a GHG emissions program. Regulation of GHGs could also result in a reduction in demand for and production of oil and natural gas. Additionally, to the extent that unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, the Subject Interests may be adversely affected to a greater degree than previously experienced.
Certain Tax Considerations
The classification of the Trust’s income for purposes of the passive loss rules may be important to a Unit Holder. As a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, royalty income such as that derived through the Trust will generally be treated as portfolio income that may not be offset or reduced by passive losses.
The Trustee has been informed that the New Mexico Oil and Gas Proceeds and Pass-Through Entity Withholding Tax Act (the “Withholding Tax Act”) requires remitters who pay certain oil and natural gas proceeds from production on New Mexico wells to withhold income taxes from such proceeds in the case of certain nonresident recipients. The Trustee, on advice of New Mexico counsel, has observed that “net profits interests,” such as the Royalty, and other types of interests, the extent of which cannot be determined with respect to a specific share of the oil and natural gas production, as well as amounts deducted from payments that are for expenses related to oil and natural gas production, are excluded from the withholding requirements of the Withholding Tax Act. Unit Holders should consult with their individual tax advisors regarding the applicability of the Withholding Tax Act and other tax matters to distributions received from the Trust by a Unit Holder.
ITEM 3.