Item 2. Properties
The net overriding royalties conveyed to the Trust (the “Royalties”) include: (1) a 75% net overriding royalty carved out of Southland Royalty’s fee mineral interests in the Waddell Ranch in Crane County, Texas (the “Waddell Ranch properties”); and (2) a 95% net overriding royalty carved out of Southland Royalty’s major producing royalty interests in Texas (the “Texas Royalty properties”). The interests out of which the Trust’s net overriding royalty interests were carved were in all cases less than 100%. The Trust’s net overriding royalty interests represent burdens against the properties in favor of the Trust without regard to ownership of the properties from which the overriding royalty interests were carved. The net overriding royalty for the Texas Royalty properties is subject to the provisions of the lease agreements under which such royalties were created. References below to “net” wells and acres are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalties were carved) in the “gross” wells and acres.
A production index for oil and gas properties is the number of years derived by dividing remaining reserves by current production. The production index for the Trust properties based on the reserve report prepared by independent petroleum engineers as of December 31, 2012, is approximately 12.6 years.
The following information under this Item 2 is based upon data and information, including audited computation statements, furnished to the Trustee by BROG and Riverhill Energy.
PRODUCING ACREAGE, WELLS AND DRILLING
Waddell Ranch Properties. The net profits/overriding royalty interest in the Waddell Ranch properties is the largest asset of the Trust. The mineral interests in the Waddell Ranch, from which such net royalty interests are carved, vary from 37.5% (Trust net interest) to 50% (Trust net interest) in 78,715 gross (34,205 net) producing acres. A majority of the proved reserves are attributable to six fields: Dune, Sand Hills (Judkins), Sand Hills (McKnight), Sand Hills (Tubb), University-Waddell (Devonian) and Waddell. At December 31, 2012, the Waddell Ranch properties contained 889 gross (400 net) productive oil wells, 64 gross (30 net) productive gas wells and 177 gross (506 net) injection wells.
BROG is operator of record of the Waddell Ranch properties. All field, technical and accounting operations have been contracted by agreements between the working interest owners and Schlumberger Integrated Project Management (IPM) and Riverhill Capital Corporation (“Riverhill Capital”), but remain under the direction of BROG.
Six major fields on the Waddell Ranch properties account for more than 80% of the total production. In the six fields, there are 12 producing zones ranging in depth from 2,800 to 10,600 feet. Most prolific of these zones are the Grayburg and San Andres, which produce from depths between 2,800 and 3,400 feet. Also productive from the San Andres are the Sand Hills (Judkins) gas field and the Sand Hills (McKnight) oil field, the Dune (Grayburg/San Andres) oil field, and the Waddell (Grayburg/San Andres) oil field.
The Dune and Waddell oil fields are productive from both the Grayburg and San Andres formations. The Sand Hills (Tubb) oil fields produce from the Tubb formation at depths averaging 4,300 feet, and the University Waddell (Devonian) oil field is productive from the Devonian formation between 8,400 and 9,200 feet.
The Waddell Ranch properties are mature producing properties, and all of the major oil fields are currently being waterflooded for the purpose of facilitating enhanced recovery. Proved reserves and estimated future net revenues attributable to the properties are included in the reserve reports summarized below. BROG does not own the full working interest in any of the tracts constituting the Waddell Ranch properties and, therefore, implementation of any development programs will require approvals of other working interest holders as well as BROG. In addition, implementation of any development programs will be dependent upon oil and gas prices currently being received and anticipated to be received in the future. There were 2 (gross) drill wells completed on the Waddell Ranch properties during 2012. At December 31, 2012, there were 3 horizontal drill wells yet to be completed, no workovers in progress and 49 completed workover wells on the Waddell Ranch properties. In addition, a waterflood expansion project undertaken during 2012 on the Waddell Ranch properties included 2 new drill producing wells, 1 new drill injector well, 7 new conversion wells, 5 producing workover wells and 5 injector well workovers completed by December 31, 2012. There were 4 gross wells drilled and completed on the Waddell Ranch properties during 2011. At December 31, 2011 there were no drill wells and 13 workovers in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties. There was 1 gross well drilled and completed on the Waddell Ranch properties during 2010. At December 31, 2010 there were 4 drill wells and 5 workovers in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties.
BROG has advised the Trustee that the total amount of capital expenditures for 2012 with regard to the Waddell Ranch properties totaled $65.8 million (gross). Capital expenditures include the cost of remedial and maintenance activities. This amount spent is approximately $9.1 million less than the budgeted amount projected by BROG for 2012.
BROG has advised the Trustee that the capital expenditures budget for 2013 totals approximately $93.9 million, of which approximately $35.5 million (gross) is attributable to the 2013 drilling program, $36 million (gross) to workovers and recompletions, and $15.4 million (gross) to facilities. The remaining $7 million is attributable to final completion of the projects included in the 2012 budget. Accordingly, there is a 28% increase in capital expenditures for 2013 as compared with the 2012 capital expenditures. The major reason for the variance is the increase in the number of planned capital recompletions, addition of a drilling program, an increased level of facility work and the remaining completion of the water flood and horizontal drilling program from the 2012 budget. There will be 24 vertical wells ($17.4 million net), 48 recompletions ($16.6 million net), facilities and base capital project costs of $6.7 million (net) and carryover costs of $2.7 million (net) in 2013 for the completion of projects included in the 2012 budget as compared to 5 new drill wells, 1 injector well, 1 waterflood expansion project and 49 completed workover wells in 2012.
Texas Royalty Properties. The Texas Royalty properties consist of royalty interests in mature producing oil fields, such as Yates, Wasson, Sand Hills, East Texas, Kelly-Snyder, Panhandle Regular, N. Cowden, Todd, Keystone, Kermit, McElroy, Howard-Glasscock, Seminole and others located in 33 counties across Texas. The Texas Royalty properties consist of approximately 125 separate royalty interests containing approximately 303,000 gross (approximately 51,000 net) producing acres. Approximately 41% of the future net revenues discounted at 10% attributable to Texas Royalty properties are located in the Wasson and Yates fields. Detailed information concerning the number of wells on royalty properties is not generally available to the owners of royalty interests. Consequently, an accurate count of the number of wells located on the Texas Royalty properties cannot readily be obtained.
In February 1997, BROG sold its interests in the Texas Royalty properties that are subject to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance to the Trust dated effective November 1, 1980 (“Texas Royalty Conveyance”) to Riverhill Energy Corporation (“Riverhill Energy”), which was then a wholly-owned subsidiary of Riverhill Capital and an affiliate of Coastal Management Corporation (“CMC”). At the time of such sale, Riverhill Capital was a privately owned Texas corporation with offices in Bryan and Midland, Texas. The Trustee was informed by BROG that, as required by the Texas Royalty Conveyance, Riverhill Energy succeeded to all of the requirements upon, and the responsibilities of BROG under, the Texas Royalty Conveyance with regard to the Texas Royalty properties. BROG and Riverhill Energy further advised the Trustee that all accounting operations pertaining to the Texas Royalty properties were being performed by Riverhill Energy.
The Trustee has been advised that, effective April 1, 1998, Schlumberger Technology Corporation (“STC”) acquired all of the shares of stock of Riverhill Capital. Prior to the acquisition by STC, CMC and Riverhill Energy were wholly-owned subsidiaries of Riverhill Capital. The Trustee has further been advised, in accordance with the STC acquisition of Riverhill Capital, the shareholders of Riverhill Capital acquired ownership of all shares of stock of Riverhill Energy. Effective January 1, 2001 CMC merged into STC. Thus, the ownership in the Texas Royalty properties remained in Riverhill Energy.
The Trustee has been advised that as of May 1, 2000, the accounting operations pertaining to the Texas Royalty properties were transferred from STC to Riverhill Energy. As of January 1, 2012, ConocoPhillips assumed all field, technical and accounting operations, on behalf of BROG, with regard to the Waddell Ranch properties. ConcoPhillips currently provides summary reporting of monthly results for the Waddell Ranch properties.
Well Count and Acreage Summary. The following table shows as of December 31, 2012, the gross and net producing wells and acres for the BROG interests. The net wells and acres are determined by multiplying the gross wells or acres by the BROG interests owner’s working interest in the wells or acres. Similar information is not available for the Riverhill Energy interests. There is no undeveloped acreage on the Waddell Ranch properties.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related distribution is received. Production of oil and gas attributable to the Royalties and the Underlying Properties, the related average sales prices and the average production cost per unit of production attributable to the Underlying Properties for the three years ended December 31, 2012, excluding portions attributable to the adjustments discussed below, were as follows:
Since the oil and gas sales attributable to the Royalties are based on an allocation formula that is dependent on such factors as price and cost (including capital expenditures), production amounts do not necessarily provide a meaningful comparison.
Waddell Ranch properties lease operating expense for 2012 was $20,605,025 (gross) and $15,453,769 (net). The lease operating expense increased 5.4% from 2011 to 2012 primarily because of increased prices, unusually high amount of road repairs and transition costs. Waddell Ranch lifting cost on a barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) basis was $20.30/bbl as compared to $13.85 in 2011 and $11.56 in 2010.
PRICING INFORMATION
Reference is made to the caption entitled “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of natural gas. The following paragraphs provide information regarding sales of oil and gas from the Waddell Ranch properties. As a royalty owner, Riverhill Energy is not furnished detailed information regarding sales of oil and gas from the Texas Royalty properties.
Oil. The Trustee has been advised by BROG that since June 2006, the oil from the Waddell Ranch has been marketed by ConocoPhillips by soliciting bids from third parties on an outright sale basis of production listed in bid packages.
Gas. The gas produced from the Waddell Ranch properties is processed through a natural gas processing plant and sold at the tailgate of the plant. Plant products are marketed by Burlington Resources Trading Inc., an indirect subsidiary of BRI. The processor of the gas (Warren Petroleum Company, L.P.) receives 15% of the liquids and residue gas as a fee for gathering, compression, treating and processing the gas.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following are definitions adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Item:
“Proved oil and gas reserves” are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations - prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is
reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
(i) The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes:
(A) The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and
(B) Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data.
(ii) In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty.
(iii) Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty.
(iv) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when:
(A) Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and
(B) The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities.
(v) Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
“Developed oil and gas reserves” are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered (i) through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and (ii) through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
“Estimated future net revenues” are computed by applying average prices during the 12-month period prior to fiscal year-end determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the- month benchmark price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. “Estimated future net revenues” are sometimes referred to herein as estimated future net cash flows.
“Present value of estimated future net revenues” is computed using the estimated future net revenues and a discount factor of 10%.
“Reserves” are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project.
“Undeveloped oil and gas reserves” are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
(i) Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances.
(ii) Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances, justify a longer time.
(iii) Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir, as defined in 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(2), or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment. As a result, the Trustee has developed internal policies and controls for estimating reserves. As described above, the Trust does not have information that would be available to a company with oil and gas operations because detailed information is not generally available to owners of royalty interests. The Trustee gathers production information (which information is net to the Trust’s interests in the Underlying Properties) and provides such information to Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., who extrapolates from such information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties based on its expertise in the oil and gas fields where the Underlying Properties are situated, as well as publicly available information. The Trust’s policies regarding reserve estimates require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance.
The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Royalties conveyed to the Trust were obtained from Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. has been in business since 1973 when the petroleum consulting firm Keller & Augustson merged with the petroleum consulting firm Cawley, Harrington & Gillespie. The primary business of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. is the estimation and evaluation of petroleum reserves. Kenneth J. Mueller, has been employed by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. since 1996. Mr. Mueller attended Texas A&M University from 1975 to 1979, graduating with a Bachelor of Science degree, Summa Cum Laude, in Petroleum Engineering in 1979, and has in excess of fifteen years experience in oil and gas reserves studies and evaluations. Mr. Mueller is a licensed professional engineer with the Texas Board of Professional Engineers and a member of the Texas Society of Professional Engineers.
Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc.’s reports are attached as exhibits to this Form 10-K. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012 (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and net cash flow as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:
Estimated quantities of proved developed reserves of oil and gas as of the dates indicated were as follows (in thousands):
The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are computed by applying the average prices during the 12-month period prior to fiscal year-end, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month benchmark price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their very nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables.
The 2012, 2011 and 2010 change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash revenues related to future royalty income from proved reserves attributable to the Royalties discounted at 10% is as follows (in thousands):
Average oil and gas prices of $94.71 per barrel and $2.75 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from both the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties, respectively, at December 31, 2012. The downward revisions of both reserves and discounted future net cash flows for the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties are primarily due to increased capital expenditures and a decline in the price of gas offset by stronger pricing for oil.
Average oil and gas prices of $96.19 per barrel and $4.11 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties, respectively, at December 31, 2011. The upward revisions of both reserves and discounted future net cash flows for the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties were primarily due to stronger pricing for oil and gas.
Average oil and gas prices of $79.43 per barrel and $4.37 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties, respectively, at December 31, 2010. The upward revisions of both reserves and discounted future net cash flows for the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties were primarily due to stronger pricing for oil and gas compared to 2009.
The following presents estimated future net revenue and the present value of estimated future net revenue attributable to the Royalties, for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the preceding tables for the Royalties were estimated from projections of reserves and revenue attributable to the combined BROG, River Hill Energy and Trust interests in the Waddell Ranch properties and Texas Royalty properties. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties were estimated by allocating to the Royalties a portion of the total estimated net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalties. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur.
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the original estimate. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered as the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
Detailed information concerning the number of wells on royalty properties is not generally available to the owner of royalty interests. Consequently, the Registrant does not have information that would be disclosed by a company with oil and gas operations, such as an accurate account of the number of wells located on the above royalty properties, the number of exploratory or development wells drilled on the above royalty properties during the periods presented by this report, or the number of wells in process or other present activities on the above royalty properties, and the Registrant cannot readily obtain such information.
REGULATION
Many aspects of the production, pricing, transportation and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that can be produced, potentially to raise prices, and to limit the number of wells or the locations which can be drilled.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “FERC”) is primarily responsible for federal regulation of natural gas. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal governmental regulation, including regulation of transportation and storage tariffs and various other matters, by the FERC. On August 8, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, among other things, amended the Natural Gas Act to prohibit market manipulation by any entity, to direct the FERC to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce, and to significantly increase the penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or the FERC rules, regulations or orders thereunder. Wellhead sales of domestic natural gas are not subject to regulation. Consequently, sales of natural gas may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and the FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation, and sales. In addition, the FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to the FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry. The ultimate impact of the rules and regulations issued by the FERC since 1985 cannot be predicted. In addition, many aspects of these regulatory developments have not become final but are still pending judicial decisions and final decisions by the FERC.
New proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Crude oil prices are affected by a variety of factors. Since domestic crude price controls were lifted in 1981, the principal factors influencing the prices received by producers of domestic crude oil have been the pricing and production of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Export Countries (OPEC).
On December 19, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007 (PL 110 140). The EISA, among other things, prohibits market manipulation by any person in connection with the purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline or petroleum distillates at wholesale in contravention of such rules and regulations that the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe, directs the Federal Trade Commission to enforce the regulations, and establishes penalties for violations thereunder.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Environmental Regulation
Companies in the oil and gas industry are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the health and safety aspects of oil and gas operations, the management and discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Those laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to the operations of the Underlying Properties, including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling or underground injection activities; the restriction on the types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations including waste generation, air emissions, water discharges and current and historical waste disposal practices. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the operations. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, the operators of the Underlying Properties could also be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, in either case, whether at a drill site or a waste disposal facility, regardless of whether the operators were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken.
In addition, climate change is the subject of an important public policy debate and the basis for new legislation proposed by the United States Congress and certain states. Some states have adopted climate change statutes and regulations. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect January 1, 2010, and required reporting by regulated facilities by September 30, 2011 and annually thereafter. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule that sets forth reporting requirements for the petroleum and natural gas industry and requires persons that hold state drilling permits that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year to report annually carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide emissions from certain sources beginning on March 31, 2012. The deadline for the petroleum and natural gas industry sources to report their greenhouse gas emissions was extended to September of 2012.
Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an “Endangerment Finding” under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding that greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of future generations. The EPA indicated that it will use data collected through the reporting rules to decide whether to promulgate future greenhouse gas emission limits. On April 17, 2012, the EPA issued a final rule that established new source performance standards for volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) and sulfur dioxide, an air toxics standard for major sources of oil and natural gas production, and an air toxics standard for major sources of natural gas transmission and storage. Limiting emissions of VOCs will have the co-benefit of also limiting methane, a greenhouse gas. These regulations apply to wells that are hydraulically fractured, or refractured, and to storage tanks and other equipment.
Congress and various states, including Texas, have proposed or adopted legislation regulating or requiring disclosure of the chemicals in the hydraulic fracturing fluid that is used in the drilling operation. Hydraulic fracturing has historically been regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. The EPA, however, has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”). The EPA has developed draft underground injection control guidance for oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuels. A relevant issue is how the EPA will define diesel, which could cover a variety of oils that are not diesel but that have similar carbon-chain molecules.
The EPA is also conducting a congressionally mandated study on the effects of hydraulic fracturing on water at all stages in the operational cycle of harvesting natural gas, which is expected to be completed in 2014. This study is anticipated to form the basis for a comprehensive regulatory effort. The EPA study, or other studies, of hydraulic fracturing could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory programs. The re-election of President Obama makes such regulation of the oil and gas industry more likely.
The Trustee is unable to predict the total impact of the current and potential regulations upon the operators of the Underlying Properties, but it is possible that the operators of the Underlying Properties could face operational delays, increases in the operating costs to comply with climate change or any other environmental legislation or regulation, or decreases in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells, each of which could reduce net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions.
Other Regulation
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. The Trustee does not believe that compliance with these laws by the operating parties will have any material adverse effect on Unit holders.
Item 3.