ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland Royalty’s (now BROG’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. See “Item 1. Business” for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by BROG.
Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of
northwestern New Mexico and 3,823 gross (1,111 net) wells, calculated on a well bore basis and not including multiple completions as separate wells. Of those wells, seven gross (5.50 net) are oil wells and the balance are gas wells. BROG reports that approximately 739 of the wells are multiple completion wells resulting in a total of 4,599 completions. The Trust has inquired of BROG whether the acreage is developed or undeveloped. BROG has informed the Trust that all of the subject acreage is held by production, and even though it has not been fully developed in every formation, BROG has classified all of such acreage as developed. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland Royalty began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG.
During 2007, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted $27.4 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 45 gross (21.47 net) conventional wells and 21 gross (15.31 net) coal seam wells. There were ten gross (0.35 net) conventional wells and nine gross (4.52 net) coal seam wells in progress as of December 31, 2007. All of the wells were development wells.
The aggregate capital expenditures deducted by BROG in calculating Royalty Income for 2007 include approximately $16.8 million attributable to the capital budgets for prior years. This occurs because projects within a given year’s budget may extend into subsequent years, with capital expenditures attributable to those projects used in calculating distributable income to the Trust in those subsequent years. Further, BROG’s accounting period for capital expenditures runs through November 30 of each calendar year, such that capital expenditures incurred in December of each year are actually accounted for as part of the following year’s capital expenditures. In addition, with respect to wells not operated by BROG, BROG’s share of capital expenditures may not actually be paid by it until the year or years after those expenses were incurred by the operator.
Capital expenditures of approximately $10.6 million for 2007 budgeted projects were used in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust in calendar year 2007. The $10.6 million covered 140 projects, including the drilling of 79 new wells operated by BROG and one new well operated by a third party. New drilling activity was at an aggregate cost of approximately $7.8 million. The balance of the expenditures was attributable to the workover of existing wells and the maintenance and improvement of production facilities. BROG reports that an additional approximately $5 million in capital expenditures for budgeted 2007 projects is estimated to be spent in 2008.
During 2006, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $39.2 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling a completion of 115 gross (24.14 net) conventional wells, two gross (0.003 net) payadds, two gross (1.74 net) recompletions, three gross (2.50 net) restimulations, 44 gross (14.63 net) coal seam wells, seven gross (0.28 net) coal seam payadds, two gross (0.48 net) coal seam recompletions, and two gross (0.08 net) coal seam miscellaneous capital projects. There were 100 gross (26.27 net) conventional wells, 14 gross (0.39 net) payadds, seven gross (3.49 net) recompletions, six gross (4.02 net) restimulations, four gross (0.02 net) miscellaneous capital projects, 28 gross (11.79 net) coal seam wells, one gross (0.04 net) coal seam payadd, five gross (3.57 net) coal seam recompletions, and two gross (0.004 net) coal seam restimulations in progress as of December 31, 2006. All of the wells were development wells. A payadd is the completion of an additional productive interval in an existing completed zone in a well.
During 2005, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $19.1 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 38 gross (2.72 net) conventional wells, five gross (0.011 net) payadds, one gross (0.57 net) conventional restimulation, 25 gross (2.89 net) coal seam wells, one gross (0.99 net) coal seam recavitation, two gross (0.61 net) coal seam recompletions, and five gross (0.20 net) miscellaneous coal seam capital projects. There were 110 gross (19.08 net) conventional wells, eight gross (1.73 net) payadds, six gross (3.30 net) conventional recompletions, seven gross (5.04 net) conventional restimulations, 59 gross (10.06 net) coal seam wells, five gross (2.32 net) coal seam recompletions, and one gross (0.04 net) miscellaneous coal seam capital project in progress as of December 31, 2005. All of the wells were development wells.
BROG has informed the Trust that it has revised the 2008 budget for capital expenditures for the Underlying Properties to $24.4 million, an increase from the $18.3 million that was previously disclosed in the Trust’s press release dated February 19, 2008. Approximately 35% of the planned expenditures will be on Fruitland Coal formation projects with the remainder to be spent on conventional projects. In addition, BROG estimates that during 2008 it will incur capital expenses in the amount of approximately $5 million attributable to the capital budgets for 2007 and prior years. BROG reports that based on its actual capital requirements, the pace of regulatory approvals, the mix of projects and swings in the price of natural gas, the actual capital expenditures for 2008 could range from $15 million to $50 million.
BROG anticipates 361 projects in 2008 at an aggregate cost of $24.4 million. Approximately $19.7 million of that budget is allocable to 70 new wells, including 37 wells scheduled to be dually completed in the Mesaverde and Dakota formations at an aggregate projected cost of approximately $9.4 million, and four wells to be completed to the Dakota formation at an aggregate cost of approximately $2.3 million. BROG indicates that 16 of the new wells, at an aggregate cost of approximately $7.3 million, are projected to be drilled to formations producing coal seam gas. BROG also mentioned that the possible implementation of new rules restricting the use of open reserve pits could reduce the number of projects due to increased compliance costs. Of the $5 million attributable to the budgets for prior years, approximately $2 million is allocable to new wells to be operated by BROG; an estimated $1 million is allocable to new wells to be operated by others; and the $2 million balance will be applied to miscellaneous capital projects such as workovers and operated facility projects.
In February 2002, BROG informed the Trust that the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division (the “OCD”) had approved plans for 80-acre infill drilling of the Dakota formation in the San Juan Basin. In July 2003, the OCD approved 160-acre density in the Fruitland Coal formation. Eighty-acre density has been permitted in the Mesaverde formation since 1997. In January 2008, BROG reported to the Trust that it will participate in a study involving a total of 16 test wells to be completed to the Mesaverde and/or Dakota formations, with some of the test wells to be drilled on a 40-acre spacing basis and others on a 20-acre spacing. In addition, BROG is scheduled to participate in a pilot project for the drilling of four horizontal wells, with two to be completed to each of the Dakota and Mesaverde formations. Although none of the four horizontal wells are to be drilled on acreage burdened by the Royalty, the pilot project could have implications for the San Juan Basin generally.
Oil and Gas Production
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Royalty Income for a calendar year is based on the actual gas and oil production during the period beginning with November of the preceding calendar year through October of the current calendar year. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 2007, were as follows:
Production volumes and costs attributable to the Underlying Properties for the three years ended December 31, 2007, were as follows:
Pricing Information
Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the Underlying Properties totaled 36,961,349 Mcf during 2007.
On September 4, 1996, the Trustee announced a settlement of litigation filed by the Trustee against BROG (the “1996 Settlement”). In the 1996 Settlement, agreement was reached, among other things, regarding marketing arrangements for the sale of those gas, oil and natural gas liquids products from the Underlying Properties going forward as follows:
(i) BROG agreed that all subsequent contracts for the sale of gas from the Underlying Properties would require the written approval of an independent gas marketing consultant acceptable to the Trust;
(ii) BROG will continue to market the oil and natural gas liquids from the Underlying Properties but will make payments to the Trust based on actual proceeds from such sales, and BROG will no longer use posted prices as the basis for calculating proceeds to the Trust nor make a deduction for marketing fees associated with sales of oil or natural gas liquids products; and
(iii) The independent marketer of the gas from the Underlying Properties is entitled to use of BROG’s current gas transportation, gathering, processing and treating agreements with third parties, at least through the remainder of their primary terms.
BROG previously entered into two contracts for the sale of all volumes of gas produced from the Underlying Properties. These contracts provided for (i) the sale of such gas to Duke Energy and Marketing, L.L.C. and PNM Gas Services (“PNM”), respectively, (ii) the delivery of such gas at various delivery points through March 31, 2005, and from year-to-year thereafter until terminated by either party on 12 months’ notice, and (iii) the sale of such gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. Effective January 1, 2004, the rights and obligations of Duke Energy and Marketing L.L.C. were assumed by ConocoPhillips Company (“ConocoPhillips”) pursuant to an Assignment and Novation Agreement. By correspondence dated March 25, 2004, BROG notified ConocoPhillips of BROG’s election to terminate such contract as of March 31, 2005. BROG then prepared a form of request for proposal and circulated it to a number of potential purchasers, including ConocoPhillips, inviting them to bid for the purchase of the gas currently sold under the contract expiring March 31, 2005. Effective as of April 1, 2005, BROG entered into two new contracts for the sale of all volumes of gas produced from the Underlying Properties and formerly sold to ConocoPhillips. These new contracts provide for (i) the sale of such gas to ChevronTexaco Natural Gas, a division of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (“ChevronTexaco”), and Coral Energy Resources, L.P. (“Coral”), respectively, (ii) the delivery of such gas at various delivery points through March 31, 2007, and from year-to-year thereafter until terminated by either party on 12 months’ notice, and (iii) the sale of such gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with the published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. With respect to BROG’s contract with PNM, BROG and PNM entered into a letter agreement dated January 31, 2005, pursuant to which the term of that contract was adjusted to coincide with the contracts with ChevronTexaco and Coral. Neither BROG nor any of ChevronTexaco, Coral nor PNM gave notice by March 31, 2007 to terminate the three contracts described above for the sale of all volumes of gas produced from the Underlying Properties and, accordingly, the terms of those contracts have been extended at least through March 31, 2009. On January 15, 2008, PNM Resources, the corporate parent of PNM, announced a definitive agreement to sell its natural gas operations to a subsidiary of Continental Energy Systems. The sale is conditioned upon regulatory approval and customary closing conditions and is currently expected to close by the end of 2008.
Confidentiality agreements with purchasers of gas produced from the Underlying Properties prohibit public disclosure of certain terms and conditions of gas sales contracts with those entities, including specific pricing terms and gas receipt points. Such disclosure could compromise the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace for the sale of gas produced from the Underlying Properties.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following are definitions adopted by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
“Estimated future net revenues” are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. “Estimated future net revenues” are sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “estimated future net cash flows.”
“Present value of estimated future net revenues” is computed using the estimated future net revenues (as defined above) and a discount rate of 10%.
“Proved developed reserves” are those reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(3).
“Proved reserves” are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(2) - (2)(iii).
“Proved undeveloped reserves” are those reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(4).
The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 2004, to December 31, 2007, (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved developed reserves of crude oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in thousands):
Generally, the calculation of oil and gas reserves takes into account a comparison of the value of the oil or gas to the cost of producing those minerals, in an attempt to cause minerals in the ground to be included in reserve estimates only to the extent that the anticipated costs of production will be exceeded by the anticipated sales revenue. Accordingly, an increase in sales price and/or a decrease in production cost can itself result in an increase in estimated reserves and declining prices and/or increasing costs can result in reserves reported at less than the physical volumes actually thought to exist. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are estimated by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise’s proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) of developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables. Accordingly, under the allocation method used to derive the Trust’s quantity of proved reserves, changes in prices will result in changes in quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimated future net revenues.
The 2007, 2006 and 2005 changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves are as follows (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the tables above for the Royalty were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined BROG and Trust interests. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty were derived from estimates by allocating to the Royalty a portion of the total net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalty. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur. The future net cash flows were determined without regard to future federal income tax credits available to production from coal seam wells.
The December 31, 2007 price of $7.14 per Mcf of gas and $87.22 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. The upward revision in reserve quantities for 2007 is due primarily to an increase in gas prices in December 2007 as compared to December 2006, offset by increased lease operating expenses and reduced gas and oil production.
The December 31, 2006 price of $6.39 per Mcf of gas and $58.65 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. The downward revision in reserve quantities for 2006 as compared to 2005 is due primarily to lower gas prices in December 2006 as compared to December 2005.
The December 31, 2005 price of $8.19 per Mcf of gas and $54.17 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue.
The following presents estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Royalty for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands, except amounts per Unit):
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the above estimates. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would require the analysis of additional parameters.
Reserve estimates were not filed with any Federal authority or agency other than the SEC.
Regulation
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that BROG can produce and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which BROG can drill.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce, historically, have been regulated pursuant to several laws enacted by Congress and the regulations promulgated under these laws by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and its predecessor. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which gas could be sold. Congress removed all non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact price controls in the future.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation and sales. In addition, FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various
aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach pursued over the last decade by FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The ability to transport and sell petroleum products are dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act. Certain regulations implemented by FERC in recent years could result in an increase in the cost of transportation service on certain petroleum products pipelines.
Section 45 Tax Credit
Sales of gas production from certain coal seam wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993, qualified for federal income tax credits under Section 29 (now Section 45K) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), through 2002 but not thereafter. Accordingly, under present law, the Trust’s production and sale of gas from coal seam wells does not qualify for tax credit under Section 45K of the Code (the “Section 45K Tax Credit”). Congress has at various times since 2002 considered energy legislation, including provisions to reinstate the Section 45K Tax Credit in various ways and to various extents, but no legislation that would qualify the Trust’s current production for such credit has been enacted. For example, on August 8, 2005, new energy tax legislation was enacted which, among other things, modified the Section 45K Tax Credit in several respects, but did not extend the credit for production from coal seam wells. No prediction can be made as to what future tax legislation affecting Section 45K of the Code may be proposed or enacted or, if enacted, its impact, if any, on the Trust and the Unit Holders.
Passive Loss Rules
The classification of the Trust’s income for purposes of the passive loss rules may be important to a Unit Holder. As a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, royalty income such as that derived through the Trust will generally be treated as portfolio income that may not be offset or reduced by passive losses.
Other Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity.
ITEM 3.