ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The 75% net overriding royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland Royalty's (now BROG's) working interest and royalty interests in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. References below to "gross" wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to "net" are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by BROG.
PRODUCING ACREAGE, WELLS AND DRILLING
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests and royalty interests in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of northwestern New Mexico. Based upon information
received from the Trust's independent petroleum engineers, the Trust properties contain 3,204 gross (897 net) economic wells, including dual completions. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland Royalty began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation. For additional information concerning coal seam gas, the "Description of the Properties" section of the Trust's Annual Report to security holders for the year ended December 31, 1999, is herein incorporated by reference.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG.
During 1999, BROG incurred approximately $10.5 million of capital expenditures for the drilling and completion of 71 gross (7.22 net) conventional wells, recompletion of 4 gross (1.36 net) conventional wells, drilling and completion of 3 gross (.93 net) coal seam wells, 1 gross (.54 net) coal seam well recompletion, and 10 gross (.07 net) coal seam recavitations. There were 53 gross (20.14 net) new conventional wells, 25 gross (3.77 net) conventional well recompletions, 3 gross (.39 net) coal seam wells, 7 gross (.79 net) coal seam recompletions, and 38 gross (.75 net) coal seam recavitations in progress as of December 31, 1999.
During 1998, BROG incurred approximately $12.8 million of capital expenditures for the drilling and completion of 36 gross (11.89 net) conventional wells, recompletion of 25 gross (13.8 net) conventional wells, two gross (.08 net) coal seam well recompletions, and 37 gross (2.28 net) coal seam recavitations. There were 17 gross (1.46 net) new conventional wells, one gross (.05 net) coal seam recompletion, and three gross (.12 net) coal seam recavitations in progress as of December 31, 1998.
BROG announced that the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division has approved plans for 80-acre infill drilling of the Mesaverde formation in the San Juan Basin. The Mesaverde formation was originally developed in the 1950's on 320-acre spacing, with infill drilling initiated in the early 1970's on 160-acre spacing. In 1994, BROG undertook an extensive study of the Mesaverde formation. Results indicated that downspaced drilling (infill drilling) on 80-acre spacing could significantly increase recoverable gas reserves in this massive reservoir. A pilot program began in 1997 and was expanded in 1998 to include two additional areas.
The Trust has been advised that capital expenses for 2000 are projected to be approximately $20.5 million. Approximately 95% of that amount will be attributable to conventional projects. Of the 400 planned projects, 57 will be conventional new drill locations at a cost of approximately $13.7 million, 99 will be attributable to workovers at a cost of $5.2 million, and 244 of the projects will be miscellaneous facilities projects at a cost of $1.6 million. Of the 57 new drilling projects planned for 2000, 21 are on properties in which BROG owns 100% of the working interest, so that the Trust's share of the planned capital expenditures is increased as compared to wells in which BROG owns only a partial working interest.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related distribution is received. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 1999 were as follows:
PRICING INFORMATION
Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to "Regulation" for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the properties from which the Royalty was carved totaled 39,940,175 Mcf during 1999.
On September 4, 1996, the Trustee announced the settlement of the litigation (the "Litigation") filed by the Trustee against BROG and Southland Royalty Company. The Litigation, which was filed in the state district court of Santa Fe County, New Mexico, Cause No. SF 94-1982(c), was dismissed on September 12, 1996.
Agreement was reached, among other things, regarding marketing arrangements for the sale of those gas, oil and natural gas liquids products which are subject to the Royalty (the "Trust" gas, oil and/or natural gas liquids) as follows:
(i) BROG agreed that, except for a pre-existing contract which has since expired, all subsequent contracts for the sale of Trust gas would require the written approval of an independent gas marketing consultant acceptable to the Trust;
(ii) BROG will continue to market the Trust oil and natural gas liquids but will make payments to the Trust based on actual proceeds from such sales. BROG will no longer use posted prices as the basis for calculating proceeds to the Trust nor make a deduction for marketing fees associated with sales of oil or natural gas liquids products; and
(iii) The independent marketer of the Trust gas is entitled to access to BROG's current gas transportation, gathering, processing and treating agreements with third parties through the remainder or their primary terms.
The gas purchase contracts described in subparagraph (i), above, were continued, by agreement of the parties until December 31, 1997. Effective January 1, 1998, all volumes of Trust gas became subject to the terms of a Natural Gas Sales and Purchase Contract between BROG and El Paso. That contract is for a term of two years through and including December 31, 1999 and provides for the sale of Trust gas at prices which will fluctuate in accordance with published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. BROG entered into the contract with El Paso after soliciting and receiving competitive bids in late 1997 from six major gas marketing firms to market and/or purchase the Trust gas. BROG has entered into a contract dated November 10, 1999 for the sale of all volumes of Trust gas to Duke Energy and Marketing L.L.C. That contract provides for delivery of gas at various delivery points over a period commencing January 1, 2000 and ending October 31, 2001 and provides for the sale of Trust gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico.
Confidentiality agreements with purchasers of gas produced from the Underlying Properties prohibit public disclosure of certain terms and conditions of gas sales contracts with those entities, including specific pricing terms, gas receipt points, etc. Such disclosure could compromise the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace for the sale of gas produced from the Underlying Properties.
See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements of the Trust's Annual Report to securityholders for the year ended December 31, 1998 for further discussion of this settlement and its impact on the Trust.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following are definitions adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Item:
"Estimated future net revenues" are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by
federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. "Estimated future net revenues" are sometimes referred to in this Form 10-K as "estimated future net cash flows."
"Present value of estimated future net revenues" is computed using the estimated future net revenues (as defined above) and a discount rate of 10%.
"Proved reserves" are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which, upon analysis of geological and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
"Proved developed reserves" are those proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
"Proved undeveloped reserves" are those proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
The independent petroleum engineers' reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999 were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1999 (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved developed reserves of crude oil and natural gas as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were as follows (in thousands):
Generally, the calculation of oil and gas reserves takes into account a comparison of the value of the oil or gas to the cost of producing those minerals, in an attempt to cause minerals in the ground to be included in reserve estimates only to the extent that the anticipated costs of production will be exceeded by the anticipated sales revenue. Accordingly, an increase in sales price and/or a decrease in production cost can itself result in an increase in estimated reserves and declining prices and/or increasing costs can result in reserves reported at less than the physical volumes actually thought to exist. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are estimated by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise's proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables. Accordingly, under the allocation method used to derive the Trust's quantity of proved reserves, changes in prices will result in changes in quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimated future net revenues.
The 1999, 1998 and 1997 changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves discounted at 10% are as follows (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the tables above for the Royalty were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined BROG and Trust interests. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty were derived from estimates by allocating to the Royalty a portion of the total net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalty. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur. The future net cash flows were determined without regard to future federal income tax credits available to production from coal seam wells.
December average prices of $2.39 per Mcf of conventional gas, $1.49 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $22.30 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 1999, in determining future net revenue. The upward revision is primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in December 1999.
December average prices of $1.82 per Mcf of conventional gas, $1.30 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $8.60 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 1998, in determining future net revenue. The downward revision is primarily due to significantly lower oil and gas prices in December 1998 as compared to December 1997.
December average prices of $2.21 per Mcf of conventional gas, $1.55 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $15.97 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 1997, in determining future net revenue. The downward revision is primarily due to significantly lower gas prices in December 1997 as compared to December 1996.
The following presents estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Royalty for each of the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 (in thousands except amounts per Unit):
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the above estimates. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered as the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
REGULATION
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that BROG can produce and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which BROG can drill.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") is primarily responsible for federal regulation of natural gas. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal governmental regulation, including regulation of transportation and storage tariffs and various other matters, by the FERC. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 ("Decontrol Act") terminated federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas on January 1, 1993. Consequently, sales of natural gas may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions. The FERC's jurisdiction over natural gas transportation and storage was unaffected by the Decontrol Act.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and the FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation, and sales. In addition, the FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to the FERC's jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the
intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach pursued over the last decade by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Effective as of January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil that could increase the cost of transporting oil to the purchaser or reduce wellhead prices for crude oil.
Section 29 Tax Credit
The Trust began receiving royalty income from coal seam gas wells in 1989. Under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code, coal seam gas production from wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993 (including certain wells recompleted in coal seams formations thereafter), generally qualifies for the federal income tax credit for producing non- conventional fuels if such production and the sale thereof occurs before January 1, 2003. For 1999, this tax credit will be approximately $1.04 per MMBtu. To benefit from the credit, each Unit holder must determine from the tax information he receives from the Trust his pro rata share of qualifying production of the Trust, based upon the number of Units owned during each month of the year, and the amount of available credit per MMbtu for the year, and then apply the tax credit against his own income tax liability, but such credit may not reduce his regular tax liability (after the foreign tax credit and certain other nonrefundable credits) below his tentative minimum tax. Section 29 also provides that any amount of Section 29 credit disallowed for the tax year solely because of this limitation will increase his credit for prior year minimum tax liability, which may be carried forward indefinitely as a credit against the taxpayer's regular tax liability, subject, however, to the limitations described in the preceding sentence. There is no provision for the carryback or carryforward of the Section 29 credit in any other circumstances.
BROG provides the Trustee with certain Section 29 tax credit information, including coal seam volumes produced from Trust Properties. In 1999, the Tenth Circuit Court upheld the position of the IRS and the Tax Court that nonconventional fuel such as coal seam gas does not qualify for the Section 29 credit unless the producer received a formal certification from the FERC. The FERC's certification authority expired effective January 1, 1993. Many producers believe that wells meeting the certification requirements are eligible for the Section 29 credit regardless of the FERC certification. However, this position is not in accordance with the IRS position or the decisions of the Tenth Circuit Court or the Tax Court. The courts may hear other cases regarding this matter and it is not possible to predict the likely outcome. In the event the IRS position is ultimately upheld, the ability of the Unit holders to utilize allocated Section 29 credits in full could be questioned. But on December 23, 1999, a petition was filed with the FERC by a coalition of energy producers seeking reinstatement of the certification process. By letter dated January 14, 2000, the U.S. Department of Energy expressed its support of that petition and on January 27, 2000 the FERC issued notice of proposed rulemaking by which its regulations would be amended to reinstate certain regulations involving well category determinations for Section 29 tax credits for certain well recompletions commenced after January 1, 1993. It is not yet possible to predict the likely outcome of this rulemaking process.
Other Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity.
ITEM 3.