ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The net overriding royalties conveyed to the Trust include: (1) a 75% net overriding royalty carved out of Southland Royalty's fee mineral interests in the Waddell Ranch in Crane County, Texas (the "Waddell Ranch properties"); and (2) a 95% net overriding royalty carved out of Southland Royalty's major producing royalty interests in Texas (the "Texas Royalty properties"). The net overriding royalty for the Texas Royalty properties is subject to the provisions of the lease agreements under which such royalties were created. References below to "net" wells and acres are to the interests of Southland Royalty (from which the Royalties were carved) in the "gross" wells and acres.
The following information in Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by Southland Royalty or BROG.
PRODUCING ACREAGE, WELLS AND DRILLING
Waddell Ranch Properties. The Waddell Ranch properties consist of 78,175 gross (34,205 net) producing acres. A majority of the proved reserves are attributable to six fields: Dune, Sand Hills (Judkins), Sand Hills
(McKnight), Sand Hills (Tubb), University-Waddell (Devonian) and Waddell. At December 31, 1996, the Waddell Ranch properties contained 871 gross (359.51 net) productive oil wells, 152 gross (64.54 net) productive gas wells and 310 gross (125.44 net) injection wells.
Effective May 1, 1991, Chevron USA, Inc. ("Chevron") resigned as operator of the Waddell Ranch properties. Southland Royalty was named the operator of record. BROG is now operator of record. All field, technical and accounting operations have been contracted by an agreement between the working interest owners and Coastal Management Corporation ("CMC") but remain under the direction of BROG.
The Waddell Ranch properties are mature producing properties, and all of the major oil fields are currently being waterflooded. Proved reserves and estimated future net revenues attributable to the properties are included in the reserve reports summarized below. BROG does not own the full working interest in any of the tracts constituting the Waddell Ranch properties and, therefore, implementation of any development programs will require approvals of other working interest holders as well as BROG. In addition, implementation of any development programs will be dependent upon oil and gas prices currently being received and anticipated to be received in the future. During 1996 there were 22 gross (8.375 net) oil wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch Properties. At December 31, 1996 there were no wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch Properties. During 1995 there were 32 gross (14.075 net) oil wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch properties. At December 31, 1995 there were 3 gross (.8 net) wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties. During 1994 there were 22 gross (9.875 net) wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch properties. At December 31, 1994 there were no wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties. During 1993 there were 15 gross (6.75 net) wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch properties. At December 31, 1993 there were 4 gross (2 net) wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties.
BROG has advised the Trust that the total amount of capital expenditures for 1996 with regard to the Waddell Ranch properties totalled $9,989,064. Capital expenditures include the cost of the 1996 drilling program and remedial and maintenance activities. BROG has advised the Trust that the capital expenditures budget for 1997 totals $11,835,000, of which $5,203,000 is attributable to the 1997 drilling program, $5,051,000 to workovers and recompletions and $1,581,000 to facility upgrades and replacements. The Trustee has also been advised that $220,000 of capital expenditures were not accrued in 1996 and will be included in the royalty calculations in 1997. Accordingly, there is an estimated 18% increase in capital expenditures for 1997 as compared with the 1996 capital expenditures.
Texas Royalty Properties. The Texas Royalty properties consist of royalty interests in mature producing oil fields, such as Yates, Wasson, Sand Hills, East Texas, Kelly-Snyder, Panhandle Regular, N. Cowden, Todd, Keystone, Kermit, McElroy, Howard-Glasscock, Seminole and others. The Texas Royalty properties contain approximately 303,000 gross (approximately 51,000 net) producing acres. Detailed information concerning the number of wells on royalty properties is not generally available to the owners of royalty interests. Consequently, an accurate count of the number of wells located on the Texas Royalty properties cannot readily be obtained.
Approximately $1.3 million in ad valorem taxes related to 1991 through 1994 for the Texas Royalty properties that Southland Royalty did not previously charge to gross proceeds attributable to the Trust was charged to the Trust over 12 months beginning March 1995. Such amount was charged by deducting $87,000 per month from gross proceeds attributable to the Texas Royalty properties in calculating royalty income from such properties. To the extent charges were made to gross proceeds, the amount of funds available for distribution to Unit holders was reduced.
In the fourth quarter of 1996, BROG notified the Trust that, pursuant to an ongoing divestiture program, BROG intended to sell its interests in the Texas Royalty properties that are subject to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance to the Trust dated effective November 1, 1980 ("Conveyance"). A Purchase and Sale Agreement was executed between BROG and Riverhill Energy Corporation ("Riverhill"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Riverhill Capital Corporation and an affiliate of CMC. CMC currently conducts all field, technical and accounting operations on behalf of BROG with regard to the Waddell Ranch properties. Riverhill is a privately owned Texas corporation with offices in Bryan and Midland, Texas. The Trustee was advised by BROG that the transaction closed on February 14, 1997. The Trustee has been further informed by
BROG that, as required by the Conveyance, Riverhill has succeeded to all of the requirements upon and the responsibilities of BROG under the Conveyance with regard to the Texas Royalty properties. BROG and Riverhill have further advised the Trustee that all accounting operations pertaining to the Texas Royalty properties will be performed by CMC under the direction of Riverhill. BROG had indicated to the Trustee that BROG will work together with CMC and Riverhill in an effort to assure that various administrative functions and reporting requirements assumed by Riverhill are met. The Trustee has been advised that independent auditors representing Riverhill and CMC will be Arthur Andersen.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related distribution is received. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalties for the three years ended December 31, 1996, excluding portions attributable to the adjustments discussed below, were as follows:
As a result of an issue raised by the Trustee during March 1994 regarding potential underpayments of royalty income by Southland Royalty from the Texas Royalty properties beginning January 1991, the March 1994 royalty income included a payment by Southland Royalty of $2.9 million, or $.062261 per Unit. Further net revisions resulted in additional payments to the Trust by Southland Royalty of approximately $221,000 and $133,000 in the quarters ended June 30, 1994, and September 30, 1994, respectively. The payments made by Southland Royalty were estimates of previous underpayments of royalty income to the Trust and were subject to revision as additional investigation of such underpayments was performed by BROG and the Trustee. The Trustee engaged its independent accountants and independent petroleum engineers to review certain information underlying such payments previously received from BROG, and has determined that the amounts are reasonable.
In accordance with the terms of the conveyances which conveyed the Royalties to the Trust, to the extent it has the legal right to do so, Southland Royalty had, and now BROG has, the obligation for marketing the production from the properties from which the Trust's Royalties were carved, at the best prices and on the best terms it deems reasonably obtainable in the circumstances. In accordance with the conveyances, the Trustee gave notice to Southland Royalty of the reservation of the Trust's right to question certain lease expenses and the adequacy of prices obtained by Southland Royalty for oil production during the period commencing May 1, 1991, and any further resulting or ancillary claims which may exist as a consequence of the foregoing claims as to adequacy of pricing.
On January 3, 1994, the dispute between the Trustee and Southland Royalty regarding the adequacy of prices obtained by Southland Royalty for oil production during the period May 1991 through February 1993, was resolved. As a result of the settlement of such dispute, Southland Royalty agreed to pay the Trust $850,000 or $.0182369 per Unit. Such payment to the Trust was made on January 31, 1994, and was included in distributions made to Unit holders of record on January 31, 1994. The Trust has been advised by BROG that for the period August 1, 1993 through June 30, 1997, the oil from the Waddell Ranch properties is being sold under a competitive bid to independent third parties.
PRICING INFORMATION
Reference is made to "Regulation" for information as to federal regulation of prices of natural gas. The following paragraphs provide information regarding sales of oil and gas from the Waddell Ranch properties. As a royalty owner, Southland Royalty is not furnished detailed information regarding sales of oil and gas from the Texas Royalty properties.
Oil. The Trustee has been advised by BROG that for the period August 1, 1993 through June 30, 1997, the oil from the Waddell Ranch properties is being sold under a competitive bid to independent third parties.
Gas. The gas produced from the Waddell Ranch properties is processed through a natural gas processing plant and sold at the tailgate of the plant. Plant products are marketed by Burlington Resources Hydrocarbons Inc., an indirect subsidiary of BRI. The processor of the gas (Warren Petroleum Company, L.P.) receives 15% of the liquids and residue gas as a fee for gathering, compression, treating and processing the gas.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following are definitions adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Item:
"Proved reserves" are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which, upon analysis of geological and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
"Proved developed reserves" are those proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
"Proved undeveloped reserves" are those proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
"Estimated future net revenues" are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. "Estimated future net revenues" are sometimes referred to herein as "estimated future net cash flows".
"Present value of estimated future net revenues" is computed using the estimated future net revenues and a discount factor of 10%.
The independent petroleum engineers' reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Royalties conveyed to the Trust were obtained from Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities from December 31, 1993 through December 31, 1996 (in thousands):
The production volumes for 1994 for the Texas Royalty properties include volumes associated with the Other Payments received during 1994. See discussion of Other Payments in Note 8 in the Notes to Financial Statements of the Trust's Annual Report to security holders for the year ended December 31, 1996.
Estimated quantities of proved developed reserves of crude oil and natural gas as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 were as follows (in thousands):
The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are computed by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise's proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their very nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables.
The 1996, 1995 and 1994 change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves discounted at 10% is as follows (in thousands):
Oil and gas prices of $23.88 and $22.32 per barrel and $4.00 and $2.64 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties at December 31, 1996. The extension, discoveries and other additions for the Waddell Ranch properties are reserves added as a result of remedial activity in the Waddell Ellenberger Field. The upward revision of the estimated oil and gas reserves and the related increase in the discounted future net cash flow for the Waddell Ranch properties was due to the increase in oil and gas prices from 1995 to 1996, as well as production response from drilling and remedial activity. The largest increase in oil reserves due to drilling and remedial activity occurred in the Waddell Field. The revisions in the oil and gas reserves and related discounted cash flow for the Texas Royalty properties are mainly due to the increase in oil and gas prices at December 31, 1996.
Oil and gas prices of $18.02 and $16.19 per barrel and $1.94 and $1.75 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties at December 31, 1995. The extension, discoveries and other additions for the Waddell Ranch properties are proved undeveloped reserves related to field extension development for the Waddell Field. The upward revisions of both reserves and discounted future net cash flows for the Waddell Ranch properties are due to the increases in oil prices as well as production response from drilling and remedial activities on the Dune Field, Sand Hills (Judkins) Field, Sand Hills (Tubb) Field and the Waddell Field. The upward revisions of reserves
and discounted future net cash flows for the Texas Royalty properties are due to the increase in oil prices at December 31, 1995.
Oil and gas prices of $15.60 and $14.50 per barrel and $1.87 and $1.75 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties at December 31, 1994. The upward revision of the estimated oil reserves and the related increase in the discounted future net cash flow for the Waddell Ranch properties was primarily due to the increase in oil prices from 1993 to 1994. The upward revision of the estimated gas reserves for the Waddell Ranch properties was primarily due to the production response resulting from remedial work performed during 1994. The adjustment in the oil and gas reserves and the related discounted cash flow for the Texas Royalty properties are due to a revision in the estimate based on revised net production data received from Southland Royalty.
The following presents estimated future net revenue and the present value of estimated future net revenue, for each of the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 (in thousands except amounts per Unit):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the preceding tables for the Royalties were estimated from projections of reserves and revenue attributable to the combined Southland Royalty and Trust interests in the Waddell Ranch properties and Texas Royalty properties. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties were estimated by allocating to the Royalties a portion of the total estimated net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalties. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur.
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the original estimate. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered as the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
REGULATION
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") is primarily responsible for federal regulation of natural gas.
Natural Gas Regulation
The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal governmental regulation, including regulation of tariffs charged and various other matters, by FERC. The Natural Gas
Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 terminated federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas on January 1, 1993.
In 1992, FERC issued Orders Nos. 636 and 636-A, which generally opened access to interstate gas pipelines by requiring such pipelines to "unbundle" their transportation services and allow shippers to choose and pay for only the services they require, regardless of whether the shipper purchases gas from such pipelines or from other suppliers. These orders also require upstream pipelines to permit downstream pipelines to assign upstream capacity to their shippers and place analogous, unbundled access requirements on the downstream pipelines. Although these orders should generally have the effect of facilitating the transportation of gas produced from the properties from which the Royalties were carved, as well as to facilitate the direct access to end-user markets, the impact of these orders on marketing production from the properties from which the Royalties were carved cannot be predicted at this time.
While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the properties from which the Royalties were carved.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Other Regulation
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. The Trustee does not believe that compliance with these laws by the operating parties will have any material adverse effect on the Unit holders.
ITEM 3.