ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland’s (now Burlington’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. See “Item 1. Business” for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of Burlington (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by Burlington.
The Underlying Properties
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of northwestern New Mexico and 3,598 gross (1,708.1 net) wells, calculated on a well bore basis and not including multiple completions as separate wells. Of those wells, 13 gross (4.4 net) are oil wells and the balance are natural gas wells. Burlington reports that approximately 1,092 gross (609.4 net) of the wells are multiple completion wells resulting in a total of 4,608 gross (2,187.6 net) completions. Burlington has informed the Trust that all of the subject acreage is held by production, and even though it has not been fully developed in every formation, Burlington has classified all of such acreage as developed. Production from conventional natural gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations, ranging in depth from 1,500 to 8,000 feet. Additional production is attributable to coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation and an exploratory horizontal well in the Mancos Shale formation, which was completed on lands burdened by the Royalty in 2012. While Burlington will continue to assess its program of horizontal drilling on the Underlying Properties, it has not drilled additional horizontal wells and expects no new horizontal drilling activity in the San Juan Basin in 2016.
Coal seam natural gas constituted approximately 38% of our total natural gas production during 2015 and approximately 27% of our proved natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2015. The process of removing coal seam natural gas is often referred to as degasification or desorption. Millions of years ago, natural gas was generated in the process of coal formation and absorbed into the coal. Water later filled the natural fracture system. When the water is removed from the natural fracture system, reservoir pressure is lowered and the natural gas desorbs from the coal. The desorbed natural gas then flows through the fracture system and is produced at the well bore. The volume of formation water production typically declines with time and the natural gas production may increase for a period of time before starting to decline. Typically, the volumes of natural gas produced from a coal seam well decline more rapidly than those of conventional wells. In order to dispose of the formation water, surface facilities including pumping units are required. The price of coal seam natural gas is typically lower than the price of conventional natural gas. This is because the heating value of coal seam natural gas is much lower than that of conventional natural gas due to (a) ever increasing percentages of carbon dioxide in coal seam natural gas (carbon dioxide has no heating value), and (b) the absence of heavier hydrocarbons such as ethanes, propanes, and butanes, which are present in conventional natural gas. Furthermore, the production costs and processing fees for coal seam natural gas are typically higher than the processing fees for conventional natural gas due to the cost of extracting the carbon dioxide.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by Burlington.
2016 Capital Expenditure Budget
Burlington has informed the Trust that its budget for capital expenditures for the Underlying Properties in 2016 is estimated to be $4.8 million. Burlington reports that based on its actual capital requirements, the pace of regulatory approvals, the mix of projects and swings in the price of natural gas, the actual capital expenditures for 2016 are subject to change.
Burlington’s announced 2016 capital plan for the Underlying Properties anticipates capital expenditures of $4.8 million, of which $3.4 million is allocated to 20 facilities projects and $1.4 million is allocated to 20 facilities projects attributable to the budgets for prior years. Primarily due to depressed pricing for natural gas, Burlington has not allocated any capital expenditures for 2016 to its drilling program in the San Juan Basin. However, Burlington reported that it continually monitors natural gas prices and plans to restart the program at some point in the future, dependent upon such natural gas prices. Existing wells will continue to be operated.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
Production of oil and natural gas and related average sales prices attributable to each of the Underlying Properties and the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 2015, were as follows:
Production costs for natural gas attributable to the Underlying Properties for the three years ended December 31, 2015 were as follows:
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Royalty Income for a calendar year is based on the actual natural gas and oil production during the period beginning with November of the preceding calendar year through October of the current calendar year. Sales volumes attributable to the Royalty are determined by dividing the net profits by the Trust from the sale of oil and natural gas, respectively, by the prices received for sales of such volumes from the Underlying Properties, taking into consideration production taxes attributable to the Underlying Properties. Because the oil and natural gas sales attributable to the Royalty are based upon an allocation formula dependent on such factors as price and cost, including capital expenditures, the aggregate sales amounts from the Underlying Properties may not provide a meaningful comparison to sales attributable to the Royalty.
The fluctuations in annual natural gas production that have occurred during these three years generally resulted from changes in the demand for natural gas during that time, market conditions, and variances in capital spending to generate production from new and existing wells, as offset by the natural production decline curve. Also, production from the Underlying Properties is influenced by the line pressure of the natural gas gathering systems in the San Juan Basin. As noted above, oil and natural gas sales attributable to the Royalty are based on an allocation formula dependent on many factors, including oil and natural gas prices and capital expenditures.
Marketing
Natural gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas.
Natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties is processed at the: Chaco, Val Verde, Milagro, Ignacio or Kutz plants, all located in the San Juan Basin. All such natural gas, other than that processed at Kutz, is sold to Chevron USA, Inc. (“Chevron”) under a contract with Burlington dated April 1, 2015 that will terminate on March 31, 2016. Burlington has solicited requests for proposal for the purchase of the volumes covered by that contract beginning April 1, 2016.
Natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties and processed at Kutz was being sold under two separate contracts with EDF Trading North America, LLC (“EDF”) and New Mexico Gas Company, Inc. (“NMGC”). The NMGC contract for the sale of certain winter-only supplies of the Kutz natural gas is for a five-year term expiring March 31, 2017. Burlington’s contract with EDF terminates on March 31, 2016, and Burlington has solicited requests for proposal for the purchase of those volumes beginning April 1, 2016.
All three of the current natural gas purchase contracts provide for (i) the delivery of such natural gas at various delivery points through their respective termination dates; and (ii) the sale of such natural gas at prices that fluctuate in accordance with published indices for natural gas sold in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico.
Burlington contracts with Williams Four Corners, LLC (“WFC”) and Enterprise Field Services, LLC (“EFS”) for the gathering and processing of virtually all of the natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties. Four new contracts were entered into with WFC, each of which is effective for a term of 15 years,
which commenced April 1, 2010. Burlington has signed a similar agreement with EFS which was effective November 1, 2011 for a term of 15 years. Burlington has disclosed to the Trust a summary of that agreement which the Trust has reviewed with its consultants, subject to conditions of confidentiality.
The Trust is not a party to any of the purchase, gathering or processing contracts. As part of the 1996 settlement of litigation filed by the Trustee in 1992 against Burlington and Southland, the Trustee and Burlington established a formal protocol pursuant to which compliance auditors retained by the Trustee have access to Burlington’s books and records.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Proved Reserves
All of the Trust’s reserves are located in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. Total proved developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2015 were as follows:
(1) Proved reserves were calculated using prices equal to the twelve-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for each of the preceding twelve months, which were $2.59 per MMBtu (Henry Hub) of natural gas and $50.28 per Bbl (West Texas Intermediate) of oil. The adjusted volume-weighted average prices over the life of the properties were $2.29 per Mcf of gas and $36.48 per Bbl of oil.
(2) Since the Trust has a defined net overriding royalty interest, the Trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserves. Because Trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net overriding royalty interest.
Estimated quantities of proved developed oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Based on information provided by Burlington and analysis by our independent reserve engineer, there were no proved undeveloped reserves identified as of December 31, 2015, as compared to 2.2 Bcf of natural gas proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2014. The reduction in proved undeveloped reserves is due to negative price revisions attributed to the low commodity price outlook and reduced future development activity.
Internal Controls over Reserves Estimates
The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment. The Trust, however, does not have information that would be available to a company with oil and natural gas operations because detailed information is not generally available to owners of royalty interests. Given this, the
Trustee accumulates information and data provided by Burlington regarding the Royalty derived from the Underlying Properties and provides such information to Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”). CG&A extrapolates from such information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties based on its expertise in the oil and natural gas fields where the Underlying Properties are situated, as well as publicly available information. The Trust maintains internal controls and procedures applicable to reserve estimation which are reviewed annually and updated as required and reviews the reserve reports prepared by CG&A for reasonableness. The Trust’s internal controls and procedures regarding reserve estimates require proved reserves to be determined and disclosed in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance.
Third-Party Reserves
The Trust does not maintain an internal petroleum engineering department and instead relies upon CG&A for a qualified, independent report of estimated reserves. The Trust verifies the qualifications and credentials of CG&A to prepare reserve estimates on behalf of the Trust. The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 were prepared by CG&A. CG&A, whose firm registration number is, was founded in 1961 and is nationally recognized in the evaluation of oil and natural gas properties. The technical person at CG&A primarily responsible for overseeing the reserve estimate with respect to the Trust is Zane Meekins. Mr. Meekins has been a practicing petroleum engineering consultant since 1989, with over 28 years of practice experience in petroleum engineering. He is a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 71055). He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1987, summa cum laude, with a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering. CG&A and Mr. Meekins have indicated that they meet or exceed all requirements set forth in Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Regulation
General
Exploration for and production and sale of oil and natural gas are extensively regulated at the national, state, and local levels. These laws may govern a wide variety of matters, including allowable rates of production, transportation, marketing, pricing, well construction, water use, prevention of waste, waste disposal, pollution and protection of the environment. These laws, regulations and orders have in the past, and may again, restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist in the absence of such laws, regulations and orders.
Laws affecting the oil and natural gas industry and the distribution of its products are under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on operations. Numerous governmental departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry. Compliance with applicable laws is often difficult and costly, while non-compliance may result in substantial penalties.
Natural Gas
The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce, historically, have been regulated pursuant to several laws enacted by Congress and the regulations promulgated under these laws by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and its predecessor. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold in interstate commerce. Congress removed all price and non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas under the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act effective January 1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact controls in the future.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas
production, transportation and sales. In addition, FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach to natural gas sales pursued since 1993 by FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The ability to transport and sell petroleum products depends on pipelines that transport such products in interstate commerce and FERC regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service by such pipelines under the Interstate Commerce Act.
Environmental Regulation
General. Activities on the Underlying Properties are subject to existing stringent and complex federal, state and local laws (including case law) and regulations governing health, safety, environmental quality and pollution control. Failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations, however, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the operations on the Underlying Properties.
Cleanup. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, the operators of the Underlying Properties could be subject to strict, joint and several liability for the removal or remediation of property contamination, whether at a drill site or a waste disposal facility, even when the operators did not cause the contamination or their activities were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the actions were taken. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the “superfund” law, for example, imposes liability, regardless of fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons for releases into the environment of a “hazardous substance.” Liable persons may include the current or previous owner and operator of a site where a hazardous substance has been disposed and persons who arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance at a site. Under CERCLA and similar statutes, government authorities or private parties may take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment or sue responsible persons for the associated costs. In the course of operations, the working interest owner and/or the operator of Underlying Properties may have generated and may generate materials that could trigger cleanup liabilities. In addition, the Underlying Properties have produced oil and/or natural gas for many years, and previous operators may have disposed or released hydrocarbons, wastes or hazardous substances at the Underlying Properties. The operator of the Underlying Properties or the working interest owners may be responsible for all or part of the costs to clean up any such contamination. Although the Trust is not the operator of any Underlying Properties, or the owner of any working interest, its ownership of the Royalty could cause it to be responsible for all or part of such costs to the extent CERCLA or any similar statute imposes responsibility on such parties as “owners.”
Climate Change. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on those findings, the EPA has been adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). The EPA has already adopted rules under the CAA that, among other things, cover reductions in GHG emissions from motor vehicles, permits for certain large stationary sources of GHGs, monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified GHG emission sources, including oil and
natural gas exploration and production operations, and power plant performance standards that are designed to lead to the creation of additional state GHG control programs. In June 2013, moreover, President Obama unveiled a Presidential climate action plan designed to reduce emissions in the US of methane, carbon dioxide and other GHGs. In furtherance of that plan, the Obama Administration has launched a number of initiatives, including a Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions from the oil and natural gas industry. The Administration’s goal is to reduce methane emissions from the oil and natural gas industry by 40-45% by 2025 as compared to 2012 levels. The EPA therefore issued a proposed rule in the summer of 2015 that would set additional standards for methane and volatile organic compound emissions from oil and natural gas production sources, including hydraulically fractured oil wells, and natural gas processing and transmission sources. The EPA intends to issue a final rule in 2016. As another prong of the Administration’s methane strategy, the Bureau of Land Management has proposed standards for reducing venting and flaring on public lands. Various state governments and regional organizations comprising state governments similarly have enacted legislation and promulgated regulations restricting GHG emissions or promoting the use of renewable energy, and additional such measures are frequently under consideration. Although it is not possible at this time to estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions would impact operations on the Underlying Properties and Royalty Income, either directly or indirectly, any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require the operator of the Underlying Properties to incur new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain equipment and facilities, install new emission controls, acquire allowances to authorize GHG emissions, pay taxes related to GHG emissions or administer a GHG emissions program. Regulation of GHGs could also result in a reduction in demand for and production of oil and natural gas. Additionally, to the extent that unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, the Underlying Properties may be adversely affected to a greater degree than previously experienced.
Certain Tax Considerations
The classification of the Trust’s income for purposes of the passive loss rules may be important to a Unit Holder. As a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, royalty income such as that derived through the Trust will generally be treated as portfolio income that may not be offset or reduced by passive losses.
The Trustee has been informed that the New Mexico Oil and Gas Proceeds and Pass-Through Entity Withholding Tax Act (the “Withholding Tax Act”) requires remitters who pay certain oil and natural gas proceeds from production on New Mexico wells to withhold income taxes from such proceeds in the case of certain nonresident recipients. The Trustee, on advice of New Mexico counsel, has observed that “net profits interests,” such as the Royalty, and other types of interests, the extent of which cannot be determined with respect to a specific share of the oil and natural gas production, as well as amounts deducted from payments that are for expenses related to oil and natural gas production, are excluded from the withholding requirements of the Withholding Tax Act. Unit Holders are reminded to consult with their tax advisors regarding the applicability of New Mexico income tax to distributions received from the Trust by a Unit Holder.
ITEM 3.