ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland Royalty’s (now BROG’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. See Item 1. Business for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by BROG.
Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of
northwestern New Mexico and 3,967 gross (1,163 net) wells, calculated on a well bore basis and not including multiple completions as separate wells. Of those wells, seven gross (5.50 net) are oil wells and the balance are gas wells. BROG reports that approximately 794 of the wells are multiple completion wells resulting in a total of 4,761 completions. The Trust has inquired of BROG whether the acreage is developed or undeveloped. BROG has informed the Trust that all of the subject acreage is held by production, and even though it has not been fully developed in every formation, BROG has classified all of such acreage as developed. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland Royalty began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG.
Capital expenses of $33.6 million were included in calculating Royalty Income paid to the Trust in calendar year 2009, and included expenditures for the drilling and completion of 92 gross (17.18 net) conventional wells, 36 gross (19.55 net) coal seam wells, two gross (.84 net) conventional recompletions, and one gross (.85 net) coal seam recompletion. There were 11 gross (1.21 net) conventional wells in progress as of December 31, 2009. All of the wells were development wells. Approximately $25.5 million of capital expenditures covered 256 projects budgeted for 2009. Approximately $16.7 million of those costs were incurred in new drilling activity, which included 50 new wells operated by BROG and no new wells operated by third parties. The balance of the expenditures allocable to current projects was attributable to the workover of existing wells and the maintenance and improvement of production facilities.
The $33.6 million of capital expenses reported by BROG for 2009 also included approximately $8.1 million attributable to the capital budgets for prior years. This occurs because capital expenditures are deducted in calculating royalty income in the month they accrue, and projects within a given year’s budget often extend into subsequent years. Further, BROG’s accounting period for capital expenditures runs through November 30 of each calendar year, such that capital expenditures incurred in December of each year are actually accounted for as part of the following year’s capital expenditures. In addition, with respect to wells not operated by BROG, BROG’s share of capital expenditures may not actually be paid by it until the year or years after those expenses were incurred by the operator.
During 2008, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $27.0 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 118 gross (14.37 net) conventional wells and 40 gross (16.16 net) coal seam wells. There were 18 gross (5.51 net) conventional wells and four gross (1.48 net) coal seam wells in progress as of December 31, 2008. All of the wells were development wells.
During 2007, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $27.4 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 45 gross (21.47 net) conventional wells and 21 gross (15.31 net) coal seam wells. There were 10 gross (0.35 net) conventional wells and nine gross (4.52 net) coal seam wells in progress as of December 31, 2007. All of the wells were development wells.
BROG has informed the Trust that its budget for capital expenditures for the Underlying Properties in 2010 is estimated at $17.9 million. In addition, BROG estimates that during 2010 it will incur capital expenses in the amount of approximately $6.8 million attributable to the capital budgets for 2009 and prior years. BROG reports that based on its actual capital requirements, the pace of regulatory approvals, the mix of projects and swings in the price of natural gas, the actual capital expenditures for 2010 could range from $10 million to $45 million.
BROG anticipates 305 projects in 2010. Approximately $7.2 million of the $17.9 million budget is allocable to 43 new wells, including 41 wells scheduled to be dually completed in the Mesaverde and Dakota formations. BROG indicates that two of the new wells are projected to be drilled to Fruitland Coal or Pictured Cliffs formations. Approximately $3.8 million will be spent on workovers and facilities projects. Of the $6.8 million attributable to the budgets for prior years, approximately $4.4 million is allocable to new wells and the $2.4 million balance will be applied to miscellaneous capital projects such as workovers and operated facility projects. BROG mentioned that the possible implementation of new air quality rules and rules requiring the minimization of surface disturbances,
implementation of closed-loop systems for the disposal of drilling fluids and cuttings, and the restricted use of open reserve pits could reduce the number of projects due to increased compliance costs.
In February 2002, BROG informed the Trust that the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division (the “OCD”) had approved plans for 80-acre infill drilling of the Dakota formation in the San Juan Basin. In July 2003, the OCD approved 160-acre spacing in the Fruitland Coal formation. Eighty-acre spacing has been permitted in the Mesaverde formation since 1997. In 2008, BROG participated in a study involving a total of 15 test wells completed to the Mesaverde and/or Dakota formations, with some of the test wells drilled on a 40-acre spacing basis. BROG also participated in a pilot project for the drilling of two horizontal wells to the Dakota formation, neither of which were drilled on acreage burdened by the Royalty. In 2009, BROG drilled and completed a horizontal well in the Fruitland Coal formation on acreage that is burdened by the Royalty. BROG indicates that it will continue its program of horizontal drilling in 2010 as improved technology makes these wells more efficient and anticipated increases in production outweigh the increased costs incurred in the drilling and completion of horizontal wells as compared to more traditional vertical wells.
Oil and Gas Production
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Royalty Income for a calendar year is based on the actual gas and oil production during the period beginning with November of the preceding calendar year through October of the current calendar year. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 2009, were as follows:
Production volumes and costs attributable to the Underlying Properties for the three years ended December 31, 2009, were as follows:
Pricing Information
Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the Underlying Properties totaled 35,067,662 Mcf during 2009.
BROG previously entered into three contracts for the sale of all volumes of gas produced from the Underlying Properties to ChevronTexaco Natural Gas, a division of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (“ChevronTexaco”), Coral Energy Resources, L.P. (“Coral”), and PNM Gas Services (“PNM”), respectively. In March 2008, both ChevronTexaco and Coral notified BROG of their election to terminate their respective contracts effective March 31, 2009. Requests for proposal were circulated to potential purchasers of the packages of gas covered by the expiring contracts. Neither BROG nor PNM gave notice of termination with respect to the PNM contract and, by agreement of the parties, the term of that contract has been extended through at least March 31, 2011. On December 11, 2008, the New Mexico Public Regulatory Commission approved the sale of the gas utility assets of PNM to New Mexico Gas Company, Inc. (“NMGC”) and, effective as of January 30, 2009, the PNM contract was assigned to and assumed by NMGC.
BROG has now entered into four new contracts effective April 1, 2009, for the sale of all gas produced from the Underlying Properties other than the gas covered by the NMGC contract. The new purchasers are Chevron Natural Gas, a division of Chevron USA, Inc. (“Chevron”), Pacific Gas and Electric Company, BP Energy Company and Macquarie Cook Energy LLC. All four of the new contracts and the pre-existing NMGC contract provide for (i) the delivery of such gas at various delivery points through March 31, 2011 and from year-to-year thereafter, until terminated by either party on 12 months’ notice; and (ii) the sale of such gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with the published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. Although the primary term of the Chevron contract continues until March 31, 2011, a portion of that contract was set to expire on March 31, 2010. BROG has notified the Trust that it has reached agreement with Chevron for the sale of that gas such that all gas produced from the Underlying Properties is now contracted for sale, on the terms described above, through March 31, 2011.
BROG contracts with Williams Four Corners, LLC (“WFC”) and Enterprise Field Services, LLC (“EFS”) for the gathering and processing of virtually all of the gas produced from the Underlying Properties. Four new contracts have been entered into with WFC to be effective for terms of 15 years commencing April 1, 2010. The new contracts will consolidate and replace 18 prior contracts with WFC. BROG indicates that the new contracts are anticipated to provide some modest reductions in fees and also improved services, including more rigorous line pressure controls and the right to install compression facilities as needed.
However, BROG reports that it has been unable to reach agreement with EFS on gathering and production contracts, and it has joined a group of 51 others in initiating an administrative proceeding before the New Mexico Public Utility Commission, complaining, inter alia, that EFS is insisting upon above-market rates and refusing to agree to essential pressure control services. Gas is currently being gathered and processed by EFS on a month-to-month basis. The Trustee will continue to monitor this matter as it may relate to the Trust.
Confidentiality agreements with gatherers and purchasers of gas produced from the Underlying Properties prohibit public disclosure of certain terms and conditions of gas sales contracts with those entities, including specific pricing terms and gas receipt points. Such disclosure could compromise the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace for the sale of gas produced from the Underlying Properties.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following are definitions adopted by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Annual Report on Form 10-K:
“Estimated future net revenues” are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. See 22 CFR 210.4-10(c)(4)(A). “Estimated future net revenues” are sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “estimated future net cash flows.”
“Present value of estimated future net revenues” is computed using the estimated future net revenues (as defined above) and a discount rate of 10%.
“Proved oil and gas reserves” are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible - from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations - prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(22).
“Proved reserves” are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(2)(iii).
“Proved undeveloped reserves” or “PUDs” are undeveloped oil and gas reserves.
“Reasonable certainty” means (i) if deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered or (ii) if probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(24).
“Reserves” are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(26).
“Undeveloped oil and gas reserves” are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(31).
The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”). CG&A, whose firm registration number is, was founded in 1961 and is a worldwide leader in the evaluation of oil and gas properties. The technical person at CG&A primarily responsible for overseeing the reserve estimate with respect to the Trust is Zane Meekins. Mr. Meekins has been a practicing petroleum engineering consultant since 1989, with over 22 years of practice experience in petroleum engineering. He is a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 71055). He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1987, summa cum laude, with a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering. CG&A and Mr. Meekins have indicated that they meet or exceed all requirements set forth in Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 2006, to December 31, 2009, (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in thousands):
A summary of estimated quantities by geographic area for proved oil and gas reserves and undeveloped oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009 were as follows (in thousands):
Based on information provided by BROG, there were 193 PUDs identified as of December 31, 2008, as compared to 139 as of December 31, 2009. Due to changes in applicable federal regulations, the current estimate no longer includes 59 PUDs identified but not drilled within five years from date of booking. The current estimate has also been adjusted to take into account the elimination of PUDs no longer deemed commercial due to declines in the market price of natural gas, as well as new PUDs identified during the year and those converted to proved developed, all in the ordinary course of business. See Item 2. Properties, above, for a discussion of historical and budgeted investment and progress to convert PUDs to proved developed.
Generally, the calculation of oil and gas reserves takes into account a comparison of the value of the oil or gas to the cost of producing those minerals, in an attempt to cause minerals in the ground to be included in reserve estimates only to the extent that the anticipated costs of production will be exceeded by the anticipated sales revenue. Accordingly, an increase in sales price and/or a decrease in production cost can itself result in an increase in estimated reserves and declining prices and/or increasing costs can result in reserves reported at less than the physical volumes actually thought to exist. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are estimated by applying annual average prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise’s proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) of developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables. Accordingly, under the allocation method used to derive the Trust’s quantity of proved reserves, changes in prices will result in changes in quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimated future net revenues.
The 2009, 2008 and 2007 changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves are as follows (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the tables above for the Royalty were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined BROG and Trust interests. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty were derived from estimates by allocating to the Royalty a portion of the total net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalty. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur. The future net cash flows were determined without regard to future federal income tax credits, if any, available to production from coal seam wells.
For 2009, $3.49 per Mcf of gas and $51.98 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. As required under recent regulatory changes, these prices are based on a 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing of $3.87 per MMBtu of NYMEX natural gas and $61.18 per Bbl of West Texas Intermediate oil. The downward revision in reserve quantities for 2009 is due primarily to lower average gas prices during 2009 as compared to December 2008. But note that due to changes in applicable federal regulations as to the reporting of reserves, the formula for 2009 is based on average annual prices, while the formula employed in 2008 and prior years is based upon the December 31 spot price. Accordingly, in this transition year, the comparison of annual prices may be less meaningful.
The December 31, 2008 price of $4.99 per Mcf of gas and $37.76 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue. The downward revision in reserve quantities for 2008 was due primarily to lower gas prices in December 2008 as compared to December 2007, in addition to increased lease operating expenses and reduced gas and oil production.
The December 31, 2007 price of $7.14 per Mcf of gas and $87.22 per Bbl of oil were used in determining future net revenue.
The following presents estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Royalty for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands, except amounts per Unit):
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the above estimates. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would require the analysis of additional parameters. Reserve estimates were not filed with any Federal authority or agency other than the SEC.
Regulation
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that BROG can produce and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which BROG can drill.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce, historically, have been regulated pursuant to several laws enacted by Congress and the regulations promulgated under these laws by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and its predecessor. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which gas could be sold. Congress removed all non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact price controls in the future.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation and sales. In addition, FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach pursued over the last decade by FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The ability to transport and sell petroleum products are dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act. Certain regulations implemented by FERC in recent years could result in an increase in the cost of transportation service on certain petroleum products pipelines.
Section 45 Tax Credit
Sales of gas production from certain coal seam wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993, qualified for federal income tax credits under Section 29 (now Section 45K) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended, the “Code”) through 2002 but not thereafter. Accordingly, under present law, the Trust’s production and sale of gas from coal seam wells does not qualify for tax credit under Section 45K of the Code (the “Section 45 Tax Credit”). Congress has at various times since 2002 considered energy legislation, including provisions to reinstate the Section 45 Tax Credit in various ways and to various extents, but no legislation that would qualify the Trust’s current production for such credit has been enacted. For example, in February 2009, new energy tax legislation was enacted
which, among other things, modified the Section 45 Tax Credit in several respects, but did not extend the credit for production from coal seam wells. No prediction can be made as to what future tax legislation affecting Section 45K of the Code may be proposed or enacted or, if enacted, its impact, if any, on the Trust and the Unit Holders.
Passive Loss Rules
The classification of the Trust’s income for purposes of the passive loss rules may be important to a Unit Holder. As a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, royalty income such as that derived through the Trust will generally be treated as portfolio income that may not be offset or reduced by passive losses.
Climate Change Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with federal, state and local regulations and laws regarding the affects of climate change. These laws and regulations have impacted, and will in the future continue to impact, the production, gathering, marketing and transportation of oil and natural gas.
Other Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity.
ITEM 3.