ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The 75% net overriding royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland Royalty's (now BROG's) working interest and royalty interests in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. References below to "gross" wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to "net" are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished the Trustee by BROG.
PRODUCING ACREAGE, WELLS AND DRILLING
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests and royalty interests in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval counties. Based upon information received from the Trust's independent petroleum engineers, the Trust properties contain 3,038 gross (909 net) economic wells, including dual completions. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesa Verde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland Royalty began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland formation. For additional information concerning coal seam gas, the "Description of the Properties" section of the Trust's Annual Report to security holders for the year ended December 31, 1997, is herein incorporated by reference.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG.
During 1997, BROG incurred approximately $7.2 million of capital expenditures for the drilling and completion of 64 gross (3.53 net) conventional wells, recompletion of 14 gross (5.4 net) conventional wells, drilling and completion of 1 gross (.84 net) coal seam well, and 21 gross (2.32 net) coal seam recavitations. There were 5 (1.22 net) new conventional wells, 3 (1.08 net) conventional recompletions, 11 gross (.42 net) coal seam recompletions, 5 (.20 net) coal seam recavitations, and 1 (.04 net) coal seam well in progress as of December 31, 1997. During 1996, there were 14 gross (1.50 net) conventional wells completed. There was 1 gross (.05 net) coal seam well and 17 gross (1.96 net) conventional wells in progress at December 31, 1996. There were 4 gross (.16 net) conventional wells recompleted as coal seam wells, 17 gross (5.63 net) coal seam wells recavitated and 9 gross (5.93 net) conventional wells recompleted through December 31, 1996.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related distribution is received. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 1997 were as follows:
PRICING INFORMATION
Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to "Regulation" for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the properties from which the Royalty was carved totaled 41,948,567 Mcf during 1997.
Prior to 1985, sales contracts with El Paso, Sunterra Gas Gathering Company, formerly Southern Union Gathering Company ("Sunterra"), and Northwest Pipeline Company ("Northwest") generally provided for payment of the maximum lawful prices permitted under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA"). Sunterra is a subsidiary of Public Service Company of New Mexico ("PNM").
In 1985, Sunterra sold its gas gathering, transportation and distribution facilities in New Mexico and its rights as purchaser under its San Juan Basin gas contracts to PNM. Under such contracts, gas prices were to be redetermined annually on April 1 to an average of the highest price levels being paid in New Mexico. Also in 1985, PNM announced its intention to attempt to renegotiate the gas contracts with gas producers in the San Juan Basin, including Southland Royalty, with its objective being to reduce the overall price for such gas. During the course of these negotiations PNM unilaterally reduced the price paid for gas sales below the level required by the gas contracts.
In May 1988, PNM filed suit in the United States District Court in New Mexico seeking (i) a declaratory judgment that PNM had no prior liability for gas purchased at prices below the contract prices and (ii) a permanent injunction prohibiting future claims against PNM for gas purchases at prices below the contract prices. PNM claimed the pricing provisions were the result of a conspiracy in violation of antitrust laws. Southland Royalty counter- claimed against PNM alleging breach of both the pricing provisions and the minimum take requirements of the gas purchase contracts. In June 1988, Southland Royalty filed a separate breach of contract suit in a State District Court in Harris County, Texas on these same claims against PNM alleging damages in excess of $40 million. During 1988, both El Paso and Northwest abandoned the Natural Gas Act ("NGA") service obligation to purchase gas in accordance with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") Order 490 and 490-A.
Southland Royalty informed the Trust that effective March 1, 1990 a settlement of this litigation was reached. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Southland Royalty released all claims that it had against PNM, Sunterra and Gas Company of New Mexico (a division of PNM) ("Gas Company")under the intrastate gas purchase contracts, as well as claims it held on gas sold pursuant to the interstate contracts discussed previously. PNM and Sunterra agreed to pay Southland Royalty $54.5 million in installments. An initial payment of $18,166,000 was paid in connection with the execution of the settlement agreement. The second payment of $18,167,000 was paid on March 1, 1991. The remaining balance of $18,167,000 was paid on March 2, 1992 plus interest of $1,635,300.
Southland Royalty distributed to the Trust 75% (the amount of its net overriding royalty interest) of the $49,435,300 in cash received in settlement that it attributed to past and future pricing claims under the intrastate and interstate gas purchase contracts, less amounts attributed by Southland Royalty to royalties and production taxes. Southland Royalty retained a total of $6,700,000 from the settlement proceeds that it attributed to quantity claims.
Because of the difficulty in determining the exact value of consideration received under the renegotiated contracts referred to below, Southland Royalty informed the Trust that it would not attribute value to quantity claims under the renegotiated contracts and the Trust would receive 75% (the amount of its net overriding royalty interest) of any value that ultimately inured to those contracts.
Southland Royalty also informed the Trust that the settlement also provided for new gas purchase agreements replacing the then current intrastate and interstate gas purchase agreements. Southland Royalty entered into five-year gas purchase, gas processing and gas gathering agreements with Sunterra and gas Company that were effective as of July 1, 1990. The new contracts applied to all lands previously dedicated to Sunterra and Gas Company for first sales of natural gas sold into interstate or intrastate markets, except that the new gas purchase contracts exclude all gas produced and sold from coal seam wells. The new gas purchase contracts provided for purchase rights and obligations during the winter heating season only. During the remainder of the year, Southland Royalty through MOTI could market the gas through any arrangements it deemed advisable. Under the new gas contracts, Southland Royalty would receive prices, inclusive of severance taxes, ranging from approximately $2.35 per month MMBtu to $3.37 per MMBtu over the life of the contracts. The contracts provided for certain "take-or-pay obligations" if specified quantities of gas (66% of the maximum volume that can be produced into the gathering system against the Assumed Working Pressure of a purchase period and lawfully made available for sale to the gas purchaser each day during a purchase period) are not taken by the purchasers during the winter heating season. Should the required minimum not be taken, then a reservation fee was to be paid to Southland Royalty to be determined by multiplying 20% of the price of gas for the applicable time period times the deficiency for the purchase period. See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements of the Trust's Annual Report to security holders for the year ended December 31, 1997 for further discussion of this settlement and its impact upon the Trust.
The gas gathering contract provided for transportation of gas not taken by Sunterra and Gas Company during the winter heating season and during the remainder of the year. The gas processing agreement provided that Southland Royalty received 80% of the plant products derived from processing the gas. The processing company was to retain the remaining 20% as its fee for processing the gas.
In 1991, due to the low level of natural gas prices, Sunterra informed Southland Royalty that it would not take any significant volume of gas during the 1991-1992 winter heating season and would simply pay the "take or pay obligation" amount. Consequently, the majority of the wells subject to the contracts would remain shut-in during the winter heating season. Southland Royalty informed the Trustee that, in an attempt to maximize production and revenue from the Trust properties, it had entered into an agreement that would amend the terms of the contracts discussed above for only the 1991-1992 winter heating season. The amendment provided that Sunterra and gas Company could purchase approximately 35% of the contract provided take levels at a wellhead price slightly higher than the spot wellhead index price for the San Juan Basin. Any gas purchased by Sunterra or Gas Company above this level would average $2.63 per MMBtu. Southland Royalty would be free to market the remaining deliverable gas to other purchasers. During 1992 Gas Company and Sunterra purchased 702,629 Mcf and 3,241,500 Mcf, respectively, at average prices of $2.25 and $1.98 per Mcf, respectively, from the properties from which the Royalty was carved.
Southland Royalty informed the Trust that a one year contract amendment was agreed to with Gas Company and Sunterra for the 1992-1993 winter heating season. Gas Company and Sunterra were required to purchase a minimum of 11,500 MMBtu per day under the intrastate contract and a minimum of 16,550 MMBtu per day under the interstate contracts at the contract specified prices of $2.695 per MMBtu and $2.94 per MMBtu, respectively. A portion of the excess gas up to 9,000 MMBtu per day for the intrastate contracts and 12,000 MMBtu per day for the interstate contracts was released for spot sales, with a recall provision at an average contract price. Southland Royalty waived any claims for deficiency payments under the reservation fees.
Southland Royalty informed the Trust that a similar amendment was entered into for the 1993-1994 winter heating season. Gas Company and Sunterra were required to purchase a minimum of 1,696,485 MMBtu with an average minimum of 5,100 MMBtu per day under the intrastate contracts between November 1, 1993 and March 1994 and a minimum of 1,401,570 MMBtu with an average minimum of 7,000 MMBtu per day under the interstate contract between December 1, 1993 and February 28, 1994 at the contract specified prices of $2.884 per MMBtu and$3.146 per MMBtu, respectively. All remaining intrastate gas in excess of 11,300 MMBtu per day during the period November 1, 1993 and through March 31,1994 and all remaining interstate gas in excess of 15,600 MMBtu per day during the period December 1, 1993 through February 28, 1994 was released for spot sales, with a recall provision at a price during the months of November 1993 and March 1994 of $2.884 per MMBtu and $3.015 per MMBtu for the months December 1993, January 1994, and February 1994.
Southland Royalty informed the Trust that an amendment was also entered into for the 1994-1995 winter heating season. Gas Company and Sunterra were required to purchase, at the wellhead, an average volume of 10,529 MMBtu per day at $2.884 per MMBtu for the period beginning November 1, 1994 and ended March 31, 1995 and an additional 14,900 MMBtu per day at $3.146 per MMBtu for the period beginning December 1, 1994 and ended February 28, 1995. Gas Company and Sunterra were granted a make-up period of four months beginning April 1,1995 to fulfill this purchase obligation. Gas Company and Sunterra were also granted recall rights on volumes up to 15,000 MMBtu per day at the tailgate of the Kutz and Lybrook plants, provided they nominated the full contract volume specified above. The price for recall was to be the average of the first and second issues of the Inside FERC EPNG SJ Index.
The Trust was informed that effective July 1, 1995, Williams Field Services ("Williams") purchased the Kutz and Lybrook processing plants and the gathering systems behind these plants which were owned by Sunterra, Gas Company and Sunterra Gas Processing Company ("SGPC") and that new gathering and processing agreements with Williams were entered into which contain acceptable rates, terms and conditions. The new agreements replaced the then current gathering and processing agreements with Gas Company, Sunterra and SGPC effective on the closing date of the sale of these facilities to Williams.
On September 4, 1996, the Trustee announced the settlement of the litigation (the "Litigation") filed by the Trustee against BROG and Southland Royalty Company. The Litigation, which was filed in the state district court of Santa Fe County, New Mexico, Cause No. SF 94-1982(c), was dismissed on September 12,1996.
Agreement was reached, among other things, regarding marketing arrangements for the sale of Trust gas, oil and natural gas liquids products going forward as follows:
(i) BROG's pre-existing contract with a third-party purchaser covering baseload gas volumes in the firm amount of 45,000 MMBtus/day was to remain effective for a period of one year from July 1, 1996. The remaining volumes of Trust gas were marketed by an independent marketer, El Paso Energy Marketing Company ("El Paso"), a subsidiary of El Paso Energy Corporation, beginning October 1, 1996. BROG agreed that subsequent contracts for the sale of Trust gas would require the written approval of an independent gas marketing consultant acceptable to the Trust;
(ii) BROG will continue to market the Trust oil and natural gas liquids but will remit to the Trust actual proceeds from such sales. BROG will no longer use posted prices as the basis for calculating proceeds to the Trust nor make a deduction for marketing fees associated with sales of oil or natural gas liquids products; and
(iii) The Trust has retained access to BROG's current gas transportation, gathering, processing and treating agreements with third parties through the remainder or their primary terms. Additionally, El Paso could utilize BROG's eastern transportation agreement for delivery from the San Juan Basin on the El Paso Natural Gas Company pipeline to pipelines in West Texas of up to 13,333 MMBtu's/day of gas produced from Trust properties for a period of one year commencing October 1, 1996.
The gas purchase contracts described in subparagraph (i), above, were continued, by agreement of the parties until December 31, 1997. Effective January 1, 1998, all volumes of Trust gas became subject to the terms of a Natural Gas Sales and Purchase Contract between BROG and El Paso. That contract is for a term of two years through and including December 31, 1999 and provides for the sale of Trust gas at prices which will fluctuate in accordance with published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. BROG entered into the contract with El Paso after soliciting and receiving competitive bids in late 1997 from six major gas marketing firms to market and/or purchase the Trust gas. While it is impossible to predict the exact economic value of gas contracts, the Trust has been advised by its independent gas marketing consultant that the contract with El Paso should provide for the average highest sales price for natural gas in the San Juan Basin over the two-year term of the contract.
See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements of the Trust's Annual Report to securityholders for the year ended December 31, 1997 for further discussion of this settlement and its impact on the Trust.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following are definitions adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Item:
"Proved reserves" are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which, upon analysis of geological and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
"Proved developed reserves" are those proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
"Proved undeveloped reserves" are those proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
"Estimated future net revenues" are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. "Estimated future net revenues" are sometimes referred to herein as "estimated future net cash flows."
"Present value of estimated future net revenues" is computed using the estimated future net revenues and a discount rate of 10%.
The independent petroleum engineers' reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997 were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1997 (in thousands):
Generally, the calculation of oil and gas reserves takes into account a comparison of the value of the oil or gas to the cost of producing those minerals, in an attempt to cause minerals in the ground to be included in reserve estimates only to the extent that the anticipated costs of production will be exceeded by the anticipated sales revenue. Accordingly, an increase in sales price and/or a decrease in production cost can itself result in an increase in estimated reserves and declining prices and/or increasing costs can result in reserves reported at less than the physical volumes actually thought to exist. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are estimated by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise's proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables. Accordingly, under the allocation method used to derive the Trust's quantity of proved reserves, changes in prices will result in changes in quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimated future net revenues.
The 1997, 1996 and 1995 changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves discounted at 10% are as follows (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the tables above for the Royalty were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined BROG and Trust interests. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty were derived from estimates by allocating to the Royalty a portion of the total net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalty. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur. The future net cash flows were determined without regard to future federal income tax credits available to production from coal seam wells.
December average prices of $2.21 per Mcf of conventional gas, $1.55 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $15.97 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 1997, in determining future net revenue. The downward revision is primarily due to significantly lower gas prices in December 1997 as compared to December 1996.
December average prices of $4.04 per Mcf of conventional gas, $2.84 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $23.18 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 1996, in determining future net revenue. The upward revision is primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in December 1996.
December average prices of $1.36 per Mcf of conventional gas, $0.85 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $17.24 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 1995, in determining future net revenue.
The following presents estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Royalty for each of the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 (in thousands except amounts per Unit):
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the above estimates. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered as the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
REGULATION
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring or natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that BROG can produce and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which BROG can drill.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") is primarily responsible for federal regulation of natural gas. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal governmental regulation, including regulation of transportation and storage tariffs and various other matters, by FERC. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 ("Decontrol Act") terminated federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas on January 1, 1993. Consequently, sales of natural gas may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions. The FERC's jurisdiction over natural gas transportation and storage was unaffected by the Decontrol Act.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and the FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation, and sales. In addition, the FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to the FERC's jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry. The ultimate impact of the rules and regulations issued by the FERC since 1985 cannot be predicted. In addition, many aspects of these regulatory developments have not become final but are still pending judicial and FERC final decisions.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Effective as of January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil that could increase the cost of transporting oil to the purchaser. The Trust is not able to predict what effect, if any, these regulations will have on it, but other factors being equal, the regulations may tend to increase transportation costs or reduce wellhead prices for crude oil.
Coal Seam Tax Credit
The Trust began receiving royalty income from coal seam wells beginning in 1989. Under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code, production from coal seam gas wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993, qualifies for the federal income tax credit for producing non-conventional fuels. Production from wells drilled after December 31, 1979 but prior to January 1, 1993, to a formation beneath qualifying coal seam formation which are later completed into such formation also qualifies for the tax credit. This tax credit for 1997 was approximately $1.05 per MMBtu and applies to production through the year 2002. Each Unitholder must determine his pro rata share
of such production based upon the number of Units owned during each month of the year and apply the tax credit against his own income tax liability, but such credit may not reduce his regular liability (after the foreign tax credit and certain other nonrefundable credits) below his tentative minimum tax. Section 29 also provides that any amount of Section 29 credit disallowed for the tax year solely because of this limitation will increase his credit for prior year minimum tax liability, which may be carried forward indefinitely as a credit against the taxpayer's regular tax liability, subject, however, to the limitations described in the preceding sentence. There is no provision for the carryback or carryforward of the Section 29 credit in any other circumstances.
Other Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity.
ITEM 3.