Item 2.
Properties
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland Royalty’s (now BROG’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico (the “Underlying Properties”). See “Item 1. Business” for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres.
Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by BROG.
Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling
The Underlying Properties consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of northwestern New Mexico and 3,946 gross (1,170 net) economic wells, including dual completions. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland Royalty began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation.
The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG.
In February, 2003, BROG announced an estimated capital budget for the Underlying Properties of approximately $14.1 million. During the year, the estimate was initially increased to $18.0 million, and then ultimately increased to approximately $21.1 million. BROG’s capital plan for the Underlying Properties for 2003 estimated 351 projects, including the drilling of 38 new wells to be operated by BROG and 26 wells to be operated by third parties. In 2003, BROG actually participated in 509 projects, including 58 new wells operated by BROG and 10 wells operated by third parties. BROG reported that the swings in the budget estimates related in large part to whether and when BROG was successful in obtaining the necessary governmental and landowner approvals to drill on a well-by-well basis.
The aggregate capital expenditures reported by BROG in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust for 2003 include approximately $6.5 million attributable to the capital budgets for prior years. This occurs because projects within a given year’s budget may extend into subsequent years, with capital expenditures attributable to those projects used in calculating distributable income to the Trust in those subsequent years. Further, BROG’s accounting period for capital expenditures runs through November 30 of each calendar year, such that capital expenditures incurred in December of each year are actually accounted for as part of the following year’s capital expenditures. In addition, with respect to wells not operated by BROG, BROG’s share of capital expenditures may not actually be paid by it until the year or years after those expenses were incurred by the operator. Capital expenditures of approximately
$14.6 million for 2003 budgeted projects were used in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust in calendar year 2003, and approximately $5.3 million in capital expenditures were used in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust for January and February 2004. Therefore, an additional approximately $1.2 million in capital expenditures for 2003 projects remains to be spent.
During 2003, in calculating the net proceeds to the Trust, BROG deducted approximately $20.6 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 44 gross (15.36 net) conventional wells, recompletion of two gross (.07 net) conventional wells, three gross (.94 net) miscellaneous capital projects, 29 gross (21.55 net) restimulations, 49 gross (3.22 net) conventional payadds, 53 gross (16.98 net) coal seam wells, nine gross (1.6 net) coal seam recompletions, two gross (.92 net) coal seam recavitations, one gross (.04 net) coal seam restimulation, and two gross (.88 net) miscellaneous coal seam capital projects and facilities maintenance. There were 32 gross (7.0 net) new conventional wells, recompletion of 15 gross (3.72 net) conventional wells, 22 gross (9.11 net) conventional well restimulations, 14 gross (3.65 net) conventional payadds, 54 gross (14.43 net) coal seam wells, six gross (1.62 net) coal seam recompletions, one gross (.002 net) recavitation, and six gross (.20 net) miscellaneous coal seam capital projects in progress as of December 31, 2003. A payadd is the completion of an additional productive interval in an existing completed zone in a well.
During 2002, in calculating the net proceeds to the Trust, BROG deducted approximately $21.5 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 98 gross (30.05 net) conventional wells, recompletion of 36 gross (14.44 net) conventional wells, 13 gross (2.21 net) miscellaneous capital projects, one gross (.82 net) restimulation, one gross (.05 net) payadd, 16 gross (5.42 net) coal seam wells, 11 gross (1.45 net) miscellaneous coal seam capital projects, 14 gross (5.77 net) coal seam recompletions, five gross (.98 net) coal seam recavitations, and three gross (.01 net) coal seam restimulations and facilities maintenance. There were 61 gross (24.49 net) new conventional wells, 20 gross (4.69 net) conventional well recompletions, 65 gross (19.82 net) miscellaneous conventional capital projects, four gross (1.41 net) coal seam wells, two gross (.99 net) coal seam recompletions, and five gross (1.72 net) miscellaneous coal seam capital projects in progress as of December 31, 2002.
BROG has informed the Trust that its projections for capital expenditures for the Underlying Properties in 2004 is estimated at $18.5 million. Approximately $11.7 million of that budget is allocable to new wells, with approximately 61% of those wells projected to be drilled to formations producing coal seam gas as distinguished from conventional gas, and $6.8 million is to be expended in working over existing wells and in the maintenance and improvement of production facilities. BROG reports that based on its actual capital requirements, its mix of projects and swings in the price of natural gas, the actual capital expenditures for 2004 could range from $15 million to $25 million. BROG anticipates 441 projects, including the drilling of 103 new wells to be operated by BROG and 29 wells to be operated by third parties. Of the new BROG operated wells, 30 are projected to be conventional wells completed to the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde, and/or Dakota formations, and the remaining 73 are projected as coal seam gas wells to be completed in the Fruitland Coal formation. A total of 22 of the wells operated by third parties are projected to be conventional wells and the remaining seven are to be coal seam wells.
In February 2002, BROG informed the Trust that the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division had approved plans for 80-acre infill drilling of the Dakota formation in the San Juan Basin. In July 2003, the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division approved 160-acre spacing in the Fruitland Coal formation. BROG informed the Trust that, principally as a result of this approval, its budget for 2004 reflected a continued focus on the Fruitland Coal formation. Eighty-acre spacing has been permitted in the Mesaverde formation since 1997.
BROG indicates its budget for 2004 reflects continued significant development of conventional formations, including infill drilling to the Mesaverde and Dakota formations, development of the Fruitland Coal formation and multiple formation completions. A majority of the new wells for 2004 are projected to be drilled on Underlying Properties in which the fractional working interest included in the Underlying
Properties is relatively low, but many of the recompletions and restimulations are scheduled on properties in which such working interest is relatively high.
Oil and Gas Production
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 2003 were as follows:
Pricing Information
Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the Underlying Properties totaled 45,202,576 Mcf during 2003.
On September 4, 1996, the Trustee announced a settlement of litigation filed by the Trustee against BROG and Southland Royalty Company. In the settlement, agreement was reached, among other things, regarding marketing arrangements for the sale of those gas, oil and natural gas liquids products from the Underlying Properties going forward as follows:
(i) BROG agreed that all subsequent contracts for the sale of gas from the Underlying Properties would require the written approval of an independent gas marketing consultant acceptable to the Trust;
(ii) BROG will continue to market the oil and natural gas liquids from the Underlying Properties but will make payments to the Trust based on actual proceeds from such sales, and BROG will no longer use posted prices as the basis for calculating proceeds to the Trust nor make a deduction for marketing fees associated with sales of oil or natural gas liquids products; and
(iii) The independent marketer of the gas from the Underlying Properties is entitled to use of BROG’s current gas transportation, gathering, processing and treating agreements with third parties, at least through the remainder of their primary terms.
See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements of the Trust’s Annual Report to security holders for the year ended December 31, 2003 for further discussion of this settlement and its impact on the Trust.
BROG has entered into two contracts for the sale of all volumes of gas produced from the Underlying Properties. These contracts provide for (i) the sale of such gas in two packages to Duke Energy and Marketing, L.L.C. and PNM Gas Services, respectively, (ii) the delivery of such gas at various delivery points through March 31, 2005, and (iii) the sale of such gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. Effective January 1, 2004, the rights and obligations of Duke Energy and Marketing, L.L.C. were assumed by ConocoPhillips Company pursuant to an Assignment and Novation Agreement.
Confidentiality agreements with purchasers of gas produced from the Underlying Properties prohibit public disclosure of certain terms and conditions of gas sales contracts with those entities, including specific pricing terms, gas receipt points, etc. Such disclosure could compromise the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace for the sale of gas produced from the Underlying Properties.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following are definitions adopted by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Form 10-K:
“Estimated future net revenues” are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. “Estimated future net revenues” are sometimes referred to in this Form 10-K as “estimated future net cash flows.”
“Present value of estimated future net revenues” is computed using the estimated future net revenues (as defined above) and a discount rate of 10%.
“Proved reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which, upon analysis of geological and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
“Proved developed reserves” are those proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
“Proved undeveloped reserves” are those proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 2000 to December 31, 2003 (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved developed reserves of crude oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows (in thousands):
Generally, the calculation of oil and gas reserves takes into account a comparison of the value of the oil or gas to the cost of producing those minerals, in an attempt to cause minerals in the ground to be included in reserve estimates only to the extent that the anticipated costs of production will be exceeded by the anticipated sales revenue. Accordingly, an increase in sales price and/or a decrease in production cost can itself result in an increase in estimated reserves and declining prices and/or increasing costs can result in reserves reported at less than the physical volumes actually thought to exist. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are estimated by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise’s proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables. Accordingly, under the allocation method used to derive the Trust’s quantity of proved reserves, changes in prices will result in changes in quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and estimated future net revenues.
The 2003, 2002 and 2001 changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves discounted at 10% are as follows (in thousands):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the tables above for the Royalty were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined BROG and Trust interests. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty were derived from estimates by allocating to the Royalty a portion of the total net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalty. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur. The future net cash flows were determined without regard to future federal income tax credits available to production from coal seam wells.
December average prices of $4.47 per Mcf of conventional gas, $3.31 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $28.12 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 2003, in determining future net revenue. The upward revision in reserve quantities for 2003 as compared to 2002 is due in part to higher oil and gas prices in December 2003 as compared to December 2002.
December average prices of $3.75 per Mcf of conventional gas, $2.80 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $24.88 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 2002, in determining future net revenue. The upward revision in reserve quantities for 2002 as compared to 2001 is primarily due to significantly higher oil and gas prices in December 2002 as compared to December 2001.
December average prices of $1.96 per Mcf of conventional gas, $1.42 per Mcf of coal seam gas and $15.79 per Bbl of oil were used at December 31, 2001, in determining future net revenue.
The following presents estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Royalty for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except amounts per Unit):
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the above estimates. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would require the analysis of additional parameters.
Regulation
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that BROG can produce and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which BROG can drill.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce, historically, have been regulated pursuant to several laws enacted by Congress and the regulations promulgated under these laws by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and its predecessor. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which gas could be sold. Congress removed all non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact price controls in the future.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several
major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation and sales. In addition, FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach pursued over the last decade by FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The ability to transport and sell petroleum products are dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act. Certain regulations implemented by FERC in recent years could result in an increase in the cost of transportation service on certain petroleum products pipelines.
Section 29 Tax Credit
Sales of production from coal seam wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993, qualified for federal income tax credits through 2002. Although both houses of Congress are presently considering energy legislation, including provisions to extend or reinstate the Section 29 credit in various ways, whether such provisions will be enacted into law, and if so, the effect thereof on the Trust and the Unit Holders is, at present, unknown. Even though the Section 29 credit does not apply to qualified fuel sold in 2003, a Section 29 credit (at the rate applicable in 2002) may apply to proceeds received in 2003 for qualified fuel sold in 2002 and earlier years for Unit Holders that utilize the cash method of tax accounting. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter ruling to another taxpayer to the effect that cash method taxpayers may claim the Section 29 credit in a later year for sales of qualified fuel in an earlier year where the proceeds from such sales are received in the later year. Because a private letter ruling may be relied on only by the taxpayer who requested the ruling, the Trust applied for a similar ruling. Tax counsel to the Trust has been informed that the Internal Revenue Service intends to issue a Revenue Procedure in the near future allowing a cash basis taxpayer to report the Section 29 credit in either the year the qualifying production is sold or the year the income is received, provided that the taxpayer is consistent in its treatment from year to year and that, accordingly, it will not issue private letter rulings on this question. No assurance can be given, however, whether, or if so when, such a Revenue Procedure will be issued.
To benefit from the credit in 2003, each cash basis Unit Holder must determine from the tax information the Unit Holder received from the Trust, its pro rata share of qualifying production of the Trust sold before January 1, 2003, based upon the number of Units owned during each month of the year, and the amount of available credit per MMbtu for the year, and then apply the tax credit against the Unit Holder’s own income tax liability, but such credit could not reduce the Unit Holder’s regular tax liability (after the foreign tax credit and certain other nonrefundable credits) below his tentative minimum tax. Section 29 also provides that any amount of Section 29 credit disallowed for the tax year solely because of this limitation will increase a taxpayer’s credit for prior year minimum tax liability, which may be carried forward indefinitely as a credit against the taxpayer’s regular tax liability, subject, however, to the limitations described in the preceding sentence. There is no provision for the carryback or carryforward of the Section 29 credit in any other circumstance.
BROG has historically provided to the Trust summary Section 29 tax credit information related to Trust properties. In 1999, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit upheld the position of the Internal Revenue Service and the Tax Court that nonconventional fuel such as coal seam gas does not
qualify for the Section 29 credit unless the producer has received an appropriate well category determination from the FERC. Substantially all of the wells burdened by the Royalty have received the appropriate well category certification. BROG has informed the Trustee that it will continue to seek certification of any qualified but not certified wells burdened by the Royalty. Unless the Section 29 credit is extended or reinstated in such a way as to include previously drilled wells, however, these actions will not affect the Trust or its Unit Holders in periods after December 31, 2002.
The classification of the Trust’s income for purposes of the passive loss rules may be important to a Unit Holder. As a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, royalty income such as that derived through the Trust will generally be treated as portfolio income and will not reduce passive losses.
Other Regulation
The oil and natural gas industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity.
Item 3.