ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The net overriding royalties conveyed to the Trust include: (1) a 75% net overriding royalty carved out of Southland Royalty's fee mineral interests in the Waddell Ranch in Crane County, Texas (the "Waddell Ranch properties"); and (2) a 95% net overriding royalty carved out of Southland Royalty's major producing royalty interests in Texas (the "Texas Royalty properties"). The net overriding royalty for the Texas Royalty properties is subject to the provisions of the lease agreements under which such royalties were created. References below to "net" wells and acres are to the interests of Southland Royalty (from which the Royalties were carved) in the "gross" wells and acres.
The following information in Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by Southland Royalty or BROG.
PRODUCING ACREAGE, WELLS AND DRILLING
Waddell Ranch Properties. The Waddell Ranch properties consist of 78,175 gross (34,205 net) producing acres. A majority of the proved reserves are attributable to six fields: Dune, Sand Hills (Judkins), Sand Hills (McKnight), Sand Hills (Tubb), University-Waddell (Devonian) and Waddell. At December 31, 1999, the Waddell Ranch properties contained 791 gross (327 net) productive oil wells, 168 gross (70 net) productive gas wells and 350 gross (139 net) injection wells.
BROG is operator of record of the Waddell Ranch properties. All field, technical and accounting operations have been contracted by an agreement between the working interest owners and Coastal Management Corporation ("CMC") but remain under the direction of BROG.
The Waddell Ranch properties are mature producing properties, and all of the major oil fields are currently being waterflooded. Proved reserves and estimated future net revenues attributable to the properties are included in the reserve reports summarized below. BROG does not own the full working interest in any of the tracts constituting the Waddell Ranch properties and, therefore, implementation of any development programs will require approvals of other working interest holders as well as BROG. In addition, implementation of any development programs will be dependent upon oil and gas prices currently being received and anticipated to be received in the future. During 1999 there were 6 gross (2.625 net) wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch properties. At December 31, 1999 there were 3 gross (1.375 net) wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties. During 1998 there were 52 gross (22.75 net) wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch properties. At December 31, 1998 there were 3 gross (1.375 net) wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties. During 1997 there were 23 gross (9.25 net) wells drilled on the Waddell Ranch properties. At December 31, 1997 there were 19 gross (7.875 net) wells in progress on the Waddell Ranch properties.
BROG has advised the Trustee that the total amount of capital expenditures for 1999 with regard to the Waddell Ranch properties totalled $1,052,769. Capital expenditures include the cost of remedial and maintenance activities. This amount spent is approximately $5,013,231 less than the budgeted amount projected by BROG for 1999. BROG has advised the Trustee that the capital expenditures budget for 2000 totals approximately $14,404,000, of which approximately $5,076,000 is attributable to the 2000 drilling program, and $9,364,000 to workovers and recompletions. Accordingly, there is a substantial increase in capital expenditures for 2000 as compared with the 1999 capital expenditures.
Texas Royalty Properties. The Texas Royalty properties consist of royalty interests in mature producing oil fields, such as Yates, Wasson, Sand Hills, East Texas, Kelly-Snyder, Panhandle Regular, N. Cowden, Todd, Keystone, Kermit, McElroy, Howard-Glasscock, Seminole and others. The Texas Royalty properties contain approximately 303,000 gross (approximately 51,000 net) producing acres. Detailed information concerning the number of wells on royalty properties is not generally available to the owners of royalty interests. Consequently, an accurate count of the number of wells located on the Texas Royalty properties cannot readily be obtained.
In February 1997, BROG sold its interests in the Texas Royalty properties that are subject to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance to the Trust dated effective November 1, 1980 ("Texas Royalty Conveyance") to Riverhill Energy Corporation ("Riverhill Energy"), which was then a wholly-owned subsidiary of Riverhill Capital Corporation ("Riverhill Capital") and an affiliate of CMC. At the time of such sale, Riverhill Capital was a privately owned Texas corporation with offices in Bryan and Midland, Texas. The Trustee was informed by BROG that, as required by the Texas Royalty Conveyance, Riverhill Energy succeeded to all of the requirements upon and the responsibilities of BROG under the Texas Royalty Conveyance with regard to the Texas Royalty properties. BROG and Riverhill Energy further advised the Trustee that all accounting operations pertaining to the Texas Royalty properties were being performed by CMC under the direction of Riverhill Energy. BROG indicated to the Trustee that BROG will work together with CMC and Riverhill Energy in an effort to assure that various administrative functions and reporting requirements assumed by Riverhill Energy are met. The Trustee has been advised that independent auditors representing Riverhill Energy and CMC are Arthur Andersen LLP.
The Trustee has been advised that in the first quarter of 1998 Schlumberger Technology Corporation ("Schlumberger"), acquired all of the shares of stock of Riverhill Capital. Prior to such acquisition by Schlumberger, CMC and Riverhill Energy were wholly-owned subsidiaries of Riverhill Capital. The Trustee has further been advised that in connection with Schlumberger's acquisition of Riverhill Capital, the shareholders of Riverhill Capital acquired ownership of all of the shares of stock of Riverhill Energy. Thus, the ownership in the Texas Royalty properties referenced above remained in Riverhill Energy, the stock ownership of which was acquired by the former shareholders of Riverhill Capital. Accounting operations pertaining to the Texas Royalty properties are being performed by CMC under the direction of Riverhill Energy. CMC also currently conducts all field, technical and accounting operations on behalf of BROG with regard to the Waddell Ranch properties.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related distribution is received. Production of oil and gas attributable to the Royalties and the properties from which the Royalties were carved and the related average sales prices attributable to the properties from which the Royalties were carved for the three years ended December 31, 1999, excluding portions attributable to the adjustments discussed below, were as follows:
Since the oil and gas sales attributable to the Royalties are based on an allocation formula that is dependent on such factors as price and cost (including capital expenditures), the production amounts do not provide a meaningful comparison.
In calculating Trust royalty income for the months of June through December 1998, costs exceeded revenues in the Waddell Ranch properties by $1,218,732. Pursuant to the Waddell Ranch Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance dated effective November 1, 1980 ("Waddell Ranch Conveyance"), excess costs plus accrued interest must be recovered from future net proceeds relating to the underlying Waddell Ranch
properties before the properties can again contribute to Trust royalty income. As a result of this, no royalty income was received for those months. Production attributable to the Trust is calculated based on net royalty income. As there was no royalty income, no production was reported for the Waddell Ranch properties at the Trust level for those months. Production at the Trust level for the Waddell Ranch properties was not recorded again until February 1999 when the cumulative excess amounts had been recovered.
In September 1998, the Trust received $1,041,340 from BROG which represented the Trust's portion of amounts that had been previously held in suspense by BROG relating to the Texas Royalty properties. The Trustee was advised that these amounts relate to revenues received by BROG prior to the conveyance of its interest in the Texas Royalty properties to Riverhill Energy in February 1997. In October 1998, Riverhill Energy advised the Trustee that an overpayment of $521,183 with regard to the suspended funds had been made to the Trust. Pursuant to the Texas Royalty Conveyance, Riverhill Energy offset the overpayment against royalty income attributable to the Texas Royalty properties for the months of October and November 1998. The suspense amounts are not reflected in Trust production or used in calculating average prices in 1998 or prior years.
The Trustee was notified in the third quarter of 1996 of the settlement of a class action lawsuit pending in the 270th District Court of Harris County, Texas (the "Court") styled Caroline Altheide and Langdon Harrison vs. Meridian Oil Inc., Meridian Oil Holding Inc., Meridian Oil Trading Inc., Meridian Oil Production Inc., Southland Royalty Company, El Paso Production Company, Meridian Oil Hydrocarbons Inc., Meridian Oil Gathering Inc., Meridian Oil Services Inc. and Edward Parker ("Class Action"), in which the Trust was a class member. The judgment approving the settlement of the Class Action was the subject of an appeal. The Trustee was advised that such appeal was dismissed and in October 1998, the Trust's portion of such settlement proceeds, in the amount of $766,051 was received by the Trustee. The proceeds were subsequently distributed with the regular monthly Trust distribution on November 16, 1998, to the Trust's Unit holders of record on October 31, 1998. The settlement proceeds are not reflected in Trust production in 1998 or prior years.
PRICING INFORMATION
Reference is made to "Regulation" for information as to federal regulation of prices of natural gas. The following paragraphs provide information regarding sales of oil and gas from the Waddell Ranch properties. As a royalty owner, Southland Royalty is not furnished detailed information regarding sales of oil and gas from the Texas Royalty properties.
Oil. The Trustee has been advised by BROG that for the period August 1, 1993 through June 30, 2000, the oil from the Waddell Ranch properties is being sold under a competitive bid to independent third parties.
Gas. The gas produced from the Waddell Ranch properties is processed through a natural gas processing plant and sold at the tailgate of the plant. Plant products are marketed by Burlington Resources Hydrocarbons Inc., an indirect subsidiary of BRI. The processor of the gas (Warren Petroleum Company, L.P.) receives 15% of the liquids and residue gas as a fee for gathering, compression, treating and processing the gas.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following are definitions adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Item:
"Proved reserves" are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which, upon analysis of geological and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
"Proved developed reserves" are those proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
"Proved undeveloped reserves" are those proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
"Estimated future net revenues" are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. "Estimated future net revenues" are sometimes referred to herein as "estimated future net cash flows."
"Present value of estimated future net revenues" is computed using the estimated future net revenues and a discount factor of 10%.
The independent petroleum engineers' reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Royalties conveyed to the Trust were obtained from Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities from December 31, 1996 through December 31, 1999 (in thousands):
Estimated quantities of proved developed reserves of crude oil and natural gas as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were as follows (in thousands):
The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires supplemental disclosures for oil and gas producers based on a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities. Under this disclosure, future cash inflows are computed by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the enterprise's proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are only considered to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is achieved by using a discount rate of 10% a year to reflect the timing of future cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves are by their very nature imprecise. Estimates of future net revenue attributable to proved reserves are sensitive to the unpredictable prices of oil and gas and other variables.
The 1999, 1998, and 1997 change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to future royalty income from proved reserves discounted at 10% is as follows (in thousands):
Oil and gas prices of $24.05 and $24.19 per barrel and $2.74 and $3.18 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties, respectively, at December 31, 1999. The extension, discoveries and other additions for the Waddell Ranch properties are proved reserves related to the Waddell (Greyburg) and Running WN (Wolfcamp) fields. The upward revisions of both reserves and discounted future net cash flows for the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties are due to increases in the oil and gas prices from 1998 to 1999.
Oil and gas prices of $8.56 and $9.96 per barrel and $1.74 and $1.88 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties, respectively, at December 31, 1998. The extension, discoveries and other additions for the Waddell Ranch properties are proved developed producing reserves related to the RM (Clearfork) field. The downward revisions of both reserves and discounted future net cash flows for the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties were due to decreases in oil and gas prices from 1997 to 1998.
Oil and gas prices of $15.79 and $16.75 per barrel and $2.28 and $3.14 per Mcf were used to determine the estimated future net revenues from the Waddell Ranch properties and the Texas Royalty properties at December 31, 1997. The downward revision of the estimated oil reserves and the related decrease in the discounted future net cash flow for the Waddell Ranch properties was primarily due to the decrease in oil prices from 1996 to 1997. The downward revision in the estimated gas reserves for the Waddell Ranch properties was primarily due to the decrease in gas prices from 1996 to 1997.
The following presents estimated future net revenue and the present value of estimated future net revenue, for each of the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997 (in thousands except amounts per Unit):
Reserve quantities and revenues shown in the preceding tables for the Royalties were estimated from projections of reserves and revenue attributable to the combined Southland Royalty and Trust interests in the Waddell Ranch properties and Texas Royalty properties. Reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties were estimated by allocating to the Royalties a portion of the total estimated net reserve quantities of the interests, based upon gross revenue less production taxes. Because the reserve quantities attributable to the Royalties are estimated using an allocation of the reserves, any changes in prices or costs will result in changes in the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the Royalties. Therefore, the reserve quantities estimated will vary if different future price and cost assumptions occur.
Proved reserve quantities are estimates based on information available at the time of preparation and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of those reserves may be substantially different from the original estimate. Moreover, the present values shown above should not be considered as the market values of such oil and gas reserves or the costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent reserves. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
REGULATION
Many aspects of the production, pricing and marketing of crude oil and natural gas are regulated by federal and state agencies. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on affected members of the industry.
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Natural gas and oil operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations that regulate the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum allowable production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of natural gas and oil that can be produced and to limit the number of wells or the locations which can be drilled.
Federal Natural Gas Regulation
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") is primarily responsible for federal regulation of natural gas. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal governmental regulation, including regulation of transportation and storage tariffs and various other matters, by FERC. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 ("Decontrol Act") terminated federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas on January 1, 1993. Consequently, sales of natural gas may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions. The FERC's jurisdiction over natural gas transportation and storage was unaffected by the Decontrol Act.
Sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation remain subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Several major regulatory changes have been implemented by Congress and the FERC from 1985 to the present that affect the economics of natural gas production, transportation, and sales. In addition, the FERC continues to promulgate revisions to various aspects of the rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies, that remain subject to the FERC's jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry and these initiatives generally reflect more light-handed regulation of the natural gas industry. The ultimate impact of the rules and regulations issued by the FERC since 1985 cannot be predicted. In addition, many aspects of these regulatory developments have not become final but are still pending judicial and FERC final decisions.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Trust cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective, or their effect, if any, on the Trust. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Effective as of January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil that could increase the cost of transporting oil to the purchaser. The Trust is not able to predict what effect, if any, these regulations will have on it, but other factors being equal, the regulations may tend to increase transportation costs or reduce wellhead prices for crude oil.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Other Regulation
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. The Trustee does not believe that compliance with these laws by the operating parties will have any material adverse effect on the Unit holders.
ITEM 3.