Item 2. Properties
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1. Disclosure of Reserves
A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at Year-End 2015
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated subsidiaries and equity companies. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the last 12-month period. When crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in early 2016 for an extended period of time, under the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) definition of proved reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas could temporarily not qualify as proved reserves. Under the terms of certain contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices can also increase proved reserves attributable to ExxonMobil. Otherwise, no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2015, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.
(1) South America includes proved developed reserves of 0.1 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 23 billion cubic feet of natural gas.
In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation anticipates several projects will come online over the next few years providing additional production capacity. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups; operational outages; reservoir performance; performance of enhanced oil recovery projects; regulatory changes; the impact of fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on production sharing contracts; changes in the amount and timing of capital investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas price environment; and other factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and natural gas price levels. In addition, proved reserves could be affected by an extended period of low prices which could reduce the level of the Corporation’s capital spending and also impact our partners’ capacity to fund their share of joint projects.
When crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in late 2015 and early 2016 for an extended period of time, under the SEC definition of proved reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas, such as oil sands operations in Canada and natural gas operations in North America could temporarily not qualify as proved reserves. Amounts that could be required to be de-booked as proved reserves on an SEC basis are subject to being re-booked as proved reserves at some point in the future when price levels recover, costs decline, or operating efficiencies occur. Under the terms of certain contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices can also increase proved reserves attributable to ExxonMobil. We do not expect any temporary changes in reported proved reserves under SEC definitions to affect the operation of the underlying projects or to alter our outlook for future production volumes.
B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2015
Additions to ExxonMobil’s proved reserves in 2015 were based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate geological, engineering and production data, utilizing well-established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and consistent results.
Data used in these integrated assessments included information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure information, production test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained through indirect measurements including high-quality 3-D and 4-D seismic data, calibrated with available well control information. The tools used to interpret the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data analysis packages.
In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.
C. Qualifications of Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves
ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that provides technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization. Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting of ExxonMobil’s proved reserves. This group also maintains the official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil’s proved reserves of crude and natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition, the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The Manager of the Global Reserves group has more than 30 years of experience in reservoir engineering and reserves assessment and has a degree in Engineering. He is an active member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and previously served on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee. The group is staffed with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of technical experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology. Several members of the group hold professional registrations in their field of expertise, and a member currently serves on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.
The Global Reserves group maintains a central database containing the official company reserves estimates. Appropriate controls, including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place to ensure data integrity within this central database. An annual review of the system’s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis of well and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be made to the reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed certain thresholds require further review and approval of the appropriate level of management within the operating organization before the changes may be made in the central database. Endorsement by the Global Reserves group for all proved reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews are held with senior management for final endorsement.
2. Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At year-end 2015, approximately 6.8 billion oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil’s proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. This represents 27 percent of the 24.8 GOEB reported in proved reserves. This compares to the 8.8 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported at the end of 2014. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted development activities in over 100 fields that resulted in the transfer of approximately 2.7 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year-end. The largest transfers were related to Kearl Expansion project start-up and drilling activity in the United States. Mainly due to low prices during 2015, the Corporation reclassified approximately 1 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves, primarily natural gas reserves in the United States, which no longer meet the SEC definition of proved reserves.
One of ExxonMobil’s requirements for reporting proved reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy and many major fields require long lead-time in order to be developed. Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production. However, the development time for large and complex projects can exceed five years. During 2015, extensions and purchases primarily related to United States unconventional and Abu Dhabi drilling added approximately 1.7 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. Overall, investments of $19.4 billion were made by the Corporation during 2015 to progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including $17 billion for oil and gas producing activities and an additional $2.4 billion for other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the construction of support infrastructure and other related facilities. These investments represented 76 percent of the $25.4 billion in total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.
Proved undeveloped reserves in Australia, the United States, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Qatar, and Nigeria have remained undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity of infrastructure, the pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well as the time required to complete development for very large projects. The Corporation is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals, and significant changes in long-term oil and natural gas price levels. Of the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years, 84 percent are contained in the aforementioned countries. The largest of these is related to LNG/Gas projects in Australia, where construction of the Gorgon LNG project is under way. In Kazakhstan, the proved undeveloped reserves are related to the remainder of the initial development of the offshore Kashagan field which is included in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement and the Tengizchevroil joint venture which includes a production license in the Tengiz - Korolev field complex. The Tengizchevroil joint venture is producing, and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to move to proved developed as approved development phases progress. In the Netherlands, the Groningen gas field has proved undeveloped reserves related to installation of future stages of compression. These reserves will move to proved developed when the additional stages of compression are installed to maintain field delivery pressure.
3. Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
A. Oil and Gas Production
The table below summarizes production by final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.
(1) South America includes natural gas production available for sale for 2015, 2014 and 2013 of 21 million, 21 million, and 28 million cubic feet daily, respectively.
B. Production Prices and Production Costs
The table below summarizes average production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by product type for the last three years.
Average production prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section 3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A. The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies
Syncrude Operations. Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32 degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2015, the company’s share of net production of synthetic crude oil was 58 thousand barrels per day and share of net acreage was 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.
Kearl Operations. Kearl is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering 49 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.
The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Bitumen is extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through bitumen extraction and froth treatment trains. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is shipped to our refineries and to other third parties. Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate transportation by pipeline and rail. During 2015, average net production at Kearl was 149 thousand barrels per day. The Kearl Expansion project was completed and started up in 2015, adding additional capacity of 110 thousand barrels of bitumen per day.
5. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities
UNITED STATES
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2015 acreage holdings totaled 14.0 million net acres, of which 1.3 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
During the year, 1,063.2 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states. Development activities focused on liquids-rich opportunities in the onshore U.S., primarily in the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico and the Bakken oil play in North Dakota and Montana. In addition, gas development activities continued in the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and West Virginia and the Utica Shale of Ohio.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2015 was 1.2 million acres. A total of 3.5 net development wells were completed during the year. The deepwater Hadrian South project and the non-operated Lucius project started up in 2015. ExxonMobil continued development activities on the Heidelberg and Julia Phase 1 projects. Offshore California 1.0 net development well was completed.
Participation in Alaska production and development continued with a total of 20.9 net development wells completed. Development activities continued on the Point Thomson project.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Oil and Gas Operations: ExxonMobil’s year-end 2015 acreage holdings totaled 6.2 million net acres, of which 1.9 million net acres were offshore. A total of 11.1 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Development activities continued on the Hebron project during 2015.
In Situ Bitumen Operations: ExxonMobil’s year-end 2015 in situ bitumen acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net onshore acres. A total of 41.0 net development wells were completed during the year. The Cold Lake Nabiye Expansion project started up in 2015.
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.9 million onshore acres at year-end 2015, and there were 1.0 net development wells completed during the year.
EUROPE
Germany
A total of 4.8 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2015, with 0.7 net development wells completed during the year.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.5 million acres at year-end 2015, of which 1.2 million acres were onshore. A total of 3.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
Norway
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2015 totaled approximately 0.2 million acres, all offshore. A total of 6.8 net exploration and development wells were completed in 2015. The non-operated Aasgard Subsea Compression project started up in 2015.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2015 totaled approximately 0.5 million acres, all offshore. A total of 5.1 net development wells were completed during the year.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.4 million offshore acres at year-end 2015, with 3.6 net development wells completed during the year. On Block 15, the Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 project started up in 2015. On Block 32, development activities continued on the Kaombo Split Hub project.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2015 acreage holdings consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 15.6 net development wells completed during the year.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.3 million net offshore acres at year-end 2015, with 2.3 net development wells completed during the year. In 2015, ExxonMobil acquired deepwater acreage in Block EG 06.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.1 million offshore acres at year-end 2015, with 2.9 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. In 2015, ExxonMobil acquired deepwater acreage in Block OPL 247. The deepwater Erha North Phase 2 project started up, and development drilling continued on the deepwater Usan project in 2015.
ASIA
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 0.9 net development wells were completed during the year.
Indonesia
At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil had 0.5 million net acres, 0.4 million net acres offshore and 0.1 million net acres onshore, with 3.2 net development wells completed during the year. In 2015, acreage was relinquished in the North Sumatra and Arun fields. The Banyu Urip onshore central processing facility started up in 2015.
Iraq
At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil’s onshore acreage was 0.6 million net acres. West Qurna Phase 1 oil field rehabilitation activities continued during 2015 and across the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of existing wells, and optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities. In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, after operations were temporarily suspended due to security concerns in the region during 2014, ExxonMobil resumed its seismic program and exploration drilling in 2015, with 1.6 net exploration wells completed during the year.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2015. A total of 3.7 net development wells were completed during 2015. Following a brief production period in 2013, Kashagan operations were suspended due to a leak in the onshore section of the gas pipeline. Working with our partners, activities are under way to replace both the oil and gas pipelines.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.2 million net acres offshore at year-end 2015. During the year, a total of 4.0 net development wells were completed.
Qatar
Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum, ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2015. ExxonMobil participated in 62.2 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural gas capacity and 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of flowing gas capacity at year end. Development activities continued on the Barzan project.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2015.
Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings in Sakhalin at year-end 2015 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 1.5 net development wells were completed. The Arkutun-Dagi project started up, and development activities continued on the Odoptu Stage 2 project in 2015.
At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Rosneft joint venture agreements for the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas was 63.6 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil and Rosneft formed a joint venture to evaluate the development of tight-oil reserves in western Siberia in 2013. Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 7: Equity Company Information” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information on the Corporation’s participation in Rosneft joint venture activities.
Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2015.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2015. During the year, a total of 3.6 net development wells were completed. Development activities continued on the Upper Zakum 750 project.
AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA
Australia
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2015 acreage holdings totaled 1.5 million net offshore acres. During the year, a total of 3.1 net exploration and development wells were completed. Construction activities continued on the Gas Conditioning Plant at Longford.
Project construction and commissioning activity for the co-venturer operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in 2015. The project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and transportation of the gas, a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and a 280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island, Western Australia.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 1.1 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2015, with 1.5 net development wells completed during the year. The Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG integrated development includes gas production and processing facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, onshore and offshore pipelines, and a 6.9 million tonnes per year LNG facility near Port Moresby.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2015, exploration activities were under way in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 12.6 million net acres were held at year-end 2015 and 4.4 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
6. Delivery Commitments
ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations under a variety of contractual obligations, some of which may specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity for periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can be a combination of our own production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately 43 million barrels of oil and 2,800 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2016 through 2018. We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases as necessary.
7. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
A. Gross and Net Productive Wells
There were 35,909 gross and 30,114 net operated wells at year-end 2015 and 35,446 gross and 29,870 net operated wells at year-end 2014. The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,266 gross in 2015 and 1,219 gross in 2014.
Note: Year-end 2014 consolidated subsidiaries well counts for gross and net wells in the United States were restated in regards to non-operated wells.
B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
(1) Includes developed acreage in South America of 213 gross and 109 net thousands of acres for 2015 and 213 gross and 109 net thousands of acres for 2014.
Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
(1) Includes undeveloped acreage in South America of 10,634 gross and 4,970 net thousands of acres for 2015 and 9,056 gross and 8,083 net thousands of acres for 2014.
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.
D. Summary of Acreage Terms
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas exploration and production rights are acquired from mineral interest owners through a lease. Mineral interest owners include the Federal and State governments, as well as private mineral interest owners. Leases typically have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some instances regarding private property, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible. These licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or leases upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease agreements are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases. Exploration licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held by work commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a maximum term of nine years. Production licenses in the offshore are valid for 25 years, with rights of extension for continued production. Significant discovery licenses in the offshore, relating to currently undeveloped discoveries, do not have a definite term.
Argentina
The Federal Hydrocarbon Law was amended in December 2014. The onshore concession terms granted prior to the amendment are up to six years, divided into three potential exploration periods, with an optional extension for up to one year depending on the classification of the area. Pursuant to the amended law, the production term for a conventional production concession would be 25 years, and 35 years for an unconventional concession, with unlimited ten-year extensions possible, once a field has been developed.
EUROPE
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.
Netherlands
Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the Mining Law.
Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate in all other areas. The licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended up to 50 years at the discretion of the government.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration, development and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. A new PSC was signed in 2015; the initial exploration period is five years for oil and gas, with multi-year extensions available at the discretion of the Ministry and limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil ranges from 25 to 30 years, while the production period for natural gas ranges from 25 to 50 years.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC typically holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase that can be divided into multiple optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further renewal option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. Commercial terms applicable to the existing joint venture oil production are defined by the Petroleum Profits Tax Act.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
ASIA
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012, Indonesia’s Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to BPMIGAS to be unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with BPMIGAS should remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties previously performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry of the Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law. By presidential decree, SKKMIGAS became the interim successor to BPMIGAS. The current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended up to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require the contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area after three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50 percent to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending on the acreage and terms.
Iraq
Development and production activities in the state-owned oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in the development and production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years with the right to extend for five years. The contract provides for cost recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified levels.
Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for five years, with extensions available as provided by the PSCs and at the discretion of the regional government of Kurdistan. The production period is 20 years with the right to extend for five years.
Kazakhstan
Onshore exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Malaysia
Production activities are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company. The PSCs have terms ranging up to 29 years. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 29 years, depending on the provisions of the respective contract.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in June 1995. Due to force majeure events, the development period has been extended beyond its original expiration date by an additional 400 days, with the possibility of further extensions due to ongoing force majeure events.
Russia
Terms for ExxonMobil’s Sakhalin acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in ten-year increments as specified in the PSA.
Exploration and production activities in the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas are governed by joint venture agreements concluded with Rosneft in 2013 and 2014 that cover certain of Rosneft’s offshore licenses. The Kara Sea licenses covered by the joint venture agreements concluded in 2013 extend through 2040 and include an exploration period through 2020. Additional licenses in the Kara, Laptev and Chukchi Seas covered by the joint venture agreements concluded in 2014 extend through 2043 and include an exploration period through 2023. The Kara, Laptev and Chukchi Sea licenses require development plan submission within eight years of a discovery and development activities within five years of plan approval. The Black Sea exploration license extends through 2017 and a discovery is the basis for obtaining a license for production. Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 7: Equity Company Information” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information on the Corporation’s participation in Rosneft joint venture activities.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
United Arab Emirates
An interest in the development and production activities of the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 2006, for a term expiring March 2026, and in 2013 the governing agreements were extended to 2041.
AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA
Australia
Exploration and production activities conducted offshore in Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”. In each case, a production license may be terminated if no production operations have been carried on for five years.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister’s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.
Information with regard to the Downstream segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Downstream segment manufactures and sells petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and feedstocks to our customers around the world.
Refining Capacity At Year-End 2015 (1)
(1) Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time. The listing excludes refineries owned through cost companies in Japan and New Zealand, and the Laffan Refinery in Qatar for which results are reported in the Upstream segment.
(2) Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil’s interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.
The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world through our Exxon, Esso and Mobil brands.
Retail Sites At Year-End 2015
Information with regard to the Chemical segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Chemical segment manufactures and sells petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.
Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2015 (1)(2)
(1) Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.
(2) Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil’s interest. The listing excludes cost company capacity in Japan.
Item 3.