Item 2. Properties.
Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in the Financial Section of this report in Note 9, which note appears on page 59, and on pages 78 through 87.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1.
Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas at Year-End 2004
Estimated proved reserves are shown on pages 82 through 85 of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2004, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date, with the exception of bitumen prices in western Canada which have increased substantially from December 31. This price increase resulted in the rebooking, in 2005, of approximately 0.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the Cold Lake field. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves, see pages 86 and 87 of the Financial Section of this report.
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area for consolidated subsidiaries as detailed on pages 82 through 85 of the Financial Section of this report for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Corporation has reported 2004 proved reserves on the basis of December 31, 2004 prices and costs for the first time. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
Additional detail on developed and undeveloped oil-equivalent proved reserves is shown in the table below.
Index to Financial Statements In the preceding reserves information, and in the reserves tables on pages 82 through 85 of the Financial Section of this report, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same views of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation’s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity increases to average 3 percent annually through 2010. However, actual volume increases will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described under the heading “Factors Affecting Future Results” in Item 1 of this report.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations and extrapolations of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. In certain deepwater fields, proved reserves are recorded in a limited number of cases before flow tests are conducted because of the safety and cost implications of conducting the tests. In those situations, other industry accepted analyses are used such as information from well logs, a thorough pressure and fluid sampling program, conventional core data obtained across the entire reservoir interval and nearby analog data. Historically, proved reserves recorded using these methods have been immaterial when compared to the Corporation’s total proved reserves and have also been validated by subsequent flow tests or actual production levels. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and ultimate recovery can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long term oil and gas price levels.
2. Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies
During 2004, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S. Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information on Form EIA-28 is presented on the same basis as the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2003, which shows ExxonMobil’s net interests in all liquids and gas reserve volumes and changes thereto from both ExxonMobil-operated properties and properties operated by others. The data on Form EIA-23, although consistent with the data on Form EIA-28, is presented on a different basis, and includes 100 percent of the oil and gas volumes from ExxonMobil-operated properties only, regardless of the company’s net interest. In addition, Form EIA-23 information does not include gas plant liquids. The difference between the oil reserves reported on EIA-23 and those reported in the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2003 exceeds five percent. The difference in gas reserves did not exceed five percent.
3. Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production
Reference is made to pages 78 and 79 of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table on page 83 of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and thus are different from those shown in the reserves table on page 84 of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. The volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.
Index to Financial Statements 4. Gross and Net Productive Wells
The numbers of wells operated at year-end 2004 were 18,427 gross wells and 15,216 net wells. At year-end 2003, the numbers of operated wells were 20,174 gross wells and 16,610 net wells.
5. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
Note: Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
6. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually-defined and vary significantly. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions.
Index to Financial Statements 7. Summary of Acreage Terms in Key Areas
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. In some instances, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada is currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
EUROPE
France
Exploration permits are granted for periods of three to five years, and are renewable up to two times accompanied by substantial acreage relinquishments: 50 percent of the acreage at first renewal; 25 percent of the remaining acreage at second renewal. A 1994 law requires a bidding process prior to granting of an exploration permit. Upon discovery of commercial hydrocarbons, a production concession is granted for up to 50 years, renewable in periods of 25 years each.
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years with possible extensions of up to three years for an indefinite period. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.
Netherlands
Under the new Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the Mining Law.
Exploration and production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003 remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas.
Onshore: Exploration licenses were issued for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license was issued. Production concessions are granted after discoveries have been made, under conditions that are negotiated with the government. Normally, they are field-life concessions covering an area defined by hydrocarbon occurrences.
Offshore: Exploration licenses issued between 1976 and 1996 were for a ten-year period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required at the end of six years. Exploration licenses granted after that time were for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the permit was issued. Production licenses are normally issued for a 40-year period.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth
Index to Financial Statements
year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997 have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, the regulations governing licenses issued between 1996 and 1998 provided for an initial term of three years with possible extensions of six, 15 and 24 years for a license period of 45 more years. After the second extension, the license must be surrendered in part. Licenses issued in 2002 as part of the 20th licensing round have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years. There is a mandatory relinquishment of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
ASIA PACIFIC
Australia
Exploration and production activities are conducted offshore and are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits granted before January 1, 2003 were issued for six years with three possible five-year renewal periods. Exploration permits granted after that date are issued for six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. A 50 percent relinquishment of remaining area is mandatory at the end of each renewal period. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to September 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter renewals at the discretion of the Joint Authority, comprising Federal and State Ministers. Effective from September 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated).
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the government owned oil company, which is now a competing limited liability company.
Japan
The Mining Law provides for the granting of concessions that convey exploration and production rights. Exploration rights are granted for an initial two-year period, and may be extended for two two-year periods for gas and three two-year periods for oil. Production rights have no fixed term and continue until abandonment so long as the rights holder is fulfilling its obligations.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts have an overall term of 24 to 38 years with
Index to Financial Statements
possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible. Generally, a 50 percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended twice for a maximum retention time of 15 years.
Russia
Acreage terms are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin I consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in 10-year increments as specified in the PSA.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a possible ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by various agreements negotiated with the national oil company and the government of Cameroon. Exploration permits are granted for terms from four to 16 years and are generally renewable for multiple periods up to four years each. Upon commercial discovery, mining concessions are issued for a period of 25 years with one 25-year extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated Convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the government.
Index to Financial Statements Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months’ written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50 percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production was renegotiated and executed in 2000. The MOU is effective for a minimum of three years with possible extensions on mutual agreement and is terminable on one calendar year’s notice.
SOUTH AMERICA
Argentina
The onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50 percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed.
Venezuela
Exploration and production activities are governed by contracts negotiated with the national oil company. Exploration activity is covered by risk/profit sharing contracts where exploration blocks are awarded for 35 years. Production licenses are awarded for 20 years under production service agreements.
Index to Financial Statements Strategic association agreements (such as the Cerro Negro project) are typically limited to those projects that require vertical integration for extra heavy crude oil. Contracts are awarded for 35 years. Significant amendments to the contract terms require Venezuelan congressional approval.
MIDDLE EAST
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
Production sharing agreements (PSAs) negotiated with the government entitle the company to participate in exploration operations within a designated area during the exploration period. In the event of a commercial oil discovery, the company is entitled to proceed with development and production operations during the development period. The length of these periods and other specific terms are negotiated prior to executing the PSA. Existing production operations have a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA.
United Arab Emirates
Exploration and production activities in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi.
CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field (commonly known as the Megastructure) is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Kazakhstan
Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years with possible extensions. The production period, which includes development, is for 20 years with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Index to Financial Statements 8. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
9. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
Index to Financial Statements B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities in Key Areas
During 2004, ExxonMobil’s activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, by ExxonMobil Exploration Company (for exploration), by ExxonMobil Development Company (for large development activities), by ExxonMobil Production Company (for producing and smaller development activities) and by ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company (for gas marketing). During this same period, some of ExxonMobil’s exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in Canada by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
Some of the more significant ongoing activities are set forth below:
UNITED STATES
Exploration and delineation of additional hydrocarbon resources continued in 2004. At year-end 2004, ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 12.5 million net acres, of which 3.3 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska. A total of 16.6 net exploration and delineation wells were completed during 2004.
During 2004, 542.5 net development wells were completed within and around mature fields in the inland lower 48 states and 8.0 net development wells were completed offshore in the Pacific. Construction continued on an acid gas injection project to increase existing plant capacity at the Shute Creek treating facility in La Barge, Wyoming, and tight gas development has been initiated in the Piceance Basin in Colorado. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 21.8 net development wells were drilled. On Alaska’s North Slope, activity continued on the Western Region Development Project (primarily the Orion field) with development drilling and conceptual engineering for facility expansions.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2004 was 3.1 million acres. A total of 8.1 net development wells were completed during the year and development continued on several Gulf of Mexico projects. Production began from the South Diana subsea deepwater field in March 2004. Production began from the first phase of the Llano subsea development in May 2004. Hull construction was completed and topsides construction continued on the semi-submersible production and drilling vessel for the Thunder Horse development.
CANADA
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2004 acreage holdings totaled 8.5 million net acres, of which 4.1 million net acres were offshore. A total of 474.4 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
Gross production from Cold Lake averaged 126 thousand barrels per day during 2004. In eastern Canada, the South Venture field of the Sable Offshore Energy Project came online.
EUROPE
France
ExxonMobil’s acreage at year-end 2004 was 0.1 million net onshore acres, with 1.0 net exploration and development well completed during the year.
Index to Financial Statements Germany
A total of 2.3 million net onshore acres and 0.2 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2004, with 4.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s interest in licenses totaled 1.9 million net acres at year-end 2004, 1.5 million acres onshore and 0.4 million acres offshore. During 2004, 1.6 net exploration and development wells were drilled. Offshore, the K/7-FB field began production in late December 2003, and the K/15-FB-South field began production in July 2004. Onshore, a multi-year project is underway to renovate production clusters and install new compression to maintain capacity and extend field life.
Norway
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2004 totaled approximately 1.1 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 12.6 net exploration and development well completions in 2004. Production was initiated at the Ringhorne Jurassic field in March 2004, at the Vigdis East field in May 2004, and at the Sleipner West Alpha North field and the Sleipner West compression project in October 2004. New development projects at Kristin and Ormen Lange are in progress.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2004 totaled approximately 1.3 million acres, all offshore. A total of 10.8 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Goldeneye project started first production in late 2004. The Arthur field project was progressed in 2004 and production was initiated early in 2005. Project development progressed on the Cutter field.
ASIA PACIFIC
Australia
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2004 acreage holdings totaled 1.4 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil drilled a total of 3.9 net exploration and development wells in 2004.
Indonesia
ExxonMobil had acreage of 2.7 million net acres at year-end 2004, 1.7 million acres offshore and 1.0 million acres onshore.
Japan
ExxonMobil’s net offshore acreage was 36 thousand acres at year-end 2004.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil had interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2004. During the year, a total of 20.2 net exploration and development wells were completed. Development and infill drilling wells were successfully completed at eight platforms: Guntong-C, Semangkok-A, Semangkok-B, Larut-A, Tapis-F, Angsi-A, Angsi-C and Angsi-E. First oil was produced from Tapis-F in 2004. Drilling activities are currently ongoing at Semangkok-B, Irong Barat-C and Angsi-A.
Index to Financial Statements Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.6 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2004, with 0.8 net development wells completed during the year.
Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings at year-end 2004 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. Construction and drilling activities have commenced on Phase 1 of Sakhalin I. Phase 1 facilities will include an offshore platform, onshore drill site for extended reach drilling to offshore oil zones, an onshore processing plant, an oil pipeline from Sakhalin Island to the Russian mainland and a mainland terminal for shipment of oil by tanker.
Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2004. The total net well completions in 2004 were 0.2 development wells.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2004 acreage holdings totaled 1.3 million net offshore acres and 7.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Production began at the ExxonMobil-operated Kizomba A development on Block 15 and construction is underway on the Kizomba B development. On the non-operated Block 17, construction is underway on the Dalia development, and engineering and design work is proceeding on the Rosa discovery.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.3 million net offshore acres at year-end 2004, with 0.4 net development wells completed during the year.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2004 acreage holdings consisted of 3.3 million onshore acres, with 44.0 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The Chad-Cameroon oil development and pipeline project reached full production in 2004, with start-up of the Kome and Bolobo fields.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.5 million net offshore acres at year-end 2004, with 6.1 net development wells completed during the year.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.7 million offshore acres at year-end 2004, with 11.0 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Drilling continued in 2004 on the new Yoho and Awawa platforms, installed in 2003, as development continued at the ExxonMobil-operated Yoho field (OML 104). The Yoho Floating, Storage and Offloading (FSO) facility also arrived on site and installation is progressing. Construction also continued on the Amenam-Kpono Phase 2 Gas project. Construction, installation and drilling activities continued at the Bonga field (OML 118), and
Index to Financial Statements
drilling and construction activities are underway on the ExxonMobil-operated Erha field (OPL 209). Construction and installation are underway on the ExxonMobil-operated East Area Additional Oil Recovery project. The financing agreement and construction contracts for the ExxonMobil-operated East Area NGL project were signed in 2004.
OTHER COUNTRIES
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.3 million onshore acres at year-end 2004 and there were 0.5 net development wells completed during the year.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2004 acreage holdings totaled 0.2 million onshore acres, with 3.3 net development wells completed during the year.
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2004, ExxonMobil’s net acreage, located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan, totaled 0.1 million acres. During the year, 0.5 net exploration and development wells were completed. At the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (ACG) Early Oil project, oil production with pressure support from water injection is ongoing. Engineering and construction is underway on the first, second and third phases of full field development at ACG.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2004, with 4.0 net exploration and development wells completed during 2004. At Tengiz, construction of the 300 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) expansion project began in 2003. Approval of the Kashagan field’s development plan by the Republic of Kazakhstan was received in February 2004. Detailed engineering of the initial phase of development is underway and the majority of the fabrication contracts have been placed.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on natural gas projects in Qatar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) operating companies include:
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited - (QG)
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II) - (QGII)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Gas Company Limited - (RL)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II) - (RLII)
In addition, an ExxonMobil subsidiary is currently constructing natural gas production facilities for the Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) project to supply pipeline gas to domestic industrial customers.
At the end of 2004, 42 (gross) wells supplied natural gas to currently producing LNG facilities and drilling is underway to complete wells that will supply the new QGII, RLII and AKG projects.
Qatar LNG capacity volumes at year-end included 9.4 MTA (millions of metric tons per year) in QG trains 1-3 and a combined 11.3 MTA in RL trains 1-2 and RL II train 3. An expansion project is underway to increase the capacity of QG trains 1-3 to 9.7 MTA. Construction of QG II trains 4-5 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete. In addition, construction of RL II trains 4-5 will add planned capacity of 9.4 MTA when complete.
Index to Financial Statements The conversion factor to translate Qatar LNG volumes (millions of metric tons - MT) into gas volumes (billions of cubic feet - BCF) is dependent on the gas quality and the quality of the LNG produced. The conversion factors are approximately 46 BCF/MT for QG trains 1-3, RL trains 1-2 and RLII train 3 and approximately 49 BCF/MT for QGII trains 4-5 and RLII trains 4-5.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 0.9 million acres onshore at year-end 2004. During the year, 4.8 net development wells were completed.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi onshore oil concession was 0.5 million acres at year-end 2004. During the year, 7.8 net exploratory and development wells were completed.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2004, exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 35 million net acres were held at year-end 2004, and 1.2 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
Information with regard to mining activities follows:
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of tar sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, exploits a portion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta by Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline Ltd. Since start-up in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 1.5 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.
Operating License and Leases
Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine tar sands and produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on tar sands leases. Syncrude holds eight tar sands leases covering approximately 252,000 acres in the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit which were issued by the Province of Alberta. The leases are automatically renewable as long as tar sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. In the Base mine (lease 17), the mining and transportation system uses draglines, bucketwheel reclaimers and belt conveyors. In the
Index to Financial Statements
North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34), truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems are used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separates crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 545,000 tons of tar sands a day, producing 110 million barrels of crude bitumen a year. This represents recovery capability of about 92 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined tar sands.
Crude bitumen extracted from tar sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon removal in two large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen addition in high-temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity, low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2004, this upgrading process yielded 0.855 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. In 2004 about 46 percent of the synthetic crude oil was processed by Edmonton area refineries and the remaining 54 percent was pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and exported, primarily to the United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and an 80 megawatt electricity generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Imperial Oil Limited’s 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities was about $2.3 billion at year end 2004.
Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves
The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 160 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, historical extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. Proven reserves include the operating Base and North mines and the Aurora mine. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are an estimated 2,055 million tons of extractable tar sands in the Base and North mines, with an average bitumen grade of 10.6 weight percent. In addition, at the Aurora mine, there are an estimated 4,470 million tons of extractable tar sands at an average bitumen grade of 11.1 weight percent. After deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates that its 25 percent net share of proven reserves at year end 2004 was equivalent to 757 million barrels of synthetic crude oil.
In 2001, the Syncrude owners endorsed a further development of the Syncrude resource in the area and expansion of the upgrading facilities. The Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion 1 project adds a remote mining train and expands the central processing and upgrading plant. This expansion is under way and will lead to total production of about 350 thousand barrels of synthetic crude oil per day (gross) when completed.
Index to Financial Statements ExxonMobil Share of Net Proven Syncrude Reserves(1)
(1)
Net reserves are the company’s share of reserves after deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Syncrude Operating Statistics (total operation)
(1)
Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes.
(2)
Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined tar sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor.
(3)
Reflects ExxonMobil’s 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Item 3.