Item 2. Properties.
Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in “Note 8: Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations” and in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities,” both included in the Financial Section of this report.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1.
Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas at Year-End 2008
Estimated proved reserves are shown in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2008, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves, see the “Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report.
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area for consolidated subsidiaries as detailed in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of December 31 prices and costs. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
Index to Financial Statements Additional detail on developed and undeveloped oil-equivalent proved reserves is shown in the table below.
In the preceding reserves information, and in the reserves tables in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation’s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2009-2013. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A - Risk Factors of this report.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.
2. Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies
During 2008, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S. Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information on Form EIA-28 is presented on the same basis as the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007, which shows ExxonMobil’s net interests in all liquids and gas reserve volumes and changes thereto from both ExxonMobil-operated properties and properties operated by others. The data on Form EIA-23, although consistent with the data on Form EIA-28, is presented on a different basis, and includes 100 percent of the oil and gas volumes from ExxonMobil-operated properties only, regardless of the company’s net interest. In addition,
Index to Financial Statements
Form EIA-23 information does not include gas plant liquids. The difference between the oil reserves and gas reserves reported on EIA-23 and those reported in the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007 exceeds five percent.
3. Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production
Reference is made to the “Results of Operations” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and thus are different from those shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
4. Gross and Net Productive Wells
There were 16,286 gross and 13,573 net operated wells at year-end 2008 and 16,797 gross and 13,945 net operated wells at year-end 2007.
5. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
Note: Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
Index to Financial Statements 6. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions.
7. Summary of Acreage Terms
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some instances, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Exploration rights in onshore areas acquired from Canadian provinces entitle the holder to obtain leases upon completing specified work. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada and the block in the Beaufort Sea acquired in 2007 are currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
Argentina
The onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed.
Index to Financial Statements
EUROPE
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license. In May 2007, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired four exploration licenses over 1.3 million acres in the Lower Saxony Basin. The exploration licenses are for a period of five years during which exploration work programs will be carried out.
Netherlands
Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the Mining Law.
Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. ExxonMobil’s licenses issued in 2005 as part of the 23rd licensing round have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years. There is a mandatory relinquishment of 50-percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Index to Financial Statements Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by various agreements negotiated with the national oil company and the government of Cameroon. Exploration permits are granted for terms from four to 16 years and are generally renewable for multiple periods up to four years each. Upon commercial discovery, mining concessions are issued for a period of 25 years with one 25-year extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the government. In May 2007, Chad enacted a new Petroleum Code which would govern new acquisitions.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years. A new Hydrocarbons Law was enacted in November 2006. Under the new law, the exploration terms for new production sharing contracts are four to five years with a maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months’ written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated on one calendar year’s notice.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
Index to Financial Statements ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
Exploration and production activities are conducted offshore and are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated). Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”.
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the government owned oil company, which is now a competing limited liability company.
Japan
The Mining Law provides for the granting of concessions that convey exploration and production rights. Exploration rights are granted for an initial two-year period, and may be extended for two two-year periods for gas and three two-year periods for oil. Production rights have no fixed term and continue until abandonment so long as the rights holder is fulfilling its obligations.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by seven production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company, three governing exploration and production activities and four governing production activities only. The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the national oil company for a new PSC. Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company is entitled to undertake new development and production activities of areas, in oil fields under an existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and spending commitments. When the existing PSC expires on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC, as well as those areas developed by the Company under the new PSC, all automatically become part of the new PSC, which has a 25-year duration from April 2008.
Index to Financial Statements Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister’s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Recent amendments of the Oil and Gas Act provide that extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
Existing production operations under the production sharing agreements (PSAs) have a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA. The Government of Yemen awarded a five-year extension of the Marib PSA, but later repudiated the extension and expelled the concession holders. The concession holders brought an action for arbitration over the Government’s actions, but the arbitration panel in 2008 ruled in favor of the Government.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
United Arab Emirates
Exploration and production activities for the major onshore oilfields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 1, 2006, for a term expiring March 9, 2026, on fiscal terms consistent with the Company’s existing interests in Abu Dhabi.
RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Index to Financial Statements Kazakhstan
Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period was six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Russia
Terms for ExxonMobil’s acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in 10-year increments as specified in the PSA.
Index to Financial Statements 8. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
9. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
Index to Financial Statements B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities
During 2008, ExxonMobil’s activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, by ExxonMobil Exploration Company (for exploration), by ExxonMobil Development Company (for large development activities), by ExxonMobil Production Company (for producing and smaller development activities) and by ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company (for gas marketing). During this same period, some of ExxonMobil’s exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in Canada by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
UNITED STATES
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2008 acreage holdings totaled 10.8 million net acres, of which 2.3 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
During 2008, 416.4 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states and 2.0 net development wells were completed offshore in the Pacific. Tight gas development continued in the Piceance Basin of Colorado. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 20.5 net development wells were drilled. On Alaska’s North Slope, activity continued on the Western Region Development (primarily the Orion field) with development drilling and engineering design for future facility expansions.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2008 was 2.1 million acres. A total of 3.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Activity on the Thunder Horse project continued, with production from the deepwater semi-submersible development commencing in 2008. Work to rebuild and reinstall subsea equipment resulting from subsea manifold failures continued.
Construction of the Golden Pass LNG regasification terminal in Texas continued in 2008. The terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to two billion cubic feet of gas per day.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2008 acreage holdings totaled 8.0 million net acres, of which 3.9 million net acres were offshore. A total of 221.2 net development wells were completed during the year.
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million onshore acres at year-end 2008, and there were 3.3 net development wells completed during the year.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil’s acreage holdings and assets were expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.
EUROPE
Germany
A total of 3.1 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2008, with 3.5 net development and exploration wells drilled during the year.
Index to Financial Statements Italy
Construction of the Adriatic LNG regasification terminal continued in 2008. The terminal was moved from its construction site to its final location offshore Italy for commissioning. The terminal will have the capacity to supply up to 775 million cubic feet of gas per day to the Italian gas market.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.5 million acres at year-end 2008, of which 1.2 million acres were onshore. A total of 2.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Offshore, construction of the L09 project was completed. Onshore, the project to redevelop the previously abandoned Schoonebeek oil field commenced. In addition, the multi-year project to renovate Groningen production clusters, install new compression to maintain capacity, and extend field life continued.
Norway
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2008 totaled approximately 0.8 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 8.3 net exploration and development well completions in 2008. Production was initiated at Volve and construction on the Tyrihans project continued.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2008 totaled approximately 1.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 1.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Starling and Caravel projects started up in 2008, while the St. Fergus gas processing facilities refurbishment project continued to make progress.
Construction of the South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Wales continued in 2008. The terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to two billion cubic feet of gas per day into the natural gas grid.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2008 acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net offshore acres and 10.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, development drilling continued at Kizomba A and Kizomba B. The Block’s fourth major development, Kizomba C, began production from the Mondo and Saxi/Batuque fields in 2008. A block-wide 3D and 4D seismic acquisition program concluded during the year. On the non-operated Block 17, project work continued on the Pazflor project in 2008 and development drilling continued at Rosa and Dalia. The Plutao-Saturno-Venus-Marte (PSVM) project on Block 31 (non-operated) was approved in 2008.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings totaled 0.1 million offshore acres.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2008 acreage holdings consisted of 3.3 million onshore acres, with 22.8 net development wells completed during the year. Work began on the Timbre field, with production expected in 2009.
Index to Financial Statements Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.2 million net offshore acres at year-end 2008.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.0 million offshore acres at year-end 2008, with 10.9 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The ExxonMobil-operated East Area Natural Gas Liquids II project started up in 2008. This project reduced flared gas and will recover high-value natural gas liquids from the gas stream. Work continued on the deepwater Usan project in 2008. A 3D seismic acquisition program that will provide enhanced resolution of existing fields and target deeper formations progressed. Appraisal drilling continued at Bonga North, Erha North East and Bosi North Deep fields.
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2008 offshore acreage holdings totaled 2.4 million acres. During 2008, a total of 3.0 net development wells were drilled. Work continued on the Kipper gas project and the Turrum Phase 2 development project was approved in 2008.
Indonesia
At year-end 2008, ExxonMobil had 5.1 million net acres, 4.1 million acres offshore and 1.0 million acres onshore and 1.4 net exploration wells were completed during the year. Project activities continued on the Banyu Urip development in the Cepu Contract area.
Japan
ExxonMobil’s net offshore acreage was 36 thousand acres at year-end 2008.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2008. During the year, a total of 9.8 net development wells were completed. The Tapis F and Jerneh B gas platforms started up in 2008.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.4 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2008, with 0.9 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on natural gas projects in Qatar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) operating companies include:
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited - (QG I)
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II) - (QG II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited - (RL I)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II) - (RL II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) - (RL 3)
Index to Financial Statements In addition, ExxonMobil’s Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) Phase 1 project supplied pipeline gas to domestic industrial customers. The AKG facilities have sales gas capacity of up to 750 mcfd (millions of cubic feet per day) and produce associated condensate and LPG (Liquid Petroleum Gas). The AKG Phase 2 project is planned to add sales gas capacity of up to 1,250 mcfd, while recovering associated condensate and LPG.
At the end of 2008, 93 (gross) wells supplied natural gas to currently-producing LNG and pipeline gas sales facilities and drilling is underway to complete wells that will supply the new QG II, RL 3 and AKG 2 projects. At year-end 2008, ExxonMobil had 0.1 million net offshore acres. During 2008, 10.3 net exploration and development wells were completed.
Qatar LNG capacity volumes (gross) at year-end 2008 included 9.7 MTA (millions of metric tons per annum) in QG trains 1-3 and a combined 20.7 MTA in RL I trains 1-2 and RL II trains 3-5. In November 2008 commissioning activities commenced at QG II train 4. Construction of QG II trains 4-5 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete. In addition, construction of RL 3 trains 6-7 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete.
The conversion factor to translate Qatar LNG volumes (millions of metric tons - MT) into gas volumes (billions of cubic feet - BCF) is dependent on the gas quality and the quality of the LNG produced. The conversion factors are approximately 46 BCF/MT for QG I trains 1-3, RL I trains 1-2, and RL II train 3, and approximately 49 BCF/MT for QG II trains 4-5, RL II trains 4-5, and RL 3 trains 6-7.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end.
Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2008.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi oil concessions was 0.6 million acres at year-end 2008, of which 0.4 million acres were onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore. During the year, a total of 5.7 net exploration and development wells were completed. During 2008, work progressed on multiple field development projects, both onshore and offshore, to sustain and increase oil production capacity.
RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2008, ExxonMobil’s net acreage, located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan, totaled 0.1 million acres. At the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field, 1.2 net development wells were completed and production ramp-up continued. The Phase 3 Deep Water Gunashli project started up in 2008.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2008, with 0.7 net development wells completed during 2008. The initial phase of the Tengiz expansion started up in 2007, followed by the full expansion in 2008. Construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2008.
Index to Financial Statements Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings at year-end 2008 were 0.1 million acres, all offshore. A total of 2.7 net development wells were completed in the Chayvo field during the year. Phase 1 facilities include an offshore platform, onshore well site (from which extended reach horizontal drilling was completed in 2008), an onshore processing plant, an oil pipeline from Sakhalin Island to the Russian mainland, a mainland crude storage and loading terminal and an offshore loading buoy for loading shipments of oil by tanker.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2008, exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 46 million net acres were held at year-end 2008. No net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
Information with regard to mining activities follows:
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, mines a portion of the Athabasca oil sands deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta by Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline Ltd. Since start-up in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 1.9 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.
Operating License and Leases
Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine oil sands and produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on oil sands leases. Syncrude holds eight oil sands leases covering approximately 250,000 acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit which were issued by the Province of Alberta. The leases are automatically renewable as long as oil sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. The Base mine (located on lease 17) was depleted and ceased production in 2007. In the North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34), truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems are used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separate crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 830,000 tons of oil sands per day, producing 150 million barrels of crude bitumen per year. This represents recovery capability of about 93 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined oil sands.
Crude bitumen extracted from oil sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon removal in three large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen
Index to Financial Statements
addition in high-temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity, low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2008, this upgrading process yielded 0.859 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. In 2008 about 39 percent of the synthetic crude oil was processed by Edmonton area refineries and the remaining 61 percent was pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and exported, primarily to the United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and a 160 megawatt electricity generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Recycled water is the primary water source, and incremental raw water is drawn, under license, from the Athabasca River. Imperial Oil Limited’s 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities was about $2.8 billion at year-end 2008.
Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves
The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 180 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. In active mining areas, the approximate well spacing is 400 feet (150 wells per section) and in future mining areas, the well spacing is approximately 1,150 feet (20 wells per section). Proven reserves are within the operating North and Aurora mines. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are extractable oil sands in the North and Aurora mines, with average bitumen grades of 10.6 and 11.2 weight percent, respectively. After deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates that its 25 percent net share of proven reserves at year-end 2008 was equivalent to 734 million barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial’s reserve assessment uses a 6 percent and 7 percent bitumen grade cut-off for the North mine and Aurora mine respectively, a 90 percent overall extraction recovery, a 97 percent mining dilution factor and an 88 percent upgrading yield.
In 2001, the Syncrude owners endorsed a further development of the Syncrude resource in the area and expansion of the upgrading facilities. The Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion 1 project added a remote mining train and expanded the central processing and upgrading plant. This increased upgrading capacity came on stream in 2006 and increased production capacity to 355 thousand barrels of synthetic crude oil per day (gross). Additional mining trains in the North mine and Aurora mine were also completed in 2005. There are no approved plans for major future expansion projects.
On May 1, 2007, the company implemented a management services agreement under which Syncrude will be provided with operational, technical and business management services from Imperial Oil Limited and Exxon Mobil Corporation. The agreement has an initial term of 10 years and may be terminated with at least two years prior written notice.
In November 2008, Imperial Oil Limited, along with the other Syncrude joint-venture owners, signed an agreement with the Government of Alberta to amend the existing Syncrude Crown Agreement. Under the amended agreement, beginning January 1, 2010, Syncrude will begin transitioning to the new oil sands royalty regime by paying additional royalties, the exact amount of which will depend on production levels from 2010 to 2015. Also, beginning January 1, 2009, Syncrude’s royalty will be based on bitumen value with upgrading costs and revenues excluded from the calculation.
Index to Financial Statements ExxonMobil Net Proven Syncrude Reserves (1)
(1)
Net reserves are the share of reserves based on an estimate of average royalty rates over the life of the project and incorporate amendments to the Syncrude Crown Agreement.
Syncrude Operating Statistics (total operation)
(1)
Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes.
(2)
Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined oil sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor.
(3)
Reflects ExxonMobil’s 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Kearl Project
Kearl is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen. The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta. The location is currently accessible by an existing road. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent participating interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties.
Kearl will be developed in three phases. Bitumen will be extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen extraction and froth treatment plant. The product, a heavy oil blend of bitumen and diluent, will be shipped via pipelines for distribution to North American markets. Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate transportation to market by pipeline.
Operating License and Leases
The Kearl project received approvals from the Province of Alberta in 2007 and the Government of Canada in 2008. The Province of Alberta issued an operating and construction license in 2008, which permits the project to mine oil sands and produce bitumen from approved development areas on oil sands leases. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering about 48,000 acres in the Athabasca oil
Index to Financial Statements
sands deposit. The leases, which are issued by the Province of Alberta, are automatically renewable as long as the oil sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. The leases involved in the first phase of the project are 6, 87 and 88A (which contain proven reserves) and 31A, 36 and 88B (which do not currently contain proven reserves). There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Production from the first phase is expected to average approximately 110,000 barrels of bitumen a day, before royalties. About $500 million has been spent on the first phase. Activities in 2008 focused on engineering work to define the project design and execution plan. Other activities in 2008 also included site access road construction, site preparation and earthworks. Significant progress has also been made on transportation system agreements.
Kearl will be subject to the Alberta generic oil sands royalty regime, which was modified in 2007 and which will take effect in 2009. Royalty rates will be based upon a sliding scale, determined by the price of crude oil.
Operations at Kearl will involve three main processes: open-pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and diluent blending. The open-pit mining will utilize truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems. The extraction separates crude bitumen from sand through a froth processing plant. Electricity will be provided initially through the Alberta grid. Recycled water will be the primary water source, and incremental raw water will be drawn, under license, from the Athabasca River.
Proven Reserves
Bitumen deposits at Kearl are found throughout sandstones within the Lower, Middle and Upper McMurray members, concentrated primarily within the Middle and Upper McMurray members. The oil sands occur over depths ranging from approximately 30 feet to as much as 450 feet below surface. The oil sands are about 130 feet in net thickness, but can be as thick as 230 feet. Mined bitumen reserve estimates are based upon detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volumes, the mining plan, demonstrated extraction recovery factors, planned operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade of the first phase were established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling with spacing of approximately 1,400 feet (14 wells per section). The determination of reserves uses a seven percent bitumen grade cut-off by weight, a 77 percent overall extraction recovery (paraffinic froth treatment process) and a 95 percent mining dilution factor.
ExxonMobil Net Proven Kearl Reserves (1)
(1)
Net reserves are the share of reserves based on an estimate of average royalty rates over the life of the project and incorporate the Alberta oil sands royalty regime.
Information with regard to the Downstream segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Downstream segment manufactures and sells petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and feedstocks to our customers around the world.
Index to Financial Statements Refining Capacity At Year-End 2008 (1)
(1)
Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.
Index to Financial Statements
(2)
Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil’s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.
(3)
Operated by majority-owned subsidiaries.
The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world. Our Exxon, Esso, Mobil and On the Run brands serve customers at nearly 29,000 retail service stations.
Retail Sites Year-End
Index to Financial Statements Information with regard to the Chemical segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Chemical segment manufactures and sells petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.
Chemical Complex Capacity at Year-End 2008 (1) (2)
(1)
Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons.
(2)
Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil’s interest.
(3)
Net ExxonMobil ethylene capacity is 35%. Net ExxonMobil polyethylene capacity is 100%.
Item 3.