Item 2. Properties.
Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in “Note 8: Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations” and in the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities,” both included in the Financial Section of this report.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1.
Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas at Year-End 2007
Estimated proved reserves are shown in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2007, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves, see the “Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report.
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area for consolidated subsidiaries as detailed in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of December 31 prices and costs. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
Index to Financial Statements Additional detail on developed and undeveloped oil-equivalent proved reserves is shown in the table below.
In the preceding reserves information, and in the reserves tables in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation’s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2008-2012. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A - Risk Factors of this report.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.
2. Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies
During 2007, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S. Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information on Form EIA-28 is presented on the same basis as the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2006, which shows ExxonMobil’s net interests in all liquids and gas reserve volumes and changes thereto from both ExxonMobil-operated properties and properties operated by others. The data on Form EIA-23, although consistent with the data on Form EIA-28, is presented on a different basis, and includes 100 percent of the oil and gas volumes from ExxonMobil-operated properties only, regardless of the company’s net interest. In addition,
Index to Financial Statements
Form EIA-23 information does not include gas plant liquids. The difference between the oil reserves and gas reserves reported on EIA-23 and those reported in the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2006 exceeds five percent.
3. Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production
Reference is made to the “Results of Operations” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and thus are different from those shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. The volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.
4. Gross and Net Productive Wells
The numbers of wells operated at year-end 2007 were 16,797 gross wells and 13,945 net wells. At year-end 2006, the numbers of operated wells were 16,914 gross wells and 13,988 net wells.
5. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
Note: Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
Index to Financial Statements 6. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions.
7. Summary of Acreage Terms in Key Areas
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. In some instances, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada and the block in the Beaufort Sea acquired in 2007 are currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
Argentina
The onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed.
Venezuela
Until the recent Venezuelan Government actions described below, exploration and production activities were governed by Association Agreements containing risk/profit provisions negotiated with the national oil company or its affiliates. Association Agreements were awarded for a term not to
Index to Financial Statements
exceed 39 years. These agreements had an exploration and a production phase. The term of production began after the exploration phase for a duration of 20 years with the possibility of an extension, so long as the total contract term did not exceed 39 years.
Strategic association agreements (such as the Cerro Negro project) were typically limited to those projects that required vertical integration for extra heavy crude oil. Contracts were awarded for 35 years. Significant amendments to the contract terms required Venezuelan congressional approval.
On February 26, 2007, President Chavez issued Law Decree N° 5200 which mandated the Conversion of the Orinoco Belt Association Agreements (Cerro Negro) and Oil Profit Sharing Agreements (La Ceiba) into Mixed Enterprises (the “Nationalization Decree”). The Nationalization Decree further ordered the transfer of operations to PdVSA Petroleos, S. A. (PdVSA) by April 30, 2007. The ExxonMobil affiliates in Venezuela were unable to reach agreement to migrate to a Mixed Enterprise by June 26, 2007, as required by the Nationalization Decree. Assets were expropriated on June 27, 2007. On September 6, 2007, the ExxonMobil affiliates filed a Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes against Venezuela. ExxonMobil also has filed an arbitration under the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce against PdVSA and a PdVSA affiliate for breach of their contractual obligations under certain Cerro Negro Project agreements.
Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.
EUROPE
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years with possible extensions of up to three years for an indefinite period. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license. In May 2007, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired four exploration licenses over 1.3 million acres in the Lower Saxony Basin. The exploration licenses are for a period of five years during which exploration work programs will be carried out.
Netherlands
Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the Mining Law.
Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth
Index to Financial Statements
year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. ExxonMobil’s licenses issued in 2005 as part of the 23rd licensing round have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years. There is a mandatory relinquishment of 50-percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by various agreements negotiated with the national oil company and the government of Cameroon. Exploration permits are granted for terms from four to 16 years and are generally renewable for multiple periods up to four years each. Upon commercial discovery, mining concessions are issued for a period of 25 years with one 25-year extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the government. In May 2007, Chad enacted a new Petroleum Code which would govern new acquisitions.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years. A new Hydrocarbons Law was enacted in November 2006. Under the new law, the exploration terms for new production sharing contracts are expected to be four to five years with a maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.
Index to Financial Statements Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months’ written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated on one calendar year’s notice.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
Exploration and production activities are conducted offshore and are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. A 50-percent relinquishment of remaining area is mandatory at the end of each renewal period. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated). Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”.
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the government owned oil company, which is now a competing limited liability company.
Index to Financial Statements Japan
The Mining Law provides for the granting of concessions that convey exploration and production rights. Exploration rights are granted for an initial two-year period, and may be extended for two two-year periods for gas and three two-year periods for oil. Production rights have no fixed term and continue until abandonment so long as the rights holder is fulfilling its obligations.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts have an overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister’s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Recent amendments of the Oil and Gas Act provide that extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
Production sharing agreements (PSAs) negotiated with the government entitle the company to participate in exploration operations within a designated area during the exploration period. In the event of a commercial oil discovery, the company is entitled to proceed with development and production operations during the development period. The length of these periods and other specific terms are negotiated prior to executing the PSA. Existing production operations have a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration made in November 1985 for the Marib
Index to Financial Statements
PSA and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA. The Government of Yemen awarded a five-year extension of the Marib PSA, but later repudiated the extension and expelled the concession holders. The parties are now in arbitration over the validity of the extension.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
United Arab Emirates
Exploration and production activities for the major onshore oilfields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 1, 2006, for a term expiring March 9, 2026, on fiscal terms consistent with the Company’s existing interests in Abu Dhabi.
RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Kazakhstan
Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period was six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Russia
Terms for ExxonMobil’s acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in 10-year increments as specified in the PSA.
Index to Financial Statements 8. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
9. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
Index to Financial Statements B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities in Key Areas
During 2007, ExxonMobil’s activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, by ExxonMobil Exploration Company (for exploration), by ExxonMobil Development Company (for large development activities), by ExxonMobil Production Company (for producing and smaller development activities) and by ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company (for gas marketing). During this same period, some of ExxonMobil’s exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in Canada by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
Some of the more significant ongoing activities are set forth below:
UNITED STATES
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2007 acreage holdings totaled 10.7 million net acres, of which 2.1 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
During 2007, 459.7 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states and 4.0 net exploration and development wells were completed offshore in the Pacific. Tight gas development continued in the Piceance Basin of Colorado and the Barnett Shale in Texas. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 16.7 net development wells were drilled. On Alaska’s North Slope, activity continued on the Western Region Development Project (primarily the Orion field) with development drilling and engineering design for future facility expansions.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2007 was 2.0 million acres. A total of 6.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Activity on the Thunder Horse project progressed in 2007, including work to rebuild and reinstall subsea equipment resulting from the 2005 listing incident and from subsea manifold failures. Start-up is anticipated in 2008.
The Golden Pass LNG regasification terminal in Texas is under construction. The terminal will have the capacity to supply two billion cubic feet of gas per day.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2007 acreage holdings totaled 7.3 million net acres, of which 3.3 million net acres were offshore. A total of 373.8 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million onshore acres at year-end 2007, and there were 4.3 net development wells completed during the year.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil’s acreage holdings and assets were expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.
EUROPE
Germany
A total of 3.1 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2007, with 5.2 net development and exploration wells drilled during the year.
Index to Financial Statements Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.6 million acres at year-end 2007, of which 1.3 million acres were onshore. A total of 3.8 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The offshore L09 project was progressed while the Waddenzee project started up. The multi-year Groningen onshore project to renovate production clusters, install new compression to maintain capacity and extend field life continued. The project to redevelop the previously abandoned Schoonebeek oil field was approved in 2007.
Norway
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2007 totaled approximately 0.8 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 7.1 net exploration and development well completions in 2007. The Ormen Lange and Statfjord Late Life projects and the Njord Gas Export project started up in 2007. The Volve and Tyrihans projects are in progress.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2007 totaled approximately 1.6 million acres, all offshore. A total of 6.7 net development wells were completed during the year. Divestment of the mature Southern North Sea operated acreage was completed in 2007 (0.2 million acres). Significant projects progressed during the year include Starling, Caravel, and the St. Fergus gas processing facilities refurbishment. The South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Wales is anticipated to start up in 2008. The terminal will have the capacity to supply two billion cubic feet of gas per day into the natural gas grid.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2007 acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net offshore acres. 12.0 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, development drilling continued on Kizomba A and Kizomba B. The Marimba development project, which was a tie-back to the Kizomba A FPSO, started up in 2007. The Kizomba C Mondo project started up in January 2008 and will be followed by the Kizomba C Saxi/Batuque project later in the year. A block-wide 3D seismic acquisition program began in the fourth quarter of 2007. On the non-operated Block 17, the Rosa project started up in June 2007. The Pazflor project was approved in 2007. Production operations continue at Kizomba A, Kizomba B, Xikomba and the non-operated Girassol, Jasmim and Dalia fields.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil’s acreage was 0.1 million net offshore acres.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2007 acreage holdings consisted of 3.3 million onshore acres, with 19.6 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Production began from the Maikeri field.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.2 million net offshore acres at year-end 2007, with 4.9 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Index to Financial Statements Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.3 million offshore acres at year-end 2007, with 12.8 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Production was initiated from the Erha North Expansion area in December 2007. Construction continued on the ExxonMobil-operated East Area Natural Gas Liquids II project with startup planned for 2008. A 3D seismic acquisition program was initiated to both enhance resolution of existing fields and target deeper formations. Major contracts on the Usan project are expected to be awarded in early 2008.
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2007 offshore acreage holdings totaled 2.4 million offshore acres. During 2007, a total of 9.3 net exploration and development wells were drilled. The Kipper gas project was approved for development in 2007.
Indonesia
At year-end 2007, ExxonMobil had 4.9 million net acres, 4.1 million acres offshore and 0.8 million acres onshore, with 0.5 net exploration wells completed during the year. Project activities continued on the Banyu Urip development in the Cepu Contract area.
Japan
ExxonMobil’s net offshore acreage was 36 thousand acres at year-end 2007.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2007. During the year, a total of 3.5 net development wells were completed. Infill drilling wells were successfully completed at the Tabu B and Angsi platforms. Project-related drilling activity was completed at Tabu B and is currently ongoing at Tabu A. Project work continued on the Jerneh B platform installation.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.5 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2007, with 1.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on natural gas projects in Qatar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) operating companies include:
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited - (QG I)
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II) - (QG II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited - (RL I)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II) - (RL II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) - (RL 3)
In addition, ExxonMobil’s Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) Phase 1 project supplied pipeline gas to domestic industrial customers. The AKG facilities add sales gas capacity of up to 750 mcfd (millions of cubic feet per day) and produces associated condensate and LPG (Liquid Petroleum Gas). The AKG Phase 2 project is planned to add sales gas capacity of up to 1,250 mcfd, while recovering associated condensate and LPG.
Index to Financial Statements At the end of 2007, 70 (gross) wells supplied natural gas to currently-producing LNG and pipeline gas sales facilities and drilling is underway to complete wells that will supply the new QG II, RL 3 and AKG 2 projects. At year-end 2007, ExxonMobil had 1.1 million net acres, 1.0 million acres onshore and 0.1 million acres offshore. During 2007, 8.2 net development and exploration wells were completed.
Qatar LNG capacity volumes at year-end 2007 included 9.7 MTA (millions of metric tons per annum) in QG trains 1-3 and a combined 20.7 MTA in RL I trains 1-2 and RL II trains 3-5. In November 2006 production commenced at RL II train 5, with the offshore facilities completed in January 2007. Construction of QG II trains 4-5 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete. In addition, construction of RL 3 trains 6-7 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete.
The conversion factor to translate Qatar LNG volumes (millions of metric tons - MT) into gas volumes (billions of cubic feet - BCF) is dependent on the gas quality and the quality of the LNG produced. The conversion factors are approximately 46 BCF/MT for QG I trains 1-3, RL I trains 1-2, RL II train 3, and approximately 49 BCF/MT for QG II trains 4-5, RL II trains 4-5, and RL 3 trains 6-7.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end.
Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2007, with a total of 0.1 net development wells completed during the year.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi oil concessions was 0.6 million acres at year-end 2007, of which 0.4 million acres were onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore. During the year, a total of 5.2 net development and exploration wells were completed. During 2007, work progressed on multiple field development projects, both onshore and offshore, to sustain and increase oil production capacity.
RUSSIA / CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2007, ExxonMobil’s net acreage, located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan, totaled 60 thousand acres. At the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field, 0.9 net development wells were completed and production ramp-up continued. Construction continued on the Phase 3 Deep Water Gunashli project with production start up anticipated in 2008.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2007, with 0.9 net exploration and development wells completed during 2007. Initial oil production from the first expansion at Tengiz was achieved in 2007 with activities ongoing to complete the project. Construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2007.
Index to Financial Statements Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings at year-end 2007 were 0.1 million acres, all offshore. A total of 3.0 net development wells were completed in the Chayvo field during the year and Phase 1 drilling activities are continuing. Full-field production (Phase 1) began in the fourth quarter 2006. Phase 1 facilities include an offshore platform, onshore drill site for extended-reach drilling to offshore oil zones, an onshore processing plant, an oil pipeline from Sakhalin Island to the Russian mainland, a mainland terminal and an offshore loading buoy for shipment of oil by tanker.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2007, exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 45 million net acres were held at year-end 2007, and 1.0 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
Information with regard to mining activities follows:
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, mines a portion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta by Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline Ltd. Since start-up in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 1.8 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.
Operating License and Leases
Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine oil sands and produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on oil sands leases. Syncrude holds eight oil sands leases covering approximately 248,300 acres in the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit which were issued by the Province of Alberta. The leases are automatically renewable as long as oil sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. The Base mine (located on lease 17) was depleted and ceased production in 2007. In the North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34), truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems are used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separate crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 830,000 tons of oil sands a day, producing 150 million barrels of crude bitumen a year. This represents recovery capability of about 93 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined oil sands.
Index to Financial Statements Crude bitumen extracted from oil sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon removal in three large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen addition in high-temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity, low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2007, this upgrading process yielded 0.843 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. In 2007 about 38 percent of the synthetic crude oil was processed by Edmonton area refineries and the remaining 62 percent was pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and exported, primarily to the United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and a 160 megawatt electricity generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Recycled water is the primary water source, and incremental raw water is drawn, under license, from the Athabasca River. Imperial Oil Limited’s 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities was about $3.4 billion at year-end 2007.
Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves
The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 160 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. In active mining areas, the approximate well spacing is 400 feet (150 wells per section) and in future mining areas, the well spacing is approximately 1,150 feet (20 wells per section). Proven reserves are within the operating North and Aurora mines. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are extractable oil sands in the North and Aurora mines, with average bitumen grades of 10.6 and 11.2 weight percent, respectively. After deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates that its 25 percent net share of proven reserves at year-end 2007 was equivalent to 694 million barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial’s reserve assessment uses a 6 percent and 7 percent bitumen grade cut-off for the North mine and Aurora mine respectively, a 90 percent overall extraction recovery, a 97 percent mining dilution factor and an 88 percent upgrading yield.
In 2001, the Syncrude owners endorsed a further development of the Syncrude resource in the area and expansion of the upgrading facilities. The Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion 1 project added a remote mining train and expanded the central processing and upgrading plant. This increased upgrading capacity came on stream in 2006 and increased production capacity to 355 thousand barrels of synthetic crude oil per day (gross). Additional mining trains in the North mine and Aurora mine were also completed in 2005. There are no approved plans for major future expansion projects.
In 2007, the Alberta government proposed changes to the generic oil sands royalty regime beginning in 2009. The Syncrude Joint Venture owners have a Crown Agreement with the Province of Alberta that codifies the royalty rates through December 31, 2015. The Syncrude Joint Venture owners are in discussions with the Alberta government to determine if an amended agreement can be negotiated that would transition Syncrude to the new generic royalty regime before 2016.
Index to Financial Statements ExxonMobil Share of Net Proven Syncrude Reserves(1)
(1)
Net reserves are the company’s share of reserves after deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Syncrude Operating Statistics (total operation)
(1)
Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes.
(2)
Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined oil sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor.
(3)
Reflects ExxonMobil’s 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Item 3.