Item 2. Properties.
Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in the Financial Section of this report in Note 10, which note appears on page 42, and on pages 57 through 62.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows: - -------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids (millions of barrels) and Natural Gas (billions of cubic feet) at Year-End 2001
Estimated proved reserves are shown on pages 59 and 60 of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2001, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves, see page 61 of the Financial Section of this report.
2. Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies
During 2001, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S. Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information on Form EIA-28 is presented on the same basis as the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2000, which shows ExxonMobil's net interests in all liquids and gas reserve volumes and changes thereto from both ExxonMobil-operated properties and properties operated by others. The data on Form EIA-23, although consistent with the data on
Form EIA-28, is presented on a different basis, and includes 100 percent of the oil and gas volumes from ExxonMobil-operated properties only, regardless of the company's net interest. In addition, Form EIA-23 information does not include gas plant liquids. The difference between the oil reserves reported on EIA-23 and those reported in the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2000 exceeds five percent. The difference in gas reserves did not exceed five percent.
3. Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production
Reference is made to page 57 of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from our own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table on page 59 of the Financial Section of this report. The net production volumes of natural gas available for sale used in this calculation are shown on page 62 of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.
4. Gross and Net Productive Wells
Note: Year-end 2000 well counts for net oil and gas wells in the United States and gross oil and gas wells in Canada were restated.
5. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
Note: Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
6. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
7. Summary of Acreage Terms in Key Areas
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. In some instances, a "fee interest" is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in Eastern Canada is currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
EUROPE
France
Exploration permits are granted for periods of three to five years, and are renewable up to two times accompanied by substantial acreage relinquishments: 50 percent of the acreage at first renewal; 25 percent of the remaining acreage at second renewal. A 1994 law requires a bidding process prior to granting of an exploration permit. Upon discovery of commercial hydrocarbons, a production concession is granted for up to 50 years, renewable in periods of 25 years each.
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years with possible extensions of up to three years for an indefinite period. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.
Italy
Exploration permits are awarded for a period of six years, subject to specific, minimum work commitments (an exploration well is usually included). If permit obligations have been fulfilled, the titleholder of the permit is entitled to two subsequent extensions of three years each. The program of both the first and second extension period must include the drilling of a further well. Production licenses are awarded for a period of 20 years upon discovery of commercial hydrocarbons. After 15 years, the license holder can apply for an extension of ten years. After seven years of the first extension period, the license holder can apply for a further extension.
Netherlands
Onshore: Permits are issued for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the permit is issued. Production concessions are granted after discoveries have been made, under conditions that are negotiated with the government. Normally, they are field-life concessions covering an area defined by hydrocarbon occurrences.
Offshore: Prospecting licenses issued prior to March 1976 were for a 15-year period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required at the end of ten years. Prospecting licenses issued between 1976 and 1996 were for a ten-year period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required at the end of six years. Current licenses are for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the permit is issued. For commercial discoveries within a prospecting license, a production license is normally issued for a 40-year period.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to ten years and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the sixth year. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997 have an initial period of four to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, the regulations governing licenses issued between 1996 and 1998 provided for an initial term of three years with possible extensions of six, 15 and 24 years for a license period of 45 more years. After the second extension, the license must be surrendered in part. In recent licensing rounds, the initial term has generally been for six years. After possible surrender of acreage, the license may continue for 30 more years.
ASIA-PACIFIC
Australia
Onshore: Acreage terms are fixed by the individual state and territory governments. These terms and conditions vary significantly between the states and territories. Exploration permits are normally granted for a term of two to six years (in some states the Petroleum Minister fixes the term) with possible renewals and relinquishment. Production licenses in South Australia are granted for an initial term of 21 years, with subsequent renewals, each for 21 years, for the full area. Production licenses in Queensland are granted for varying periods consistent with expected field lives, with renewals on a similar basis.
Offshore: Acreage terms are fixed by the federal government beyond the three nautical mile limit offshore (applying to all of ExxonMobil's offshore acreage), in most cases by legislation, but in some cases by the Joint Authority (composed of federal and state ministers) at the time of grant. Exploration permits are granted for six years with possible renewals of five-year periods. A 50 percent relinquishment of remaining area is mandatory at the end of each renewal period. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years
and renewals may be requested. Prior to September 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter renewals at the discretion of the Joint Authority. Effective September 1998, new production licenses are to be granted "indefinitely", i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated).
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with the national oil company. However, effective November 23, 2001, pursuant to the new Oil and Gas Law, the national oil company's role as manager of upstream activities under existing and future contracts will be transferred to an upstream regulatory body (still to be established) reporting to the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources. Existing cooperation contracts will be amended to reflect the transfer of authority to the upstream regulatory body; however, the terms and conditions of the existing contracts will remain unchanged. Future cooperation contracts will be entered into with the upstream regulatory body. Regulations are being developed to implement the new law.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts have an overall term of 24 to 37 years with possible extensions to the exploration or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries must be relinquished. The development period is four to five years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period must be relinquished if no extension is granted. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Exploration licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible. Generally, a 50 percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Production licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister's discretion. Petroleum retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but that may become commercially viable. These licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended twice for a maximum retention time of 15 years.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1972 allows production under ExxonMobil's concession for 30 years (through 2021) with a possible ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by agreements negotiated with the national oil company. The concessions have various agreements with regard to license extension, terms and conditions for the exploration and production phase.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for two further five-year periods. The production term is for 30 years.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines and Energy. The exploration term is for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company. The national oil company holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (six-year initial exploration phase plus a four-year optional period) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with indigenous companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Minerals Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months' written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for on- or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months' written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by the national oil company are also subject to a mandatory 50 percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
The MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) defining commercial terms applicable to existing oil production was renegotiated and executed in 2000 and is effective for a minimum of three years with possible extensions on mutual agreement.
OTHER COUNTRIES
Abu Dhabi
Exploration and production activities are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi.
Argentina
The onshore concession terms in Argentina are two to three years for the initial exploration period, one to two years for the second exploration period and zero to one year for the third exploration period. The offshore concession terms in Argentina are four years for the initial exploration period, three years for the second exploration period and three years for the third exploration period. A 50 percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to four years. The total exploration and production term is 25 years. A ten-year extension is possible once a field has been developed.
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the area known as the Megastructure is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one- to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Kazakhstan
Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by joint-venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years with the possibility of a two-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 20 years with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field development projects. These rights permit the economic development and production of sufficient gas reserves to satisfy the gas sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
Production sharing agreements (PSAs) negotiated with the government entitle the company to participate in exploration operations, and if successful, development and production operations within a designated area, under terms negotiated prior to executing the PSA. Existing production operations have a 20-year term from first commercial declaration--made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA, and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA.
Venezuela
Exploration and production activities are governed by contracts negotiated with the national oil company. Exploration activity is covered by risk/profit sharing contracts where exploration blocks are awarded for 35 years. Production licenses are awarded for 20 years under production service agreements.
Heavy oil strategic association agreements (such as the Cerro Negro project) are typically limited to those projects that require vertical integration of the production and upgrading of extra heavy crude oil. Contracts are awarded for 35 years. Significant amendments to the contract terms require Venezuelan congressional approval.
8. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
9. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities in Key Areas
During 2001, ExxonMobil's activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, for exploration by ExxonMobil Exploration Company, for large development activities by ExxonMobil Development Company, for producing and smaller development activities by ExxonMobil Production Company, and for gas marketing by ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Company. During this same period, some of ExxonMobil's exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in California by Aera Energy, LLC, a 48.2 percent-owned ExxonMobil joint venture with Shell Oil Company, and in Canada by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
Some of the more significant ongoing activities are set forth below:
UNITED STATES
Exploration and delineation of additional hydrocarbon resources continued in 2001. At year-end 2001, ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 13.4 million net acres. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska. A total of 8.4 net exploration and delineation wells were completed during 2001.
During 2001, 662.6 net development wells were completed within and around mature fields in the inland lower 48 states. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 36.2 net development wells were drilled.
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2001 was 3.5 million acres. A total of 51.0 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year and development continued on several Gulf of Mexico projects.
. In April 2001, production began from Nile, a one well subsea development in 3,500 feet of water, tied back to the Marlin host platform.
. In June 2001, production began from the ExxonMobil-operated Mica field, a remote deepwater subsea development located in 4,500 feet water depth tied back to the Pompano host platform.
. The ExxonMobil-operated Marshall and Madison fields, located in 4,300 - 4,900 feet water depth, were tied back to the Hoover-Diana host facilities. Production started at Marshall in October 2001 and is projected to start at Madison in 2002.
. Appraisal drilling and development planning continued on the Thunder Horse discovery, the largest discovery to date in the U.S. offshore Gulf of Mexico. A floating semi-submersible platform has been selected as the design concept for the field.
CANADA
ExxonMobil's year-end acreage holdings totaled 12.0 million net acres. A total of 509.3 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
Gross production from Cold Lake averaged 128 thousand barrels per day during 2001. Field work continued on the next expansion targeted to start up in late 2002. In Eastern Canada, the Terra Nova oil development project, offshore Newfoundland, underwent final commissioning in 2001 and came on stream in early 2002. Development of the Sable Offshore Energy Project continues, with the second phase to be completed over the 2003-2006 period. ExxonMobil reached agreement with co-venturers to assume operatorship of the Sable Offshore Energy Project in late 2001, and assumed operatorship on February 1, 2002.
EUROPE
France
ExxonMobil's acreage at year-end 2001 was 0.8 million net acres, with 0.5 net development wells completed during the year.
Germany
A total of 2.5 million net acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2001, with 1.6 net development wells drilled during the year.
Italy
ExxonMobil's acreage was 0.3 million net acres at year-end 2001.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil's interest in licenses totaled 2.1 million net acres at year-end 2001. During 2001, 2.9 net exploration and development wells were drilled.
Norway
ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2001 totaled 1.2 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 11.4 net exploration and development well completions in 2001. Production was initiated on Ringhorne and Snorre B in 2001. Field development projects at Sigyn, Mikkel, Grane and Fram West are in progress.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2001 totaled approximately 2.5 million acres, all offshore. A total of 23.9 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Several projects started up including Skene, Brigantine, Elgin/Franklin and Kestrel. Several projects were underway including Penguins, Madoes, Mirren, Maclure and Otter.
ASIA-PACIFIC
Australia
ExxonMobil's net year-end 2001 acreage holdings totaled 6.5 million acres. ExxonMobil drilled a total of 21.8 net exploration and development wells in 2001, both offshore and onshore. Construction of a gas pipeline in the offshore Gippsland Basin from the Bream A platform to shore commenced in 2001.
Indonesia
ExxonMobil had acreage of 7.4 million net acres at year-end 2001, with 3.0 exploration wells completed during the year.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 1.2 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2001. During the year, a total of 27.7 net exploration and development wells were completed. Development and infill drilling were successfully completed at three platforms, Seligi-E,
Bekok-C and Dulang-B. First oil was produced from the Angsi-A platform in December 2001 and from the Larut field in February 2002. Development projects are currently in progress at Bintang and Tapis-F. These are scheduled for installation and start-up in the 2002 to 2003 timeframe.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.6 million net acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2001, with 0.7 net development wells completed during the year. Work continued on the Moran field development project.
Thailand
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Khorat concession totaled 15 thousand net acres at year-end 2001.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil's year-end 2001 acreage holdings totaled 3.6 million net acres and 5.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Girassol field in Block 17 started production in late 2001. Construction has begun on ExxonMobil-operated Kizomba A on Block 15, the first of several projects planned on this block. In addition, engineering and design work was initiated on Dalia, a non-operated Block 17 discovery.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 0.3 million net acres at year-end 2001, with 1.3 net development wells completed during the year. The D1b field is under development with first oil planned by early 2002.
Chad
ExxonMobil's net year-end 2001 acreage holdings consisted of 4.1 million acres. Construction has commenced on the Chad-Cameroon oil development and pipeline project, which will develop discovered oil fields in landlocked southern Chad and transport produced oil to the coast of Cameroon.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 0.6 million net acres at year-end 2001, with 5.1 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 1.4 million acres at year-end 2001, with 18.6 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Initial production is expected from the ExxonMobil- operated Yoho project by late 2002. Development is underway at the Bonga field (OML 118) and development planning continues for the ExxonMobil-operated Erha (OPL 209) discovery. Expected start-up is 2004 for Bonga and 2005 for Erha.
OTHER COUNTRIES
Abu Dhabi
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the onshore oil concession was 0.5 million acres at year-end 2001. During the year, 4.8 net development wells were completed.
Argentina
ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 0.4 net million acres at year-end 2001, with 5.2 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2001, ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.2 million acres located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan. During the year, 0.6 net exploration and development wells were completed.
At the Megastructure Early Oil project, water injection to support reservoir pressure is ongoing, with additional producers and injectors planned for 2002. The next phase of development on the Megastructure was approved in 2001. Engineering and construction efforts have begun on the Phase I platform, with production expected by late 2005.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.4 million acres at year-end 2001, with 1.7 net exploration and development wells completed during 2001. Production capacity from the Tengiz field has increased with the full year impact of the fifth processing train and the implementation of gas handling debottlenecking projects. Development planning to further increase production is ongoing.
The Caspian Pipeline Consortium pipeline for transporting oil from Tengiz, and other Caspian fields and nearby areas, to the Russian Black Sea port of Novorossiysk started up in late 2001. The pipeline will mitigate the high cost of rail and barge transportation.
Appraisal and initial development planning continue for the offshore Kashagan discovery.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on two major Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) projects in Qatar--Qatargas (Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited) and RasGas (Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Ltd.). The Qatargas LNG facilities have three LNG trains with a total combined sales capacity of 7.4 MTA (million metric tons per annum) of LNG plus associated condensate. In October 2001, Qatargas awarded Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contracts for the debottlenecking of the three LNG trains, which will increase total sales capacity to 8.9 MTA by 2005. The RasGas LNG facilities have two LNG trains with a total combined sales capacity of 6.6 MTA of LNG plus associated condensate. In an ongoing effort to expand LNG sales capacity from Qatar, in April 2001, RasGas awarded an EPC contract for a third LNG train with sales capacity of 4.7 MTA of LNG plus associated condensate as part of the RasGas Expansion Project.
In addition to the two existing LNG projects in Qatar, the Enhanced Gas Utilization (EGU) project will provide 1.75 billion cubic feet per day of gas sales plus associated condensate production and liquefied petroleum gases (LPGs) exports from Qatar's North Field. Engineering and design of the EGU gas production facilities were completed in 2000 with engineering and design of the associated natural gas liquids fractionation and LPG export facilities continuing through 2001. Gas from the EGU project is targeted for domestic use and inter-regional sales via pipeline. An agreement in principle on key terms to supply Kuwait with Qatari gas from the EGU project was announced in January 2002. A memorandum of understanding was signed with Bahrain for additional pipeline sales from the EGU project.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 0.9 million acres onshore at year-end 2001. During the year, 4.4 net development wells were completed.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.3 million acres at year-end 2001 with 16.0 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The Cerro Negro heavy oil project began production in 1999 and the Central Processing Facility was completed in the fourth quarter 2000. Construction activities on the Upgrader Facility at the Jose Industrial Complex were completed mid-2001 and the entire project was officially inaugurated in September 2001.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2001 exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations. A total of 25.8 million net acres were held at year-end 2001, and 6.8 net exploration wells were completed during the year.
Information with regard to mining activities follows: - ----------------------------------------------------
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of tar sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, exploits a portion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta in the Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline owned by the Pembina Oil Sands Pipeline Limited Partnership. Since start-up in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 1.3 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.
Operating License and Leases
Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine tar sands and produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on tar sands leases. Syncrude holds eight tar sands leases covering approximately 255,000 acres in the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. Issued by the Province of Alberta, the leases are automatically renewable as long as tar sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta's Department of Resource Development. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. In the Base mine (lease 17), the mining and transportation system uses draglines, bucketwheel reclaimers and belt conveyors. In the North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34) truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems are used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separate crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 545,000 tons of tar sands a day, producing 110 million barrels of crude bitumen a year. This represents recovery capability of about 92 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined tar sands.
Crude bitumen extracted from tar sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon removal in two large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen
addition in high-temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity, low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2001, this upgrading process yielded 0.845 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. About two-thirds of the synthetic crude oil is processed by Edmonton area refineries and the remaining one-third is pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and the mid-western United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and an 80 megawatt electricity generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Imperial Oil Limited's 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities was $750 million at year end 2001.
Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves
The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 160 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, historical extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. Proven reserves include the operating Base and North mines and the Aurora mine. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are an estimated 3,500 million tons of extractable tar sands in the Base and North mines, with an average bitumen grade of 10.4 weight percent. In addition, at the Aurora mine, there are an estimated 4,090 million tons of extractable tar sands at an average bitumen grade of 11.3 weight percent. After deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates that its 25 percent net share of proven reserves at year end 2001 was equivalent to 821 million barrels of synthetic crude oil.
In 2001, the Syncrude owners endorsed a further development of the Syncrude resource in the area and expansion of the upgrading facilities. The Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion 1 project adds a remote mining development and expands the central processing and upgrading plant. This expansion increases proven Syncrude reserves by 230 million barrels and will lead to total production of about 370 thousand barrels of synthetic crude oil per day (gross) when completed.
ExxonMobil Share of Net Proven Syncrude Reserves(1)
- -------- (1) Net reserves are the company's share of reserves after deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Syncrude Operating Statistics (total operation)
- -------- (1) Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes. (2) Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined tar sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor. (3) Reflects ExxonMobil's 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Item 3.