Item 2. Properties
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1. Disclosure of Reserves
A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at Year-End 2012
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated subsidiaries and equity companies. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the last 12-month period. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2012, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.
(1) South America includes proved developed reserves of 0.4 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 57 billion cubic feet of natural gas and proved undeveloped reserves of 0.6 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 65 billion cubic feet of natural gas.
In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation’s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2013-2017. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A - Risk Factors of this report.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.
B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2012
Additions to ExxonMobil’s proved reserves in 2012 were based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate geological, engineering and production data, utilizing well-established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and consistent results.
Data used in these integrated assessments included information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure information, production test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained through indirect measurements including high-quality 2-D and 3-D seismic data, calibrated with available well control information. The tools used to interpret the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data analysis packages.
In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.
C. Qualifications of Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves
ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that provides technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization. Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting of ExxonMobil’s proved reserves. This group also maintains the official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil’s proved reserves of crude and natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition, the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The group is managed by and staffed with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of technical experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology. Several members of the group hold professional registrations in their field of expertise, and several have served on the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
The Global Reserves group maintains a central database containing the official company global reserves estimates. Appropriate controls, including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place to ensure data integrity within this central database. An annual review of the system’s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis of well and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be made to the reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed certain thresholds require further review and approval of the appropriate level of management within the operating organization before the changes may be made in the central database. Endorsement by the Global Reserves group for all proved reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews are held with senior management for final endorsement.
2. Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At year-end 2012, approximately 9.9 billion oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil’s proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. This represents 39 percent of the 25.2 GOEB reported in proved reserves. This compares to the 8.8 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported at the end of 2011. The net increase is primarily due to the addition of new projects in
Canada and the United States. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted development activities in over 100 fields that resulted in the transfer of approximately 0.5 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year-end. The largest transfers were related to completion of drilling and the initiation of production activities in unconventional fields in the United States and on new pad locations in the Cold Lake field in Canada.
One of ExxonMobil’s requirements for reporting proved reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy and many major fields require long lead-time in order to be developed. Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of first recording of proved reserves to the start of production of these reserves. However, the development time for large and complex projects can exceed five years. During 2012, discoveries and extensions related to new projects added approximately 1.3 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. The largest of these additions were related to planned drilling in the United States. Overall, investments of $24.8 billion were made by the Corporation during 2012 to progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including $21.7 billion for oil and gas producing activities and an additional $3.1 billion for other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the construction of support infrastructure and other related facilities that were undertaken to progress the development of proved undeveloped reserves. These investments represented 69 percent of the $36.1 billion in total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.
Proved undeveloped reserves in Canada, Kazakhstan, the United States, and the Netherlands have remained undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity of infrastructure and the pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well as the time required to complete development for very large projects. The Corporation is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance and regulatory approvals. Of the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years, 57 percent are contained in four fields in Canada, Kazakhstan and the Netherlands. The largest of these is related to the Kearl project in Canada, where construction of the initial development was completed during 2012 and phased start-up activities were under way. In Kazakhstan, the proved undeveloped reserves are related to the initial development of the offshore Kashagan field which is included in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement and the Tengizchevroil joint venture which includes a production license in the Tengiz - Korolev field complex. The Tengizchevroil joint venture is producing, and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to move to proved developed as approved development phases progress. The fourth field is the Groningen gas field in the Netherlands. Proved undeveloped reserves reported for this field are related to installation of future stages of compression. These reserves will move to proved developed when the additional stages of compression are installed to maintain field delivery pressure. The remainder of proved undeveloped reserves are contained in over 140 fields in 16 countries.
3. Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
A. Oil and Gas Production
The table below summarizes production by final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.
(1) South America includes liquids production for 2012, 2011 and 2010 of one thousand barrels daily for each year and natural gas production available for sale for 2012, 2011 and 2010 of 38 million, 45 million, and 52 million cubic feet daily, respectively.
B. Production Prices and Production Costs
The table below summarizes average production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by product type for the last three years.
Average production prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section 3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A. The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies
Syncrude Operations. Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32 degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2012, the company’s share of net production of synthetic crude oil was about 69 thousand barrels per day and share of net acreage was about 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.
Kearl Project. The Kearl project is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering about 48 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.
The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, and is expected to be developed in two phases. Bitumen will be extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen extraction and froth treatment plant. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is planned to be shipped via pipelines for distribution to North American markets. Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate transportation to market by pipeline. At year-end 2012, the construction of the initial development of the Kearl project was complete and phased start-up activities were under way. Construction on the Kearl Expansion project continued during 2012.
5. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities
UNITED STATES
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled 15.6 million net acres, of which 2.2 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
During 2012, 1,142.7 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states. Development activities focused on the San Joaquin Basin of California, the Woodford Shale of Oklahoma, the Bakken oil play in North Dakota and Montana, the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico, the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the Haynesville Shale of Texas and Louisiana, the Barnett Shale of North Texas, the Fayetteville Shale of Arkansas, and the Freestone Trend of East Texas.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2012 was 2.1 million acres. A total of 2.6 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Development activities continued on the deepwater Hadrian South project and the non-operated Lucius project.
Participation in Alaska production and development continued with a total of 15.0 net development wells completed. The Point Thomson project was funded by ExxonMobil in 2012.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Oil and Gas Operations: ExxonMobil's year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled 5.2 million net acres, of which 1.5 million net acres were offshore. A total of 44.1 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Hebron project, located offshore Newfoundland, was funded in 2012. ExxonMobil entered into an agreement in 2012 to acquire Celtic Exploration Ltd.
In Situ Bitumen Operations: ExxonMobil's year-end 2012 in situ bitumen acreage holdings totaled 0.5 million net onshore acres. A total of 31.0 net development wells were completed during the year. The Cold Lake Nabiye Expansion project was funded in 2012.
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.0 million onshore acres at year-end 2012, and there was 0.5 net development well completed during the year.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil’s acreage holdings and assets were expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 16: Litigation and Other Contingencies” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.
EUROPE
Germany
A total of 4.9 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2012, with 6.1 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.5 million acres at year-end 2012, of which 1.2 million acres are onshore. A total of 5.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
Norway
ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2012 totaled approximately 1.0 million acres, all offshore. A total of 6.2 net exploration and development wells were completed in 2012.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2012 totaled approximately 0.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 0.9 net development wells were completed during the year. The offshore Fram project was funded in 2012.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled 0.4 million net offshore acres and 5.4 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, Kizomba Satellites Phase 1 started up, and Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 was funded in 2012. On the non-operated Block 17, work continued on the Cravo-Lirio-Orquidea-Violeta project. ExxonMobil sold its interest in the non-operated Block 31 in 2012.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2012 acreage holdings consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 26.8 net development wells completed during the year.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.1 million net offshore acres at year-end 2012.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.9 million offshore acres at year-end 2012, with 7.8 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The Satellite Field Development Phase 1 and the deepwater Usan projects started up in 2012.
ASIA
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2012, ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 0.4 net development wells were completed during the year. Work continued on the Chirag Oil project.
Indonesia
At year-end 2012, ExxonMobil had 5.5 million net acres, 3.4 million net acres offshore and 2.1 million net acres onshore. A total of 2.3 net exploration wells were completed during the year. Project work continued on the full field development at Banyu Urip.
Iraq
At year-end 2012, ExxonMobil’s onshore acreage was 0.9 million net acres. A total of 21.6 net development wells were completed at the West Qurna Phase I oil field during the year. In 2010, a contract was signed with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil to redevelop and expand the West Qurna Phase I oil field. The term of the contract is 20 years with the right to extend for five years. In 2010 initial field rehabilitation activities commenced. Field rehabilitation activities continued during 2012, and across the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of existing wells, optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities, and the establishment of field offices and camps.
Production sharing contracts were negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011, and planning of activities continued during 2012.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2012. A total of 0.2 net development wells were completed during 2012. Working with our partners, construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2012.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.4 million net acres offshore at year-end 2012. During the year, a total of 6.9 net exploration and development wells were completed. The Damar project was funded in 2012, and work continued on the Tapis and Telok projects.
Qatar
Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum, ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2012. During the year, a total of 1.4 net development wells were completed. ExxonMobil participated in 61.8 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural gas capacity at year end. Development activities continued on the Barzan project.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2012.
Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings at year-end 2012 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 0.6 net development wells were completed. Development activities continued on the Arkutun-Dagi project during 2012.
ExxonMobil and Rosneft signed a Strategic Cooperation Agreement in 2011 to jointly participate in exploration and development activities in Russia, the United States and other parts of the world. In 2012 ExxonMobil and Rosneft signed a Pilot Development Agreement to evaluate the development of tight-oil reserves in western Siberia and signed an agreement to establish a joint Arctic Research Center.
Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2012.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2012, with 0.6 net development wells completed during the year.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi onshore oil concession was 0.5 million acres at year-end 2012, of which 0.4 million acres are onshore. During the year, a total of 5.6 net development wells were completed.
AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA
Australia
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2012 acreage holdings totaled 1.8 million net acres, of which 1.6 million net acres were offshore. During the year, a total of 1.1 net exploration wells were completed.
Project construction activity for the co-venturer operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in 2012. The project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and transportation of the gas, and a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and a 280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island, Western Australia.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.9 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2012, with 1.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Work continued on the Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG project. The project consists of conditioning facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, a 6.9 million tonnes per year LNG facility near Port Moresby and approximately 434 miles of onshore and offshore pipelines.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2012, exploration activities were under way in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 35.3 million net acres were held at year-end 2012, and 2.1 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
6. Delivery Commitments
ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations under a variety of contractual obligations, some of which may specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity for periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can be a combination of our own production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately 3,000 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2013 through 2015. We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases as necessary.
7. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
A. Gross and Net Productive Wells
There were 37,228 gross and 31,264 net operated wells at year-end 2012 and 37,692 gross and 31,683 net operated wells at year-end 2011. The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,647 gross in 2012 and 1,775 gross in 2011.
B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
(1) Includes developed acreage in South America of 618 gross and 202 net thousands of acres for 2012 and 2011.
Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
(1) Includes undeveloped acreage in South America of 8,412 gross and 4,484 net thousands of acres for 2012 and 10,922 gross and 5,680 net thousands of acres for 2011.
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.
D. Summary of Acreage Terms
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some instances, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible. These licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or leases upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease agreements are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases. Exploration licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held by work commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a maximum term of nine years. Production licenses in the offshore are valid for 25 years, with rights of extension for continued production. Significant discovery licenses in the offshore, relating to currently undeveloped discoveries, do not have a definite term.
Argentina
The federal onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed. Argentine provinces are entitled to modify the concession terms granted within their territories. The concession terms of the exploration permits granted by Neuquen Province are up to six years for the initial exploration period, up to four years for the second exploration period and up to three years for the third exploration period depending on the classification of the area. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to one year.
EUROPE
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.
Netherlands
Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the Mining Law.
Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate in all other areas. The licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the government.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years, while the production period for gas is 50 years. Under the Hydrocarbons Law enacted in 2006, the exploration terms for new production sharing contracts are four to five years with a maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further renewal option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated on one calendar year’s notice.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
ASIA
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012, Indonesia’s Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to BPMIGAS to be unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with BPMIGAS should remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties previously performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry of the Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law. The current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended up to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require the contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area after three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50 percent to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending on the acreage and terms.
Iraq
Development and production activities in the state-owned oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in the development and production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years with the right to extend for five years. The contract provides for cost recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified levels.
Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for five years with the possibility of two-year extensions. The production period is 20 years with the right to extend for five years.
Kazakhstan
Onshore exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the national oil company for a new PSC, which was subsequently signed in 2009. Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company was entitled to undertake new development and production activities in oil fields under an existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and spending commitments, including an enhanced oil recovery project in one of the oil fields. When the existing PSC expired on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC automatically became part of the new PSC, which has a 25-year duration from April 2008.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in June 1995.
Russia
Terms for ExxonMobil’s acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in ten-year increments as specified in the PSA.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
United Arab Emirates
Exploration and production activities for the major onshore oil fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 2006, for a term expiring March 2026.
AUSTRALIA/OCEANIA
Australia
Exploration and production activities conducted offshore in Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”. In each case, a production license may be terminated if no production operations have been carried on for five years.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister’s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.
Information with regard to the Downstream segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Downstream segment manufactures and sells petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and feedstocks to our customers around the world.
Refining Capacity At Year-End 2012 (1)
(1) Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.
(2) Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil’s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.
The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world through our Exxon, Esso and Mobil brands.
Retail Sites At Year-End 2012
Information with regard to the Chemical segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Chemical segment manufactures and sells petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.
Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2012 (1)(2)
(1) Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.
(2) Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil’s interest.
Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012
The captioned Act was signed by President Obama on August 10, 2012. Among other things, the Act extended the prohibition against U.S. persons doing business with the Government of Iran to include such persons’ non-U.S. subsidiaries. Previously, non-U.S. subsidiaries were not covered by this restriction. Application of the restriction to non-U.S. subsidiaries took effect on October 10, 2012. The Act also requires registrants to disclose, in their annual and quarterly reports, activities covered by the Act which occurred anytime during the period covered by the report, even if such activities occurred prior to the effective date of the Act and were permitted at the time.
During the period from January to September, 2012, ExxonMobil’s majority-owned Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil Limited (IOL), made several fleet sales of motor fuel with an aggregate total sales price of approximately 11,000 Canadian dollars to the Iranian Embassy in Canada. IOL’s net profits attributable to these sales were less than 500 Canadian dollars. The sales were made without the involvement of any U.S. person and were permitted by U.S. laws in effect at the time. No sales occurred after the October 10, 2012, effective date, and we do not expect any such sales to occur in the future.
The embassy sales stated above represent an activity described in paragraph (D)(iii) of paragraph (1) of Section 13(r) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and therefore are excluded from the required investigation provisions of that statute.
Item 3.