Item 2. Properties.
Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in the Financial Section of this report in note 8, which note appears on page 60, and on pages 76 through 85.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1.
Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas at Year-End 2005
Estimated proved reserves are shown on pages 80 through 83 of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2005, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves, see pages 84 and 85 of the Financial Section of this report.
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area for consolidated subsidiaries as detailed on pages 80 through 83 of the Financial Section of this report for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Corporation has reported 2004 and 2005 proved reserves on the basis of December 31 prices and costs. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
Additional detail on developed and undeveloped oil-equivalent proved reserves is shown in the table below.
Index to Financial Statements In the preceding reserves information, and in the reserves tables on pages 80 through 83 of the Financial Section of this report, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same views of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation’s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2006-2010. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, severe weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A - Risk Factors of this report.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and ultimate recovery can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long term oil and gas price levels.
2. Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies
During 2005, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S. Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information on Form EIA-28 is presented on the same basis as the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004, which shows ExxonMobil’s net interests in all liquids and gas reserve volumes and changes thereto from both ExxonMobil-operated properties and properties operated by others. The data on Form EIA-23, although consistent with the data on Form EIA-28, is presented on a different basis, and includes 100 percent of the oil and gas volumes from ExxonMobil-operated properties only, regardless of the company’s net interest. In addition, Form EIA-23 information does not include gas plant liquids. The difference between the oil reserves and gas reserves reported on EIA-23 and those reported in the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004 exceeds five percent.
3. Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production
Reference is made to pages 76 and 77 of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table on page 81 of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and thus are different from those shown in the reserves table on page 82 of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. The volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.
Index to Financial Statements 4. Gross and Net Productive Wells
The numbers of wells operated at year-end 2005 were 17,351 gross wells and 14,028 net wells. At year-end 2004, the numbers of operated wells were 18,427 gross wells and 15,216 net wells.
5. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
Note: Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
6. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions.
Index to Financial Statements 7. Summary of Acreage Terms in Key Areas
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. In some instances, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada is currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
EUROPE
France
Exploration permits are granted for periods of three to five years, and are renewable up to two times accompanied by substantial acreage relinquishments: 50 percent of the acreage at first renewal; 25 percent of the remaining acreage at second renewal. A 1994 law requires a bidding process prior to granting of an exploration permit. Upon discovery of commercial hydrocarbons, a production concession is granted for up to 50 years, renewable in periods of 25 years each.
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years with possible extensions of up to three years for an indefinite period. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.
Netherlands
Under the new Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the Mining Law.
Exploration and production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003 remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas.
Onshore: Exploration licenses were issued for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license was issued. Production concessions are granted after discoveries have been made, under conditions that are negotiated with the government. Normally, they are field-life concessions covering an area defined by hydrocarbon occurrences.
Offshore: Exploration licenses issued between 1976 and 1996 were for a ten-year period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required at the end of six years. Exploration licenses granted after that time were for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the permit was issued. Production licenses are normally issued for a 40-year period.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth
Index to Financial Statements
year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997 have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds, provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. ExxonMobil’s licenses issued in 2005 as part of the 23rd licensing round have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and final term of 18 years. There is a mandatory relinquishment of 50-percent of acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by various agreements negotiated with the national oil company and the government of Cameroon. Exploration permits are granted for terms from four to 16 years and are generally renewable for multiple periods up to four years each. Upon commercial discovery, mining concessions are issued for a period of 25 years with one 25-year extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the government.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL.
Index to Financial Statements
Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months’ written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50 percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production was renegotiated and executed in 2000. The MOU is effective for a minimum of three years with possible extensions on mutual agreement and is terminable on one calendar year’s notice.
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
Exploration and production activities are conducted offshore and are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits granted before January 1, 2003, were issued for six years with three possible five-year renewal periods. Exploration permits granted after that date are issued for six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. A 50-percent relinquishment of remaining area is mandatory at the end of each renewal period. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to September 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter renewals at the discretion of the Joint Authority, comprising Federal and State Ministers. Effective from September 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated).
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the government owned oil company, which is now a competing limited liability company.
Japan
The Mining Law provides for the granting of concessions that convey exploration and production rights. Exploration rights are granted for an initial two-year period, and may be extended for two two-year periods for gas and three two-year periods for oil. Production rights have no fixed term and continue until abandonment so long as the rights holder is fulfilling its obligations.
Index to Financial Statements Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts have an overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on whether deep water areas or otherwise, with possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended twice for a maximum retention time of 15 years.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
Production sharing agreements (PSAs) negotiated with the government entitle the company to participate in exploration operations within a designated area during the exploration period. In the event of a commercial oil discovery, the company is entitled to proceed with development and production operations during the development period. The length of these periods and other specific terms are negotiated prior to executing the PSA. Existing production operations have a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA. The Government of Yemen awarded a five-year extension of the Marib PSA, but later repudiated the extension and expelled the concession holders. The parties are now in arbitration over the validity of the extension.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a possible ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
United Arab Emirates
Exploration and production activities in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi.
Index to Financial Statements RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Kazakhstan
Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years with possible extensions. The production period, which includes development, is for 20 years with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Russia
Terms for ExxonMobil’s acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in 10-year increments as specified in the PSA.
SOUTH AMERICA
Argentina
The onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed.
Venezuela
Exploration and production activities are governed by Association Agreements containing risk/profit provisions negotiated with the national oil company or its affiliates. Association Agreements are awarded for a term not to exceed 39 years. These agreements have an exploration and a production phase. The term of production begins after the exploration phase and runs for 20 years with the possibility of an extension, so long as the total contract term does not exceed 39 years.
Strategic association agreements (such as the Cerro Negro project) are typically limited to those projects that require vertical integration for extra heavy crude oil. Contracts are awarded for 35 years. Significant amendments to the contract terms require Venezuelan congressional approval.
Index to Financial Statements 8. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
9. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
Index to Financial Statements B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities in Key Areas
During 2005, ExxonMobil’s activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, by ExxonMobil Exploration Company (for exploration), by ExxonMobil Development Company (for large development activities), by ExxonMobil Production Company (for producing and smaller development activities) and by ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company (for gas marketing). During this same period, some of ExxonMobil’s exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in Canada by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
Some of the more significant ongoing activities are set forth below:
UNITED STATES
Exploration and delineation of additional hydrocarbon resources continued in 2005. At year-end 2005, ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 11.7 million net acres, of which 3.0 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
During 2005, 514.3 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states and 9.0 net development wells were completed offshore in the Pacific. An acid gas injection project was started up to increase existing plant capacity at the Shute Creek treating facility in La Barge, Wyoming, and tight gas development continues in the Piceance Basin of Colorado. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 23.7 net exploration and development wells were drilled. On Alaska’s North Slope, activity continued on the Western Region Development Project (primarily the Orion field) with development drilling and engineering design for facility expansions.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2005 was 2.8 million acres. A total of 16.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Installation of the semi-submersible production and drilling vessel, along with infrastructure to transport future oil and gas production onshore, continued for the Thunder Horse development in 2005. Startup, delayed due to a listing incident, is anticipated to occur in 2006.
CANADA
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2005 acreage holdings totaled 7.1 million net acres, of which 3.1 million net acres were offshore. A total of 266.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. In eastern Canada, work continued on the Sable Compression project.
EUROPE
France
ExxonMobil’s acreage at year-end 2005 was 0.1 million net onshore acres.
Germany
A total of 2.3 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2005, with 7.6 net exploration and development wells drilled during the year.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s interest in licenses totaled 1.9 million net acres at year-end 2005, 1.5 million acres onshore and 0.4 million acres offshore. During 2005, 1.8 net exploration and development wells were
Index to Financial Statements
drilled. Offshore, the first unmanned minimum facility monotower platform was successfully located on the K17-FA field. Onshore, a multi-year project is underway to renovate production clusters and install new compression to maintain capacity and extend field life.
Norway
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2005 totaled approximately 1.0 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 7.7 net exploration and development well completions in 2005. Production was initiated at the Oseberg J field in June, the Aasgard Q field in August and the Kristin field in November 2005. The Sleipner A low pressure project and Ringhorne East, Oseberg Vestflanken, Fram East and Ormen Lange field developments are in progress.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2005 totaled approximately 2.1 million acres, all offshore. A total of 9.4 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Arthur project commenced production in early 2005. Other projects progressed in 2005 include Caravel, Cutter, Merganser and Starling.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2005 acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net offshore acres and 12.0 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, production began in July from the Kizomba B development and design work is complete on the Marimba development, which will tie-back to the Kizomba A Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel. Planning for the Kizomba C development is ongoing. A block-wide 4D seismic acquisition program started late in the year. On Block 17, construction is underway on the Dalia and Rosa developments.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.3 million net offshore acres at year-end 2005.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2005 acreage holdings consisted of 3.3 million onshore acres, with 35.6 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Development of the Moundouli field is in progress.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.4 million net offshore acres at year-end 2005, with 4.5 net development wells completed during the year.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.6 million offshore acres at year-end 2005, with 17.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The ExxonMobil-operated Yoho field (OML 104) early production system was expanded, and the full field production platform was installed. The ExxonMobil-operated East Area Additional Oil Recovery platform was also installed, and detailed design and construction began on the ExxonMobil-operated East Area NGL II project. Production began in 2005 at the deepwater Bonga field (OML 118). Drilling continued at the ExxonMobil-operated deepwater Erha field (OPL 209), and the Erha FPSO vessel arrived. Construction continued on the
Index to Financial Statements
Amenam-Kpono Phase 2 Gas project and Front End Engineering and Design (FEED) work was initiated on the deepwater Usan field (OPL 222).
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2005 acreage holdings totaled 1.2 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil drilled a total of 11.4 net exploration and development wells in 2005.
Indonesia
ExxonMobil had acreage of 2.5 million net acres at year-end 2005, 1.7 million acres offshore and 0.8 million acres onshore.
The production sharing contract for the Cepu Contract Area was signed in September 2005 by PT Pertamina (Persero) and ExxonMobil and approved by the Government of Indonesia. The term of the contract is 30 years. PT Pertamina (Persero) and ExxonMobil are currently working on the Joint Operation Agreement (JOA).
Japan
ExxonMobil’s net offshore acreage was 36 thousand acres at year-end 2005.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2005. During the year, a total of 25.6 net development wells were completed. Development and infill drilling wells were successfully completed at six platforms: Guntong-F, Irong Barat-C, Tapis-C, Semangkok-B, Angsi-A and Tiong-A. First oil was produced from the Guntong-F and Irong Barat-C platforms in 2005. Drilling activities are currently ongoing at Jerneh-A.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.5 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2005, with 0.6 net development wells completed during the year.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on natural gas projects in Qatar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) operating companies include:
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited - (QG I)
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II) - (QG II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited - (RL I)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II) - (RL II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) - (RL 3)
In addition, production commenced in 2005 for ExxonMobil’s Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) project which supplies pipeline gas to domestic industrial customers. The AKG project will have a target peak production rate of 675 million of cubic feet per day (gross) and produce associated condensate, and commencing in early 2006 will produce LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas).
At the end of 2005, 54 (gross) wells supplied natural gas to currently producing LNG and pipeline gas sales facilities and drilling is underway to complete wells that will supply the new QG II, RL II and RL 3 projects. A total of 9.1 net exploration and development wells were completed in 2005.
Index to Financial Statements Qatar LNG capacity volumes at year-end included 9.7 MTA (millions of metric tons per annum) in QG I Trains 1-3 and a combined 16.0 MTA in RL I Trains 1-2 and RL II Trains 3-4. During 2005, production commenced at RL II Train 4, and an expansion project was completed to increase the capacity of QG I Trains 1-3 to 9.7 MTA. Construction of QG II Trains 4-5 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete. In addition, construction of RL II Train 5 and RL 3 Trains 6-7 will add planned capacity of 4.7 MTA and 15.6 MTA, respectively, when complete.
The conversion factor to translate Qatar LNG volumes (millions of metric tons - MT) into gas volumes (billions of cubic feet - BCF) is dependent on the gas quality and the quality of the LNG produced. The conversion factors are approximately 46 BCF/MT for QG I Trains 1-3, RL I Trains 1-2, RL II Trains 3 and 5, and approximately 49 BCF/MT for QG II Trains 4-5, RL II Train 4, and RL 3 Trains 6-7.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 9.5 thousand acres onshore at year-end. During the year, 1.1 net development wells were drilled and completed.
Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2005.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi oil concession was 0.5 million acres at year-end 2005, 0.4 million acres onshore and 0.1 million acres offshore. During the year, 6.7 net development wells were completed. The Bab Facility expansion project was completed and commissioning activities were begun for the Northeast Bab Phase I development project.
RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2005, ExxonMobil’s net acreage, located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan, totaled 0.1 million acres. During the year, 0.7 net development wells were completed. At the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (ACG) development, the first phase of full-field development at Central Azeri came online in March 2005 and full-field oil production increased to 400 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) by year-end. Commissioning of the second phase at West Azeri was in-progress at year-end, and construction is under way on the third phase at Deep Water Gunashli.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.3 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2005, with 3.2 net exploration and development wells completed during 2005. At Tengiz, construction of the 300 thousand barrels of oil per day (gross) expansion project continued through 2005. Engineering and construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2005.
Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings at year-end 2005 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 3.6 net development wells were completed in the Chayvo field during the year. Production from the
Index to Financial Statements
field began in October 2005 through an early production system for domestic Russian oil and gas sales. Construction and drilling activities are progressing on Phase 1 full-field production and export systems. Phase 1 facilities include an offshore platform, onshore drill site for extended-reach drilling to offshore oil zones, an onshore processing plant, an oil pipeline from Sakhalin Island to the Russian mainland and a mainland terminal for shipment of oil by tanker.
SOUTH AMERICA
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million onshore acres at year-end 2005, and there were 1.5 net development wells completed during the year.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2005 acreage holdings totaled 0.1 million onshore acres, with 7.1 net development wells completed during the year.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2005, exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 42.8 net million acres were held at year-end 2005, and 0.8 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
Information with regard to mining activities follows:
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of tar sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, exploits a portion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta by Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline Ltd. Since start-up in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 1.6 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.
Operating License and Leases
Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine tar sands and produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on tar sands leases. Syncrude holds eight tar sands leases covering approximately 252,000 acres in the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit which were issued by the Province of Alberta. The leases are automatically renewable as long as tar sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. In the Base mine (lease 17), the mining and transportation system uses draglines, bucketwheel reclaimers and belt conveyors. In the
Index to Financial Statements
North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34), truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems are used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separate crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 545,000 tons of tar sands a day, producing 110 million barrels of crude bitumen a year. This represents recovery capability of about 92 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined tar sands.
Crude bitumen extracted from tar sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon removal in two large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen addition in high-temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity, low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2005, this upgrading process yielded 0.853 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. In 2005 about 49 percent of the synthetic crude oil was processed by Edmonton area refineries and the remaining 51 percent was pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and exported, primarily to the United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and an 80 megawatt electricity generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Imperial Oil Limited’s 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities was about $2.8 billion at year end 2005.
Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves
The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 160 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, historical extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. Proven reserves include the operating Base and North mines and the Aurora mine. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are an estimated 1,890 million tons of extractable tar sands in the Base and North mines, with an average bitumen grade of 10.6 weight percent. In addition, at the Aurora mine, there are an estimated 4,485 million tons of extractable tar sands at an average bitumen grade of 11.2 weight percent. After deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates that its 25 percent net share of proven reserves at year end 2005 was equivalent to 738 million barrels of synthetic crude oil.
In 2001, the Syncrude owners endorsed a further development of the Syncrude resource in the area and expansion of the upgrading facilities. The Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion 1 project adds a remote mining train and expands the central processing and upgrading plant. The Aurora 2 mining and extraction development became fully operational in 2004. The Upgrader Expansion will be completed in 2006. When completed, this project will increase production capacity to 350 thousand barrels of synthetic crude oil per day (gross).
Index to Financial Statements ExxonMobil Share of Net Proven Syncrude Reserves(1)
(1)
Net reserves are the company’s share of reserves after deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Syncrude Operating Statistics (total operation)
(1)
Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes.
(2)
Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined tar sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor.
(3)
Reflects ExxonMobil’s 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Item 3.