Item 2. Properties.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows:
1. Disclosure of Reserves
A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at Year-End 2009
The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated subsidiaries and equity companies. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the last 12-month period. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2009, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.
(1)
Liquids includes crude, condensate and natural gas liquids.
Index to Financial Statements In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.
The Corporation’s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2010-2014. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A - Risk Factors of this report.
The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.
B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2009
Additions to ExxonMobil’s proved reserves in 2009 were based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate data, utilizing well established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and consistent results.
Data used in these integrated assessments included information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure information, production test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained through indirect measurements including high-quality 2-D and 3-D seismic data, calibrated with available well control. Where applicable, surface geological information was also utilized. The tools used to interpret the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary reservoir modeling and simulation software and commercially available data analysis packages.
In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.
C. Qualifications of Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves
ExxonMobil has a dedicated Reserves Technical Oversight group that is separate from the operating organization. Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting of ExxonMobil’s proved reserves. This group also maintains the official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil’s proved reserves of crude and natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition, the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The group is managed by and staffed with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of technical experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes several individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology, as well as individuals who hold Bachelor’s degrees in various technical disciplines. Several members of the group hold professional registrations in their field of expertise and several have served on the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Index to Financial Statements The Reserves Technical Oversight group maintains a central computerized database containing the official company global reserves estimates and production data. Appropriate controls, including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place to ensure data integrity within this central computerized database. An annual review of the system’s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis of well and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be made to the reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed certain thresholds require further review and approval of the appropriate level of management within the operating organization before the changes may be made in the central database. Endorsement by the Reserves Technical Oversight group for all proved reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews are held with senior management for final endorsement.
2. Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At year-end 2009, approximately 7.5 billion oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil’s proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped, which represented 33 percent of the 23.0 GOEB reported in proved reserves. This compares to 38 percent proved undeveloped reported at the end of 2008. The net reduction from 2008 is reflective of our active development programs on many projects worldwide. This percentage is inclusive of both consolidated subsidiaries and equity company reserves. Significant progress was made in converting proved undeveloped reserves into proved developed reserves in 2009. During the year, ExxonMobil completed development work in over 100 fields and participated in numerous major project start-ups that resulted in the transfer of approximately 2.4 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year-end. This represented the movement of 28 percent of the proved undeveloped reserves into the proved developed category or an average turnover time of about four years. The largest transfers were associated with two liquefied natural gas (LNG) trains and the second phase of a domestic gas supply project in Qatar.
One of ExxonMobil’s requirements for reporting proved reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy and many major fields require a long lead-time in order to be developed. Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of first recording of proved reserves to the start of production of these reserves. However, the development time for large and complex projects can exceed five years. During 2009, new approved projects added approximately 1.3 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. The largest of these were the Gorgon LNG project in Australia and the Papua New Guinea LNG project. Overall, investments of $12.7 billion were made by the Corporation during 2009 to progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including $11.6 billion for oil and gas producing activities and an additional $1.1 billion for other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the construction of LNG trains, tankers and regasification facilities that were undertaken to progress the development of proved undeveloped reserves. These investments represented 61 percent of the $20.7 billion in total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.
Proved undeveloped reserves in the United States, Kazakhstan, Qatar, Nigeria, Netherlands and Canada have remained undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity of infrastructure and the pace of co-venturers/Government funding, as well as the time required to develop and complete the projects. The Corporation is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance and regulatory approvals. The two largest projects that have been reported with proved undeveloped reserves for five or more years
Index to Financial Statements
are in Qatar and Kazakhstan. In Qatar, the construction of the Ras Laffan 3 Train 7 LNG liquefaction train is now complete. In Kazakhstan, ExxonMobil participates in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement, which includes the giant Kashagan field located offshore in the Caspian Sea. Phase 1 of the Kashagan field is currently under construction and includes an offshore production and separation hub on an artificial island, several drilling islands, three onshore oil-stabilization trains, two onshore gas treatment plants and an onshore sulfur treatment plant. ExxonMobil also participates in the Tengizchevroil joint venture in Kazakhstan which includes a production license in the Tengiz field, and the nearby Korolev field. The joint venture is producing and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to move to proved developed as approved development phases progress.
Index to Financial Statements 3. Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
A. Oil and Gas Production
The table below summarizes production by final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.
Index to Financial Statements B. Production Prices and Production Costs
The table below summarizes average production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by product type for the last three years.
Index to Financial Statements
Average production prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation’s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section 3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A. The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in the reserves table in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities” portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.
Index to Financial Statements 4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
Index to Financial Statements
Index to Financial Statements B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32 degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, mines a portion of the Athabasca oil sands deposit. Syncrude joint venture owners hold eight oil sands leases covering about 250,000 acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit. Since startup in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 2.0 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta, by Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline Ltd. In 2009, Syncrude’s net production of synthetic crude oil was about 259,000 barrels per day and gross production was about 280,000 barrels per day. The company’s share of net production in 2009 was about 65,000 barrels per day. There are no approved plans for major future expansion projects.
Kearl Project
The Kearl oil sands project is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada.
Kearl is expected to be developed in phases. Bitumen will be extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen extraction and froth treatment plant. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is planned to be shipped via pipelines for distribution to North American markets. Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate transportation to market by pipeline.
The Kearl project received approvals from the Province of Alberta in 2007 and the Government of Canada in 2008. The Province of Alberta issued an operating and construction license in 2008, which permits the project to mine oil sands and produce bitumen from approved development areas on oil sands leases. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering about 48,000 acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.
Production from the first phase is expected to be at an initial rate of approximately 110,000 gross barrels of bitumen a day. About $2 billion has been spent on the project through 2009. In 2009, pipeline transportation agreements were concluded, infrastructure construction continued and more than half of the detailed engineering was completed.
Index to Financial Statements 5. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling
B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities
During 2009, ExxonMobil’s activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, by ExxonMobil Exploration Company (for exploration), by ExxonMobil Development Company (for large development activities), by ExxonMobil Production Company (for producing and smaller development activities) and by ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company (for gas marketing). During this same period, some of ExxonMobil’s exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in Canada by Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
UNITED STATES
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2009 acreage holdings totaled 10.2 million net acres, of which 2.3 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.
During 2009, 435.2 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states and 2.0 net development wells were completed offshore in the Pacific. Tight gas development continued in the Piceance Basin of Colorado as the Piceance Phase 1 tight gas project came onstream in 2009. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 22.5 net development wells were drilled. On Alaska’s North Slope, activity continued on the Western Region Development with development drilling and facility upgrades.
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2009 was 2.2 million acres. A total of 6.0 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. In 2009, the Rockefeller field was brought onstream.
Construction of the Golden Pass LNG regasification terminal in Texas continued in 2009. The terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to two billion cubic feet of gas per day.
Index to Financial Statements CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Oil and Gas Operations
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2009 acreage holdings totaled 6.8 million net acres, of which 3.1 million net acres were offshore. A total of 234.0 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
In Situ Bitumen Operations
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2009 in situ bitumen acreage holdings totaled 0.6 million net onshore acres. A total of 60.0 net development wells were completed during the year. The only current in situ bitumen production comes from the Cold Lake field. To maintain production at Cold Lake, additional production wells and associated facilities are required periodically. In 2009, a development drilling program began within the approved development area to add additional productive capacity from undeveloped areas.
Argentina
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million onshore acres at year-end 2009, and there were 1.8 net development wells completed during the year.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil’s acreage holdings and assets were expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of “Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies” of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.
EUROPE
Germany
A total of 4.9 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2009, with 3.6 net exploration and development wells drilled during the year.
Italy
The Adriatic LNG regasification terminal received its first cargo and commenced regasification operations in 2009. The terminal can supply up to 775 million cubic feet of gas per day to the Italian gas market.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.4 million acres at year-end 2009, of which 1.2 million acres are onshore. A total of 2.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The multi-year project to renovate Groningen production clusters, install new compression to maintain capacity and extend field life was completed and the project to redevelop the Schoonebeek oil field was progressed.
Norway
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2009 totaled approximately 0.7 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 6.6 net exploration and development well completions in 2009. Production was initiated at the Tyrihans field.
Index to Financial Statements United Kingdom
ExxonMobil’s net interest in licenses at year-end 2009 totaled approximately 0.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 3.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year including the successful Fram appraisal.
The South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Wales commenced operations in 2009 and received its first deliveries. The terminal has the capacity to deliver up to 2.1 billion cubic feet of gas per day into the natural gas grid.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil’s year-end 2009 acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net offshore acres and 7.9 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, development drilling continued at Kizomba A, Kizomba B and Kizomba C. Project work continued on the Angola Gas Gathering project and the Kizomba Satellites Phase 1 project in 2009. On the non-operated Block 17, project work continued on the Pazflor project and development drilling continued at Dalia. On the non-operated Block 31, project work continued on the Plutao-Saturno-Venus-Marte project.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings totaled 0.1 million offshore acres.
Chad
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2009 acreage holdings consisted of 0.1 million onshore acres, with 34.4 net development wells completed during the year. Production began from the Timbre field in 2009.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil’s acreage totaled 0.1 million net offshore acres at year-end 2009.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 1.0 million offshore acres at year-end 2009, with 6.7 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Work continued on the deepwater Usan project in 2009. Projects to replace crude oil pipelines and to reduce flaring were progressed. A 3-D seismic acquisition program continued on the Nigerian Shelf joint venture acreage and a 4-D seismic survey was completed at the Erha field.
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
ExxonMobil’s net year-end 2009 offshore acreage holdings totaled 1.9 million acres. During 2009, a total of 7.6 net exploration and development wells were drilled. Work continued on the Kipper/Tuna gas project and Turrum Phase 2 development. The Gorgon liquefied natural gas project was approved for development in 2009.
Indonesia
At year-end 2009, ExxonMobil had 5.4 million net acres, including 4.3 million net acres offshore and 1.1 million net acres onshore. A total of 0.8 net exploration wells were completed during the year. During 2009, early oil production commenced at the Banyu Urip field in the Cepu contract area. A new deepwater block was acquired in 2009 as well as three coalbed methane production sharing contracts.
Index to Financial Statements Japan
ExxonMobil’s net offshore acreage was 36 thousand acres at year-end 2009.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2009. In 2009, a new production sharing contract was signed with PETRONAS and PETRONAS Carigali. During the year, a total of 5.0 net development wells were completed.
Papua New Guinea
A total of 0.4 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2009, with 1.1 net development wells completed during the year. In 2009, all co-venturers agreed to proceed with the development of the Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on natural gas projects in Qatar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) operating companies include:
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited - (QG I)
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2) - (QG 2)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited - (RL I)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II) - (RL II)
Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) - (RL 3)
In addition, the Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) project supplied pipeline gas to domestic industrial customers. With the initial start-up of AKG Phase 2 in December 2009, the AKG facilities provide sales gas capacity of up to 2 billion cubic feet per day with associated condensate, ethane and liquid petroleum gas.
At the end of 2009, with the conclusion of the drilling program for the RL 3 and AKG 2 projects, 136 gross wells supplied natural gas to currently-producing LNG and pipeline gas sales facilities. During 2009, 8.9 net development wells were completed.
Total Qatar LNG capacity volumes (gross) at year-end 2009 was 53.8 MTA (millions of metric tons per annum), with the start up in 2009 of QG 2 trains 4 and 5 as well as the start-up of RL 3 train 6. Capacity consists of 9.7 MTA in QG I trains 1-3, a combined 20.7 MTA in RL I trains 1-2 and RL II trains 3-5, 15.6 MTA in QG 2 trains 4-5 and 7.8 MTA in RL 3 train 6 . In addition, RL 3 train 7 will add planned capacity of 7.8 MTA when completed.
The conversion factor to translate Qatar LNG volumes (millions of metric tons - MT) into gas volumes (billions of cubic feet - BCF) is dependent on the gas quality and the quality of the LNG produced. The conversion factors are approximately 46 BCF/MT for QG I trains 1-3, RL I trains 1-2 and RL II train 3, and approximately 49 BCF/MT for QG 2 trains 4-5, RL II trains 4-5 and RL 3 trains 6-7.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2009.
Index to Financial Statements Thailand
ExxonMobil’s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2009.
United Arab Emirates
ExxonMobil’s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi oil concessions was 0.6 million acres at year-end 2009, of which 0.4 million acres were onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore. During the year, 6.0 net development wells were completed. During 2009, work progressed on multiple field development projects, both onshore and offshore, to sustain and increase oil production capacity.
RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2009, ExxonMobil’s net acreage, located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan, totaled 0.1 million acres. At the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field, 0.7 net development wells were completed.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil’s net acreage totaled 0.2 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2009, with 1.2 net exploration and development wells completed during 2009. Production continued to increase as a result of the latest Tengiz expansion that came onstream in 2008. Construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2009.
Russia
ExxonMobil’s net acreage holdings at year-end 2009 were 0.1 million acres, all offshore. A total of 0.6 net development wells were completed in the Chayvo field during the year. Development of the initial phase of the Odoptu field is underway with the construction of field separation facilities, a flowline to the Chayvo onshore processing plant and completion of 0.6 net development wells.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
At year-end 2009, exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not included above. A total of 49.1 million net acres were held at year-end 2009, and 3.8 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.
Index to Financial Statements 6. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
A. Gross and Net Productive Wells
There were 16,587 gross and 13,737 net operated wells at year-end 2009 and 16,286 gross and 13,573 net operated wells at year-end 2008. In 2009, 1,039 gross wells had multiple completions.
B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
*
Revised to include oil sands mining acreage.
Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
Index to Financial Statements C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
*
Revised to include oil sands mining acreage.
ExxonMobil’s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions.
D. Summary of Acreage Terms
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some instances, a “fee interest” is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA
Canada
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Exploration rights in onshore areas acquired from Canadian provinces entitle the holder to obtain leases upon completing specified work. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada and the block in the Beaufort Sea acquired in 2007 are currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
Index to Financial Statements Argentina
The onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed.
EUROPE
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license. In 2007, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired four exploration licenses in the state of Lower Saxony. The exploration licenses are for a period of five years during which exploration work programs will be carried out. In 2009, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired two exploration licenses in the state of North Rhine Westphalia for an initial period of five years and an extension to one of the Lower Saxony licenses.
Netherlands
Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the Mining Law.
Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any such 40-year term, licenses may continue in
Index to Financial Statements
producing areas until cessation of production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate in all other areas. ExxonMobil’s licenses issued in 2005 as part of the 23rd licensing round have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years. There is a mandatory relinquishment of 50-percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.
Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by various agreements negotiated with the national oil company and the government of Cameroon. Exploration permits are granted for terms from four to 16 years and are generally renewable for multiple periods up to four years each. Upon commercial discovery, mining concessions are issued for a period of 25 years with one 25-year extension.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the government. In May 2007, Chad enacted a new Petroleum Code which would govern new acquisitions.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years. A new Hydrocarbons Law was enacted in November 2006. Under the new law, the exploration terms for new production sharing contracts are four to five years with a maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-
Index to Financial Statements
renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further renewal option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated on one calendar year’s notice.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months’ written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.
ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST
Australia
Exploration and production activities are conducted offshore and are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter “indefinitely”, i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated). Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted “indefinitely”.
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the government owned oil company, which is now a competing limited liability company.
Japan
The Mining Law provides for the granting of concessions that convey exploration and production rights. Exploration rights are granted for an initial two-year period, and may be extended for two two-year periods for gas and three two-year periods for oil. Production rights have no fixed term and continue until abandonment so long as the rights holder is fulfilling its obligations.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by seven production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company, three governing exploration and production activities and four governing production activities only. The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the
Index to Financial Statements
possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company’s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.
In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the national oil company for a new PSC, which was subsequently signed in 2009. Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company is entitled to undertake new development and production activities in oil fields under an existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and spending commitments, including an enhanced oil recovery project in one of the oil fields. When the existing PSC expires on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC will automatically become part of the new PSC, which has a 25-year duration from April 2008.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister’s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister’s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in June 1995.
Thailand
The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil’s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
United Arab Emirates
Exploration and production activities for the major onshore oilfields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of January 1, 2006, for a term expiring March 9, 2026, on fiscal terms consistent with the Company’s existing interests in Abu Dhabi.
Index to Financial Statements RUSSIA/CASPIAN
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Kazakhstan
Onshore exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period was six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Russia
Terms for ExxonMobil’s acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in 10-year increments as specified in the PSA.
Index to Financial Statements Information with regard to the Downstream segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Downstream segment manufactures and sells petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and feedstocks to our customers around the world.
Refining Capacity At Year-End 2009 (1)
(1)
Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.
(2)
Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil’s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.
Index to Financial Statements The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world. Our Exxon, Esso and Mobil brands serve customers at nearly 28,000 retail service stations.
Retail Sites Year-End 2009
Index to Financial Statements Information with regard to the Chemical segment follows:
ExxonMobil’s Chemical segment manufactures and sells petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.
Chemical Complex Capacity at Year-End 2009 (1)(2)
(1)
Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.
(2)
Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil’s interest.
(3)
Net ExxonMobil ethylene capacity is 35%. Net ExxonMobil polyethylene capacity is 100%.
Index to Financial Statements Item 3.