Item 2. Properties.
Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in the Financial Section of this report in Note 10, which note appears on page 36, and on pages 51 through 55 and 57.
Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows: - - - - - - --------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids (millions of barrels) and Natural Gas (billions of cubic feet) at Year-End 2000
Estimated proved reserves are shown on pages 53 and 54 of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2000, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves, see page 55 of the Financial Section of this report.
2. Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies
During 2000, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S. Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information is consistent with the ExxonMobil 1999 Annual Report to shareholders with the exception of EIA-23 which covered total oil and gas reserves from
ExxonMobil-operated properties in the United States and does not include gas plant liquids. The differences between the oil reserves and gas reserves reported on EIA-23 and those reported in the 1999 Annual Report exceed five percent.
3. Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production
Reference is made to page 51 of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from our own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table on page 53 of the Financial Section of this report. The net production volumes of natural gas available for sale by the producing function used in this calculation are shown on page 57 of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.
4. Gross and Net Productive Wells
5. Gross and Net Developed Acreage
Note: Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.
6. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage
7. Summary of Acreage Terms in Key Areas
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas exploration leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. In some instances, a "fee interest" is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.
CANADA
Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in 1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in Eastern Canada is currently held by work commitments of various amounts.
EUROPE
France
Exploration permits are granted for periods of three to five years, renewable up to two times accompanied by substantial acreage relinquishments: 50 percent of the acreage at first renewal; 25 percent of the remaining acreage at second renewal. A 1994 law requires a bidding process prior to granting of an exploration permit. Upon discovery of commercial hydrocarbons, a production concession is granted for up to 50 years, renewable in periods of 25 years each.
Germany
Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years with possible extensions of up to three years for an indefinite period. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.
Netherlands
Onshore: Exploration drilling permits are issued for a period of two to five years. Permits issued after 1996 are issued for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the permit is issued. Production concessions are granted after discoveries have been made, under conditions that are negotiated with the government. Normally, they are field-life concessions covering an area defined by hydrocarbon occurrences.
Offshore: Prospecting licenses issued prior to March 1976 are for a 15-year period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required at the end of ten years. Prospecting licenses issued between 1976 and 1996 are for a ten-year period, with relinquishment of about 50 percent of the original area required at the end of six years. Current licenses are for a period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the permit is issued. For commercial discoveries within a prospecting license, a production license is normally issued for a 40-year period.
Norway
Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to 10 years and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the sixth year. Licenses issued after July 1,
1997 have an initial period of from four to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
United Kingdom
Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, the regulations governing licenses issued between 1996 and 1998 provide for an initial term of three years with possible extensions of six, 15 and 24 years for a license period of 45 more years. After the second extension, the license must be surrendered in part. In recent licensing rounds, the initial term has generally been for six years. After possible surrender of acreage, the license may continue for 30 more years.
ASIA-PACIFIC
Australia
Onshore: Acreage terms are fixed by the individual state and territory governments. These terms and conditions vary significantly between the states and territories. Exploration permits are normally granted for two to six years (in some states the Minister fixes the term) with possible renewals and relinquishment. Production licenses in South Australia are granted for an initial term of 21 years, with subsequent renewals, each for 21 years, for the full area. Production licenses in Queensland are granted for varying periods consistent with expected field lives, with renewals on a similar basis.
Offshore: Acreage terms are fixed by the federal government beyond the three nautical mile limit offshore (all of the company's offshore acreage), in most cases by legislation but in some cases by the Joint Authority (composed of federal and state ministers) at the time of grant. Exploration permits are granted for six years with possible renewals of five-year periods. A 50 percent relinquishment of remaining area is mandatory at the end of each renewal period. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Production licenses granted prior to September 1, 1998 were initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter renewals at the discretion of the Joint Authority or Federal Minister. Effective from September 1, 1998, new production licenses are granted "indefinitely" i.e., for the life of the field (if no operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated).
Indonesia
Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the national oil company. Certain activities may also be subject to joint operating agreements and/or technical assistance contracts also negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts have an overall term of up to 30 years with possible extensions in some contracts. The initial exploration period is from six to ten years.
Malaysia
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent contracts have an overall term of 24 to 37 years with possible extensions to the exploration or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries must be relinquished. The development period is four to five years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period must be relinquished if no extension is granted. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the current contract.
Papua New Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by the Petroleum Act. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with renewals of five years. A 50 percent area relinquishment is mandatory at the end of the first term. Production licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. Renewals of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister's discretion. Petroleum retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, renewable twice for maximum retention time of 15 years.
Thailand
The company's concessions and the Petroleum Act of 1972 allow production for 30 years (through 2021) with a possible ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.
AFRICA
Angola
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years and a negotiated extension is common.
Cameroon
Exploration and production activities are governed by agreements negotiated with the national oil company. The concessions have various agreements with regard to license extension, terms and conditions for the exploration and production phase.
Chad
Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, renewable for two further five-year periods. The production term is for 30 years.
Equatorial Guinea
Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the state Ministry of Mines and Energy. The exploration term is for 10 to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years.
Nigeria
Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) with the national oil company. The national oil company holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a ten-year exploration period (six-year initial exploration phase plus a four-year optional period) with no required relinquishment after the initial phase, a 50 percent relinquishment requirement after the second phase and a 20-year production period that may be extended.
Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with indigenous companies as direct participants in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas OPLs are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.
OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act, (i.e., under the Minerals Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively.
OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for on- or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by the national oil company are also subject to a mandatory 50 percent relinquishment, after the first ten years of their duration.
In all cases, renewal of OMLs is almost certain if lessee satisfies three conditions, namely, lessee: i) gives the requisite notice within the minimum stipulated period; ii) has paid up-to-date all rentals, royalties and fees and iii) has fulfilled all lessee's obligations under the OML.
The MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) defining commercial terms applicable to existing oil production was renegotiated and executed in 2000 and is effective for a minimum of three years with possible extension on mutual agreement. Guidelines for Marginal Field Development were issued by the Government.
OTHER COUNTRIES
Argentina
The concession terms for onshore in Argentina are two to three years for the initial exploration period, one to two years for the second exploration period and zero to one year for the third exploration period. The concession terms for offshore in Argentina are four years for the initial exploration period, three years for the second exploration period and three years for the third exploration period. Fifty percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to four years. The total exploration and exploitation term is 25 years. A ten-year extension is possible once a field has been developed.
Azerbaijan
The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Megastructure is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.
Other exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.
Kazakhstan
Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a joint- venture agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.
Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration period consists of six years with the possibility of a two-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for 20 years with the possibility of two ten-year extensions.
Qatar
The State of Qatar grants concessions to LNG projects within Qatar's offshore North field to permit the economic development and production of sufficient gas to satisfy the LNG sales obligations of these projects.
Republic of Yemen
Production sharing agreements (PSAs) negotiated with the government entitle the company to participate in exploration operations within a designated area during the exploration period. In the
event of a commercial oil discovery, the company is entitled to proceed with development and production operations during the development period. The length of these periods and other specific terms are negotiated prior to executing the PSA. Existing production operations have a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration (made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA).
Venezuela
Exploration and production activities are governed by contracts negotiated with the national oil company. Exploration activity is covered by risk/profit sharing contracts where exploration blocks were awarded for 35 years. Production licenses are awarded for 20 years under production service agreements.
Strategic association agreements (such as the Cerro Negro project) are limited to those projects that require vertical integration. Licenses are awarded for 35 years. Significant amendments to the contract terms require Venezuelan congressional approval.
8. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled
9. Present Activities
A. Wells Drilling -- Year-End 2000
B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities in Key Areas
During 2000, ExxonMobil's activities were conducted, either directly or through affiliated companies, for exploration by ExxonMobil Exploration Company, for large development activities by ExxonMobil Development Company, for producing and smaller development activities by ExxonMobil Production Company and for gas marketing by ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Company. During this same period, some of ExxonMobil's exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in California by Aera Energy, LLC, a joint venture with Shell Oil Company and in Canada by the Resources Division of Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.
Some of the more significant ongoing activities are:
UNITED STATES
Exploration and delineation of additional hydrocarbon resources continued. At year-end 2000, ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 13.4 million net acres. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska. A total of 3.9 net exploration and delineation wells were completed during 2000.
During 2000, 539.1 net development wells were completed within and around mature fields in the inland lower 48 states.
Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 21.0 net development wells were drilled in 2000. Equity realignment in the Prudhoe Bay field increased the company's net production by 30 thousand barrels per day.
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2000 was 3.5 million acres. A total of 47.1 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year and development continued on several Gulf of Mexico projects in 2000.
. In May 2000, production began from the ExxonMobil-operated Hoover and Diana fields in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico using a Deep-Draft Caisson Vessel (DDCV). This DDCV, installed in 4,800 feet of water, set a world water-depth record for a combined drilling and production platform.
. Activities to tie-in Nile, a one well subsea development in 3,500 feet of water, to the Marlin host platform are underway. First production is planned for second quarter 2001.
. Construction and drilling activities advanced in the ExxonMobil-operated Mica field, a remote deepwater subsea development located in 4,500 feet water depth tied back to the Pompano host platform. First production is scheduled for mid-year 2001.
. Activities to tie-in the ExxonMobil-operated Marshall and Madison discoveries, located in 4,800 feet water depth, to the Hoover host facilities are underway. First production is planned for early 2002.
CANADA
ExxonMobil's year-end acreage holdings totaled 12.0 million net acres. A total of 273.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.
Gross production from Cold Lake averaged 119 thousand barrels per day during 2000. Field work began on the next expansion targeted to start up in 2003. In Eastern Canada, 2000 marked the first full year of gas production of the Sable Offshore Energy Project. The Terra Nova oil development project offshore Newfoundland is under construction.
EUROPE
France
ExxonMobil's acreage at year-end 2000 was 0.8 million net acres, with 2.5 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Germany
A total of 2.8 million net acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2000, with 4.8 net exploration and development wells drilled during the year. The offshore A6/B4 gas project in the North Sea came on stream in the third quarter of 2000.
Netherlands
ExxonMobil's interest in licenses totaled 2.5 million net acres at year-end 2000. During 2000, 2.7 net exploration and development wells were drilled. Significant, but smaller fields, are continuously being discovered, developed and brought on stream.
Norway
ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2000 totaled 1.4 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 12.7 net exploration and development well completions in 2000. Production was initiated on three developments: Aasgard B/C, Sygna and Oseberg South. Field development projects for Snorre B, Ringhorne and Grane fields are in progress.
United Kingdom
ExxonMobil's net interest in licenses at year-end 2000 totaled approximately 3.2 million acres, all offshore. A total of 28.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Several projects started up, including Shearwater, Triton, Cook and Skiff. Several major projects were underway including Skene, Brigantine and Elgin/Franklin.
ASIA-PACIFIC
Australia
ExxonMobil's net year-end 2000 acreage holdings totaled 7.6 million acres. ExxonMobil drilled a total of 24.4 net exploration and development wells in 2000. A development drilling program was completed offshore Australia.
Indonesia
ExxonMobil had acreage of 8.0 million net acres at year-end 2000. During the year ExxonMobil acquired an additional 51 percent interest in the Cepu block, bringing its total interest to 100 percent.
Malaysia
ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 4.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia. During the year, a total of 13.3 net exploration and development wells were completed. Development and infill drilling were successfully completed at Tapis-E, Pulai-A and Jerneh-A platforms. Major development projects currently in progress are Angsi, Larut and five satellite field developments. These are scheduled for installation and start-up in the 2001 to 2003 time frame.
Papua New Guinea
ExxonMobil's 2000 year-end acreage was 0.6 million net acres, with 0.5 net exploration and development wells completed in 2000. An extended well test commenced in the Moran field.
Thailand
ExxonMobil's acreage in the Khorat concession totaled 15 thousand net acres at year-end.
AFRICA
Angola
ExxonMobil's year-end 2000 acreage holdings totaled 3.7 million net acres and 3.6 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Development continued on the Girassol field in Block 17 with first production scheduled in late 2001. Development planning is progressing on ExxonMobil- operated discoveries in Block 15 and non-operated Block 17 discoveries.
Cameroon
ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 0.3 million net acres at year-end, with 0.9 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The D1b field is under development with first oil planned by year-end 2001.
Chad
ExxonMobil's net year-end 2000 acreage holdings consisted of 4.1 million acres. Construction has commenced on the Chad-Cameroon Oil Development and Pipeline project which will develop discovered oil fields in landlocked southern Chad and transport produced oil to the coast of Cameroon.
Equatorial Guinea
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.6 million acres at year-end, with 4.4 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Production from the Jade platform started in June 2000.
Nigeria
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 1.4 million acres at year-end, with 10.8 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. Development plans are being progressed for the Bonga discovery (OPL 212) and for the ExxonMobil-operated Erha (OPL 209) discovery. Expected start-up is 2004 for Bonga and 2005 for Ehra.
OTHER COUNTRIES
Argentina
ExxonMobil's acreage totaled 0.6 net million acres at year-end, with 4.0 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.
Azerbaijan
At year-end 2000, ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.2 million acres located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan.
At the Megastructure Early Oil project, water injection to support reservoir pressure was started in mid-2000. Engineering design of the next platform continues.
Kazakhstan
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.4 million acres at year-end 2000, with 1.2 net exploration and development wells completed during 2000. Production capacity from the Tengiz field has increased with the completion of a fifth processing train and the implementation of gas handling de-bottlenecking projects. Development planning to further increase production is ongoing.
Substantial progress was made on construction of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) project for transporting oil from Tengiz, and other Caspian fields and nearby areas, to the Russian Black Sea port of Novorossiysk. Start- up is projected in 2001. The pipeline will displace the high cost rail and barge transportation now being used.
Qatar
Production and development activities continued on two major liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects in Qatar -- Qatargas (Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited) and RasGas (Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Ltd.). Initial RasGas operations commenced in 1999 from the first LNG train. A second train started up in March 2000, bringing total production capacity to 6.6 MTA (million metric tons per year) of LNG. Engineering and design was completed in 2000 for two new LNG trains as part of the RasGas Expansion project.
In May 2000, a development and production sharing agreement was executed for the Enhanced Gas Utilization (EGU) project, which provides for up to 1.75 billion cubic feet per day of gas production, along with associated condensate and natural gas liquids, from Qatar's North field. Engineering and design of the EGU gas production facilities were completed in 2000. Gas from EGU is targeted for domestic use and regional sales via pipeline.
Republic of Yemen
ExxonMobil's net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 0.9 million acres onshore at year-end. During the year, 5.7 net exploration and development wells were drilled and completed.
Venezuela
ExxonMobil's net acreage totaled 0.5 million acres at year-end with 19.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year. The Cerro Negro heavy oil project began production in November 1999, and the Central Processing facility was completed in the fourth quarter of 2000. Construction activities on the Upgrader Facility at the Jose Industrial Complex are on schedule for a 2001 start-up.
WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION
Exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations. A total of 35.2 million net acres were held at year-end, and 3.6 net exploration wells were completed during the year.
Information with regard to mining activities follows: - - - - - - -----------------------------------------------------
Syncrude Operations
Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of tar sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, exploits a portion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road. The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta in the Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline owned by the Alberta Energy Company Ltd. Since startup in 1978, Syncrude has produced 1.2 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.
Operating License and Leases
Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine tar sands and produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on tar sands leases. Syncrude holds eight tar sands leases covering approximately 255,000 acres in the Athabasca Oil Sands Deposit. Issued by the Province of Alberta, the leases are automatically renewable as long as tar sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta's Department of Resource Development. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.
Operations, Plant and Equipment
Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. In the Base mine (lease 17), the mining and transportation system uses draglines, bucketwheel reclaimers and belt conveyors. In the North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34), a truck, shovel and hydrotransport system is used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separate crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 545,000 tons of tar sands a day, producing 110 million barrels of crude bitumen a year. This represents recovery capability of about 92 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined tar sands.
Crude bitumen extracted from tar sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon removal in two large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen addition in high- temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity, low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2000 this upgrading process yielded 0.843 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. About two-thirds of the synthetic crude oil is processed by Edmonton area refineries and the remaining one-third is pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and the mid-western United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and an 80 megawatt electricity generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Imperial Oil Limited's 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities is $690 million.
Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves
The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 160 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, historical extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. Proven reserves include the operating Base and North mines and the Aurora mine. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are an estimated 3,535 million tons of extractable tar sands in the Base and North mines, with an average bitumen grade of 10.4 weight percent. In addition, at the Aurora mine, there are an estimated 1,645 million tons of extractable tar sands at an average bitumen grade of 11.3 weight percent. After deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates its 25 percent net share of proven reserves is equivalent to 610 million barrels of synthetic crude oil.
ExxonMobil Share of Net Proven Syncrude Reserves(1)
- - - - - - -------- (1) Net reserves are the company's share of reserves after deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Syncrude Operating Statistics (total operation)
- - - - - - -------- (1) Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes. (2) Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined tar sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor. (3) Reflects ExxonMobil's 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.
Item 3.