Item 2: "Properties".
In September 1999, the Neurological Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee recommended that the FDA reclassify Totally Implanted Spinal Cord Stimulators (IPGs) for treatment of pain of the trunk and/or limbs from a Class III device to a Class II device. Class III devices typically require a Pre-Market Approval (PMA), supplemented with clinical trials to prove safety and effectiveness of the device. Class II devices typically require a Pre-Market Notification (510(k)) to demonstrate substantial equivalence to an existing legally marketed device prior to receiving market clearance by the FDA. According to the FDA's 1999 ODE Annual Report, the average time for PMA's was 12.5 months (excluding the one-year typically required for clinical trials, or approximately 24 months total). The ODE Annual Report reported the average elapsed time for a 510(k) approval of 3.4 months in 1999.
We expected to receive a final reclassification decision from the FDA in January 2000 but have experienced a delay that we believe is related to the FDA's workload. We received a written progress report dated February 25, 2000 in which the FDA stated that it had received adequate information to move forward toward a final decision. The agency's letter further indicated that there may be "special controls" available to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the IPG device for treating pain of the trunk and/or limbs. We remain optimistic that the FDA will follow the recommendation of its panel to reclassify the IPG and we are prepared to move quickly to file the 510(k) Pre-Market Notification for clearance to market the IPG in the United States if the FDA approves the reclassification. The IPG segment of the neuromodulation market for spinal cord stimulation to treat pain of the trunk and/or limbs is expected by industry analysts to approach $140 million in 2000, is growing at a 25% to 30% annual rate and is currently dominated by a single competitor, Medtronic, Inc.
The Neuromodulation Market --------------------------
The neuromodulation market is comprised of implantable electrical stimulation systems and fully implantable intrathecal (the fluid-filled area around the spinal cord) drug pumps that modulate the central nervous system by delivering precise doses of either electricity or pharmaceuticals directly to targeted nerve sites.
Four product technology platforms address the chronic intractable pain segment of the neuromodulation market. These platforms are: (1) radio-frequency stimulation systems for spinal cord stimulation, (2) implantable pulse generator stimulation systems for spinal cord and deep brain stimulation, (3) fully implantable constant rate intrathecal drug pumps and (4) fully implantable programmable rate intrathecal drug pumps. Industry analysts estimate the market at $400 million in 1999 and growing to nearly $900 million by 2003 solely on current FDA approved indications. The growth in the market for stimulation systems and intrathecal drug pumps is being driven by a number of factors including:
o New technology is increasing the capability of these devices o New clinical applications for stimulation systems and intrathecal drug pumps are being discovered and tested
o Improved outcomes are being driven by technology, patient selection and improved techniques o Stimulation and intrathecal drug pump devices are generally low risk and cost effective and the therapies are reversible o Patient awareness and advocacy is generally high o The base of pain specialists and centers of excellence is growing
Listed below are the estimated units and revenue by market segment in 1999 and 2003 for all manufacturers of such products. These estimates do not consider the use of neuromodulation technology platforms for applications such as epilepsy, depression, peripheral nerve stimulation, chronic intractable angina, chronic headaches, functional stimulation, tens stimulation, peripheral vascular disease and deep brain applications for disorders other than Parkinson's Disease and Essential Tremor.
Estimated, for all product manufacturers, by market segment:
According to industry analysts, there are millions of patients who could benefit from the use of stimulation or intrathecal drug pump devices. Thus, we believe the market is under-served and under-penetrated. In 1999, only approximately 49,000 patients benefited from a stimulation system or intrathecal drug pump.
Our growth strategy is to develop and license proprietary product platforms to expand from our current participation in the radio-frequency stimulation segment
into the other major market segments of the neuromodulation market. Since most pain practitioners implant all four of the product platforms (radio-frequency stimulation systems, implantable pulse generator stimulation systems, fully implantable constant-rate intrathecal drug pumps and fully implantable programmable intrathecal drug pumps), we believe we are in a unique position to leverage our distribution capabilities.
Products --------
Stimulation Systems
Stimulation devices electrically stimulate nerve fibers along the spinal cord to reduce chronic severe neuropathic pain by "masking" the pain signals sent to the brain. Neuropathic pain usually arises from nerve damage. Stimulation device implantation manages the pain associated with failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS), peripheral neuropathy, phantom limb or stump pain, ischemic pain and reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD), also known as complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). Stimulation device implantation in the brain is being used to relieve the effects of various neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's Disease and Essential Tremor by delivering small electrical impulses to targeted structures in the brain.
The market for stimulation systems is currently divided between radio-frequency stimulation systems, which use an external power source, and stimulation systems that utilize implantable battery driven systems known as implantable pulse generators (IPGs). According to industry analysts, lPG devices account for around 80 percent of the number of spinal cord stimulation procedures performed, with radio-frequency devices accounting for the remainder. We currently design, develop, manufacture and market radio-frequency stimulation devices and are near the completion of the development of an IPG device. The primary advantage of the radio-frequency device revolves around the benefits of the system's external battery. An external battery system allows the patient to recharge the device by simply changing a special nine-volt battery. The IPG requires surgical intervention, revision and replacement after two to four years. Due to its inexpensive power system, the radio-frequency device can be programmed with a wide range of amplitude, frequency and pulse width settings for a variety of programs controlled by the patient. These features make the radio-frequency devices the most cost efficient for long-term stimulation treatment. On the other hand, IPG devices provide the convenience of a completely internalized system, although they involve added long-term cost when repeat surgeries are required to replace the IPG power source. Both radio-frequency systems and IPG systems are useful to the pain physician. Radio-frequency systems are most often prescribed for patients who have complex bilateral pain syndromes or widespread pain that require high power levels. IPGs are most often prescribed for patients with simple unilateral and single extremity pain complaints or indications with low power requirements.
Our radio-frequency stimulation systems consist of four primary components: leads, a receiver, a transmitter and programmer. The leads are most commonly placed percutaneously through the skin into the epidural space of the spinal column. This procedure for lead placement is similar to that employed by anesthesiologists in routine epidural procedures. Typically, one or two leads are inserted; each of which has multiple electrodes that can be used to stimulate the targeted nerve roots of the spinal cord. Laminotomy style (paddle) leads are also available for neurosurgeons or orthopedic surgeons who prefer to insert leads in an open surgical procedure approach. The leads are then connected to a passive receiver, which is implanted under the skin on the side of the abdomen. The receiver contains electronics that receive radio-frequency
energy and data from a source (the transmitter) outside the body, and delivers the prescribed electrical pulses to the leads. The transmitter is approximately the size of a pager, and is typically worn on a belt. Since it is external to the body, the transmitter can be easily programmed and serviced as needed, and its battery can be simply recharged or replaced.
Our CompuStim(R) systems include four, seven, eight and sixteen electrodes on one, two or more leads; simple and complex receivers; and an external battery-powered transmitter. We believe that the CompuStim product line's multi-electrode leads and advanced multiprogrammable technology have changed the manner in which neuromodulation is performed worldwide. For example, our "Dual Octrode" device, a system of dual leads with eight electrodes on each lead introduced in 1995, creates a targeted current density that appears to be especially effective in relieving complex and multi-extremity pain patterns. Previously, quadrapolar stimulation systems only relieved the leg pain associated with FBSS. Many experts support the view that the Dual Octrode device provides improved pain relief to both the legs and the back. Dual Octrode systems are enjoying increasing acceptance from the physician community and, in our judgment, is the technological leader in the stimulation field. We believe that the long-term results of stimulation in the treatment of pain have improved as a result of the technological superiority of ANS products. Moreover, the ease of use of the system has expanded the potential market for these products.
In early 1999, we completed the development of our enhanced radio-frequency stimulation system, the Renew(TM) System, and introduced the products in the United States during June 1999. These products include enhancements that simplify the procedure for implanters while providing improved function. We plan to introduce the Renew System in international markets during 2000.
In 1998, we licensed the rights to method patents for sacral nerve root stimulation aimed at relieving the effects of chronic pelvic pain, including interstitial cystitis. Interstitial cystitis is an extremely painful bladder disease that afflicts approximately 450,000 people in the United States alone. We believe our advanced radio-frequency stimulation devices can be effective in treating pelvic pain indications including interstitial cystitis. In February 1999, we received conditional approval from the FDA to initiate a pilot study to evaluate the use of our advanced radio-frequency stimulation systems to treat interstitial cystitis. The pilot study is continuing and if successful, we will seek approval from the FDA to initiate further clinical studies in the process to receive a PMA approval to begin marketing in the United States.
We believe our radio-frequency stimulation devices represent a strong base for penetration of the broader neuromodulation market. We continued development of an IPG stimulation system during 1999 to better serve the broad needs of the pain management market. We expect to complete development of our IPG stimulation system during April 2000. The IPG stimulation system will allow us to participate in the largest segment of the stimulation market for spinal cord stimulation and leverage our sales and marketing capabilities. In addition, the IPG provides us with the opportunity to address a larger number of new indications such as chronic intractable angina, urinary urge incontinence, peripheral nerve stimulation and DBS for Essential Tremor and tremor associated with Parkinson's Disease.
PainDoc(R)
In early 1997 we began marketing PainDoc, a pen-based computer system that is designed to assist physicians and their patients in optimizing the performance of our stimulation devices both pre- and post-operatively. PainDoc interfaces with our CompuStim and Renew transmitters to optimize stimulation therapy and document treatment outcomes. PainDoc allows the physician to interact with the patient to map the location and intensity of the patient's pain. The resulting "pain map" is then used to assess and select the most effective stimulation sets, or combination of multi-electrode stimulation arrays, to treat the pain. The idea is to generate pain coverage that overlaps the patient's pain map. The selected arrays (programs) are uploaded into the patient's CompuStim or Renew transmitter. The physician can visually compare the patient's pain map against a stimulation map and optimize the patient's stimulator setting to address the patient's needs and assess whether desired levels of pain relief have been obtained and whether excess stimulation has been delivered.
PainDoc enables the physician to program up to 24 different stimulation sets delivering electrical stimulation every 50 milliseconds to expand pain area coverage and relief. We believe that PainDoc should also allow physicians to create a broad-based database tool that, by using a standardized methodology, will enable physicians to share and compare outcome data, which can then be used to deliver more efficacious pain relief to individual patients. We believe that PainDoc and ANS transmitter devices used in tandem significantly enhance the effectiveness, flexibility and precision of managing chronic neuropathic pain. We expect PainDoc to promote the selection of our devices for stimulation procedures, especially as stimulation devices become more sophisticated and the pain management process becomes more refined.
We continue to make improvements to PainDoc and will continue to develop systems that are easier to use and offer more capability.
Intrathecal Drug Pumps
Fully implantable intrathecal drug pumps are designed to deliver pharmaceuticals directly into the intrathecal space (the fluid-filled area around the spinal cord). With intrathecal drug delivery, the medication is delivered directly to its site of action. This contrasts to oral or intravenous drug delivery, where the medication is distributed systemically throughout the entire body. Since the drug is being delivered directly to the site of action, a greater therapeutic effect can be achieved with much lower quantities of medication, which reduces the common side effects that can occur with oral medications. Today, intrathecal drug pumps are used to deliver morphine for the treatment of pain and baclofen for the treatment of spasticity.
Intrathecal drug pump systems consist of the pump itself and a catheter. The pump is a low profile cylinder shaped device (similar to the size of a hockey puck) that contains a reservoir into which the drug to be delivered is injected and mechanisms that regulate the rate of delivery of the drug. The pump is implanted under the skin generally in the abdominal area and is connected to the catheter. The catheter is a piece of silastic tubing that is tunneled under the skin and into the spinal fluid space in the back where it delivers the drug from the pump. The drug supply in the pump usually lasts one to three months. The drug pump is refilled using a needle inserted through the skin into the pump's access port. The drug is then injected through the needle into the reservoir.
The refill procedure is generally performed on an outpatient basis by a physician or under the direct supervision of a physician.
In 1999, industry analysts estimated the market for fully implantable intrathecal drug pumps was $201 million and they expect the market to grow to $385 million by the year 2003. The market for fully implantable intrathecal drug pumps is currently divided between constant rate drug pumps and programmable rate drug pumps. According to industry analysts, the programmable drug pumps account for 81 percent of the number of intrathecal drug pump procedures performed, with constant rate drug pumps accounting for the remainder. Currently, Medtronic, Inc. is the sole worldwide provider of a programmable intrathecal drug pump.
The programmable rate drug pump is the most versatile type of implantable pump since it allows the rate of drug delivery to be changed non-invasively to meet varying patients' needs. Medtronic's programmable pump contains a battery and motor. The battery delivers pulses of energy to the motor, which pushes the drug from the pump into the catheter and into the spinal canal. The programmability feature allows for time-modified delivery of the drug. For example, it can be non-invasively programmed to deliver more medication at night and less in the morning. Since the pump is powered with a battery, the entire pump typically needs to be replaced every four to five years.
Constant rate drug pumps are designed to provide drug infusion at a constant rate. Once implanted, the medication flow rates remain the same. In order to change medication rates, different drug concentrations can be mixed and changed at refill. Constant rate pumps are typically powered by pressurized gas contained in a compartment of the device. As the gas expands, the medication is forced out of the drug reservoir through a flow restrictor and catheter and into the spinal canal. When the drug reservoir is refilled, its power is automatically recharged. Therefore constant rate pumps are less expensive and have a longer implant life (eight to ten years) since there is no battery that can be depleted.
Management believes that the fully implantable intrathecal drug pump market offers significant opportunity. In August 1998, we completed an agreement with Tricumed Medizintechnik GmbH, a German corporation, granting ANS rights to distribute Tricumed's fully implantable intrathecal drug pump products in international markets including the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Switzerland, South America, Australia and other world markets. Tricumed manufactures a proprietary constant rate intrathecal drug pump (Archimedes) that has received the CE mark (European) approval. Tricumed is also developing a fully implantable programmable intrathecal drug pump (Micromedes). Tricumed expects to complete development of the Micromedes pump and seek regulatory approval in Europe (CE mark) during 2000. Both the Archimedes and Micromedes pumps have proprietary engineered features that improve patient convenience and reduce costs. If Tricumed successfully completes development of the Micromedes and obtains the CE mark, we would commence marketing the Micromedes pump internationally. We would also seek approval from the FDA to initiate clinical trials in the United States, a step in the PMA process to receive approval to market the Micromedes domestically. We commenced marketing the Archimedes pump internationally in the first quarter of 1999.
In 1999, we continued development of our own silastic spring fully implantable constant rate intrathecal drug pump utilizing proprietary technology licensed from the University of Minnesota. We expect to complete development of the pump in the first half of 2000 and will seek approval from the FDA to initiate
clinical trials in the United States. We will seek CE mark approval to distribute the pump internationally during the first half of 2000, with international sales expected to commence by year-end 2000. Management believes that its value-priced pump will expand the market for fully implantable intrathecal drug pumps to price-sensitive markets including cancer pain therapy and third world countries.
Other Business Matters ----------------------
Marketing and Major Customers
Domestically, we utilize independent specialty distributors and commissioned sales agents who are focused on the chronic pain market to sell our stimulation systems. Currently, we have seven distributor territories, which employ a total of forty-four pain specialists who devote the majority of their selling efforts to ANS products. In addition, we have eleven sales agent territories that employ twenty-one sales agents who are focused on the pain market and depend upon ANS products as their flagship product line. We also have one direct sales territory. We employ four regional sales managers who personally interact with our customers and oversee the distributors, sales agents and direct representative. We also employ a Vice-President of North American Sales who coordinates the sales efforts of our distribution network in North America. Internationally, we sell product to eleven specialty pain distributors who represent ANS in twenty-one countries.
The primary medical specialists we target in our marketing efforts are anesthesiologists, neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons. Although neurosurgeons were the first practitioners to use stimulation systems, anesthesiologists (specializing in pain medicine) now account for a greater percentage of sales, as the relative number of these practitioners has grown and as the understanding and acceptance of stimulation treatment for chronic pain conditions has increased. We derive 93 percent of net revenues from product sales of our stimulation systems from domestic sales and approximately 7 percent from export sales.
During 1999, we had two major customers that accounted for 10 percent or more of our net revenue from product sales. Sun Medical, Inc. and Primesource Surgical, Inc., each a specialty distributor of ANS products, accounted for $3.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively, or 15 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of our net revenue from product sales for the year ended December 31, 1999. During 1998 and 1997, we had one major customer that accounted for 10 percent or more of our net revenue from product sales. Sun Medical, Inc., a specialty distributor of ANS products, accounted for $3.4 million and $3.7 million, or 20 percent and 25 percent of our net revenue from product sales for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. While we believe our relations with Sun Medical and Primesource Surgical are good, the loss of one or both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Research and Development
In 1999, we focused our research and development efforts on the continued development of our enhanced radio-frequency stimulation systems and ongoing research and development of new products for the neuromodulation market, such as an implantable pulse generator stimulation system for spinal cord stimulation, an implantable pulse generator stimulation system for Deep Brain Stimulation ("DBS") and a silastic spring constant rate intrathecal drug pump. We expended $3.77 million (18.3 percent of net revenue from product sales) on our research
and development activities in 1999, compared to $2.80 million (16.5 percent of net revenue from product sales) in 1998. We expect to increase our investment in research and development and clinical trials during 2000 and expect expenditures of approximately $4.0 million. These expenditures will be directed toward completion of our silastic spring constant rate intrathecal drug pump, our implantable pulse generator stimulation system for spinal cord stimulation, our implantable pulse generator stimulation system for DBS and for the development of next generation radio-frequency stimulation systems and implantable pulse generator stimulation systems. These expenditures also include expenses for clinical trials that we expect to initiate on several of our new products upon approval from the FDA. The clinical trials are a necessary process to receive approval from the FDA to begin marketing the products in the United States. As of March 20, 2000, we had an in-house research and development staff of 29 personnel as compared to 25 in March 1999.
We may seek strategic partners for DBS to replace our terminated agreement with Sofamor Danek that could partially fund research and development expenditures during 2000. In addition to DBS, we believe our implantable pulse generator stimulation platform has market opportunities outside our focus of chronic pain, including applications such as epilepsy, urinary incontinence, angina, peripheral nerve stimulation and peripheral vascular disease. Any such market expansion, however, would require PMA approvals from the FDA. We may also seek strategic partners with established distribution systems to develop these market opportunities outside the chronic pain market area, although there is no assurance that we will be successful in negotiating and consummating agreements with strategic partners.
Manufacturing
We manufacture and package our stimulation systems at our manufacturing facility in Plano, Texas. This facility received ISO 9001 certification (for design and manufacturing processes) in July 1999. See Item 1. "Business-Other Business Matters-Government Regulations."
Our manufacturing processes consist of the assembly of standard and custom component parts and the testing of completed products. We subcontract with various suppliers to provide us with the quantity of component parts necessary to assemble our products. Almost all of these components are available from a number of different suppliers, although certain components are purchased from single sources. For example, we currently rely on a single supplier for a computer chip used in the receiver of our stimulation systems. The supplier of this computer chip has indicated its desire to cease manufacturing and supplying the computer chip in the future, but to date has not determined when this will occur. The supplier has agreed to notify us once a date has been determined and allow us to place a final one-time purchase order for the computer chip. In the interim, we are maintaining a higher than normal inventory of the computer chip. In addition, we are developing a new receiver design that does not use any custom computer chips. A sudden disruption in supply from the computer chip supplier or another single-source supplier could adversely affect our ability to deliver finished products on time.
We devote significant attention to quality assurance. Our quality assurance measures begin at the manufacturing level where components are assembled in a "clean room" environment designed and maintained to reduce product exposure to particulate matter. Products are tested throughout the manufacturing process for adherence to specifications. Finished components are shipped to outside processors for ethylene oxide gas sterilization.
Skills of assembly workers required for the manufacture of medical products are similar to those required in typical assembly operations. We believe that workers with these skills are readily available in the Dallas area.
Competition
In marketing our stimulation systems, we compete with one other significant supplier, Medtronic, Inc. Medtronic has substantially greater financial resources and engages in substantially greater research and development and marketing efforts. Medtronic holds a substantial majority share of the stimulation market and sells both radio-frequency stimulation systems and implantable pulse generator stimulation systems. Medtronic also holds the substantial majority share of the market for implantable intrathecal drug pumps and is the sole marketer worldwide of fully implantable programmable intrathecal drug pumps and implantable pulse generators.
We believe that the principal competitive factors in the neuromodulation market are cost-effectiveness, impact on patient outcomes, product performance, quality, ease of use, technical innovation and customer service. We intend to continue to compete on the basis of our high-performance products, innovative technologies, manufacturing capabilities, close customer relations and support, and our strategy to increase our offerings of products within the neuromodulation market.
Patents, Trademarks and Proprietary Information
We currently own five United States patents and two foreign patents. In management's view, these patents offer reasonable coverage of our stimulation devices' electrode, receiver, transmitter and programmer technology as well as advanced PainDoc computer system technology. These patents, in part, cover both radio-frequency stimulation systems and implantable pulse generator stimulation systems for a wide range of current and future applications. Pending patent applications concern new stimulation lead technology, implant accessories, and improved connector mechanisms.
We also license four United States patents and one foreign patent from the University of Minnesota relating to the constant rate intrathecal drug pump we are currently developing.
Additionally, we are exclusively licensing a patent directed to advanced placement techniques and a patent directed to methods to facilitate relieving the effects of chronic pelvic pain such as interstitial cystitis.
The validity of any patents issued to us may be challenged by others and we could encounter legal and financial difficulties in enforcing our patent rights against infringers. In addition, there can be no assurance that other technologies cannot or will not be developed or that patents will not be obtained by others which would render our patents obsolete. The loss of any one patent would not have a material adverse effect on our current revenue base. Although we do not believe that patents are the sole determinant of the commercial success of our products, the loss of a significant percentage of our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We have developed technical knowledge which, although non-patentable, we consider as significant in enabling us to compete. However, the proprietary
nature of such knowledge may be difficult to protect. We have entered into an agreement with each key employee prohibiting such employee from disclosing any confidential information or trade secrets of the Company and prohibiting that employee from engaging in any competitive business while the employee is working for the Company and for a period of one year thereafter. In addition, these agreements also provide that any inventions or discoveries by these individuals relating to the business of the Company will be assigned to the Company and become the Company's sole property.
Claims by competitors and other third parties that our products allegedly infringe the patent rights of others could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The interventional pain management market is characterized by extensive patent and other intellectual property claims, which can create greater potential than in less developed markets for possible allegations of infringement, particularly with respect to newly developed technology. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive and its outcome is difficult to predict. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense to the Company and significant diversion of the efforts of the Company's technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties, or require the Company to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that necessary licenses would be available to the Company on satisfactory terms or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent the Company from manufacturing or selling certain of its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
COMPUSTIM(R), MULTISTIM(R), PAINDOC(R), UNISTIM(R) and OCTRODE(R) are among our registered trademarks. Registration applications are pending for various trademarks, which we believe, have value in the marketplace, including Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, ANS and Renew.
Government Regulation
The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding foreign agencies. The research and development, manufacturing, promotion, marketing and distribution of our products in the United States are governed by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (the "FDC Act and Regulations"). We are subject to inspection by the FDA for compliance with such regulations and procedures.
The FDA has traditionally pursued a rigorous enforcement program to ensure that regulated entities such as the Company comply with the FDC Act and Regulations. A company not in compliance may face a variety of regulatory actions, including warning letters, product detentions, device alerts, mandatory recalls or field corrections, product seizures, injunctive actions or civil penalties and criminal prosecutions of the Company or responsible employees, officers and directors. We were last inspected in the summer of 1996, and no major violations were found.
Under the FDA's requirements, a new medical device cannot be released for commercial use until a pre-market approval application (a "PMA") has been filed with the FDA and the FDA has approved the device's release. If a manufacturer
can establish that a newly developed device is "substantially equivalent" to a legally marketed device, the manufacturer may seek marketing clearance from the FDA to market the device by filing a 510(k) premarket notification with the FDA, which usually takes less time than a PMA. The process of obtaining FDA clearance can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Both a 510(k) and a PMA, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy strictly prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. Although all of our currently marketed products have been the subject of successful 510(k) submissions, we believe that because the products we are currently developing are more innovative, some of these products will require the PMA submission process, which is lengthier and more costly than the 510(k) process.
We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell our products with regard to product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA. The national health or social security organizations of certain countries require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty in complying with these regulations.
To position ourselves for access to European and other international markets, we have maintained certification under the ISO 9000 Series of Standards. ISO 9000 is a set of integrated requirements, which when implemented, form the foundation and framework for an effective quality management system. These standards were developed and published by the ISO, a worldwide federation of national standard bodies, founded in Geneva, Switzerland in 1946. ISO has over 92 member countries. ISO certification is essential to enter European Community markets.
In July 1999, our quality system was re-certified to ISO 9001/EN 46001 certification. The ISO 9001 registration is the most stringent standard in the ISO series and lasts for three years. The German notified body TUV Product Services issued the re-certification certificates. The ISO 9001 standard covers design, production, installation and servicing of products. The EN 46001 covers the same elements as the ISO standard; however, the focus is on quality systems for medical device manufacturing. In addition, we are certified to the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive allowing us to market devices throughout the European Community. We are subject to an annual audit by the notified body to maintain our registrations.
The financial arrangements through which we market, sell and distribute our products may be subject to certain federal and state laws and regulations in the United States with respect to the provision of services or products to patients who are Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries. The "fraud and abuse" laws and regulations prohibit the knowing and willful offer, payment or receipt of anything of value to induce the referral of Medicare or Medicaid patients for services or goods. In addition, the physician anti-referral laws prohibit the referral of Medicare or Medicaid patients for certain "Designated Health Services" to entities in which the referring physician has an ownership or compensation interest. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal penalties, including substantial fines and imprisonment. In a number of states, the scope of fraud and abuse or physician anti-referral laws and regulations, or both, have been extended to include the provision of services or products to all patients, regardless of the source of payment,
although there is variation from state to state as to the exact provisions of such laws or regulations. In other states, and on a national level, several health care reform initiatives have been proposed which would have a similar impact. We believe that our operations and our marketing, sales and distribution practices currently comply in all respects with all current fraud and abuse and physician anti-referral laws and regulations, to the extent they are applicable. Although we do not believe that we will need to undertake any significant expense or modification to our operations or our marketing, sales and distribution practices to comply with federal and state fraud and abuse and physician anti-referral regulations currently in effect or proposed, financial arrangements between manufacturers of medical devices and other health care providers may be subject to increasing regulation in the future. Compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our marketing, sales and distribution practices, and may affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable, but which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Third Party Reimbursement and Cost Containment
Our products are purchased primarily by hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, which then bill various third-party payers for the services provided to the patients. These payers, which include Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance companies, managed care and worker's compensation organizations, reimburse part or all of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices.
Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement for hospitals is based on a fixed amount for admitting a patient with a specific diagnosis. Because of this fixed reimbursement method, hospitals have incentives to use less costly methods in treating Medicare and Medicaid patients, and will frequently make capital expenditures to take advantage of less costly treatment technologies. Frequently, reimbursement is reduced to reflect the availability of a new procedure or technique, and as a result hospitals are generally willing to implement new cost-saving technologies before these downward adjustments take effect. Likewise, because the rate of reimbursement for certain physicians who perform certain procedures has been and may in the future be reduced in the event of further changes in the resource-based relative value scale method of payment calculation, physicians may seek greater cost efficiency in treatment to minimize any negative impact of reduced reimbursement. Any amendments to existing reimbursement rules and regulations which restrict or terminate the reimbursement eligibility (or the extent or amount of coverage) of medical procedures using our products or the eligibility (or the extent or amount of coverage) of our products could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, was experimental or was used for an unapproved application.
Our stimulation systems, while cost-effective compared to repeat back surgeries, have encountered some resistance to third party reimbursement. Although Medicare, Medicaid and many private insurers reimburse for the stimulation systems and procedure, especially after repeat back surgeries have failed to relieve chronic pain, some managed care and private payers occasionally refuse to reimburse for stimulation systems or restrict reimbursement. There can be no assurance that in the future, third-party payers will continue to reimburse for our products, or that their reimbursement levels will not adversely affect the
profitability of our products. In addition, health care costs have risen significantly over the past decade, and there have been and will continue to be proposals by legislators and regulators to curb these costs. Legislative action limiting reimbursement for certain procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In response to the focus of national attention on rising health care costs, a number of changes to reduce costs have been proposed or have begun to emerge. In addition to legislative and regulatory initiatives, there has also been a significant increase in the number of Americans enrolling in some form of managed care plan. It has become a typical practice for hospitals to affiliate themselves with as many managed care plans as possible. Higher managed care penetration typically drives down the prices of health care procedures, which in turn places pressure on medical supply prices. This causes hospitals to implement tighter vendor selection and certification processes, by reducing the number of vendors used, purchasing more products from fewer vendors and trading discounts on price for guaranteed higher volumes to vendors. Hospitals have also sought to control and reduce costs over the last decade by joining group purchasing organizations or purchasing alliances. We cannot predict what continuing or future impact existing or proposed legislation, regulation or such third-party payer measures may have on our future business, financial condition or results of operations.
Changes in reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers could have a substantial and material impact on sales of our products. The development or increased use of more cost-effective treatments could cause such payers to decrease or deny reimbursement to favor these other treatments.
Employees
As of March 20, 2000, we employed 108 full-time employees, 29 in research and development, 23 in sales and marketing, 45 in manufacturing and related operations, and the remainder in executive and administrative positions. None of our employees is represented by a labor union and we consider our employee relations to be good.
Advisory Board
We have established the Advanced Neuromodulation Systems Advisory Board, which is comprised of individuals with substantial expertise in neuromodulation and pain management. Members of our management and scientific and technical staff consult closely with members of the Advisory Board to identify specific areas where techniques are changing and where existing products do not adequately fulfill the needs of the pain physician. The Advisory Board helps management evaluate new product ideas and concepts and once a product is approved for development, its subsequent design and development. The Advisory Board may also participate in the clinical testing of products developed.
Certain members of the Advisory Board are employed by academic institutions and may have commitments to or consulting or advisory agreements with other entities that may limit their availability to us. The members of the Advisory Board may also serve as consultants to other medical device companies. No members of the Advisory Board are expected to devote more than a small portion of their time to the Company.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
In connection with the January 1998 sale of our cardiovascular products division, we granted Atrion a nine-month option to acquire our principal office and manufacturing facility in Allen, Texas for $6.5 million. The facility covers approximately 107,000 square feet and was constructed during 1993 on 19.2 acres of land that we acquired in 1985. Atrion exercised the option to acquire the facility during October 1998 and the transaction closed on February 1, 1999. We repaid the outstanding mortgage debt on the facility of $3.6 million at closing and received net proceeds of $2.7 million after paying expenses related to the transaction. See Note 9- "Sale of CVS Operations/Discontinued Operations" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. No material gain or loss was realized on the sale of the facility. We leased space, furniture and equipment from Atrion until May 1999 at the monthly rate of $48,125 and paid Atrion fifty percent of certain operating expenses including utilities, janitorial services, landscaping services, insurance and property taxes. At that time we moved our operations to a 40,000 square foot leased facility in Plano, Texas, a northeast suburb of Dallas discussed below.
We entered a sixty-three month lease agreement in February 1999 for the Plano facility. Under terms of the lease agreement, which became effective on June 1, 1999, we received three months of free rent and the monthly rental rate for the remaining term of the lease is $48,308. The monthly rental rate includes certain operating expenses such as property taxes on the facility, insurance, landscape and maintenance and janitorial services. We also have a first right of refusal to acquire the facility. We spent approximately $2.4 million for furniture and equipment, leasehold improvements, computer systems, telephone systems and manufacturing clean room for the leased facility. The expense of moving and transitioning into the new facility was immaterial.
ITEM 3.