Item 2 - -Properties.
At September 1, 2000, the acquired properties contained estimated net proved reserves of 153.2 Bcf, 93% of which were proved developed. Almost all of the estimated reserves are assigned to the Vermejo coal formation. The acquired properties are generating net daily sales of approximately 28 MMcf of gas from a total of 151 net wells.
UNITED KINGDOM PROJECT
Evergreen holds exploration licenses covering approximately 470,000 acres in the United Kingdom. In April 2000, the Company began drilling activities on these coal bed methane properties using the Company's own purpose-built equipment and personnel. A total of nine wells have been drilled, and the Company anticipates that its evaluation of the results of the drilling program will be completed in 2001. If the project is successful, the Company believes initial gas sales could begin by the end of 2001. During 2000, Evergreen invested approximately $7.7 million in this project, including approximately $3 million for drilling and fracture stimulation equipment. In 2001, the Company anticipates an additional investment in the U.K. of up to $11 million.
BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Company's objective is to enhance shareholder value by increasing reserves, production, cash flow, earnings and net asset value per share. To accomplish this objective, the Company intends to
capitalize on its experience and operating expertise in coal bed methane properties and on its other competitive strengths, which include:
- an inventory of drilling locations of approximately 750 drilling locations in the Raton Basin,
- a track record for significantly growing the Company's reserve base through development drilling and acquisitions, and
- an industry leading position as a low-cost finder, developer and producer of natural gas.
CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS
GAS MARKETING. Primero Gas Marketing Company ("Primero") is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that was formed to market and sell natural gas for the Company and third parties. To date, Primero has marketed and sold gas only on behalf of the Company, royalty interests and working interest partners. Primero also operates the Company's gas collection systems and purchases all the Company's production from its Raton Basin wells.
Gas production from the Raton Basin is transported by Colorado Interstate Gas Co. ("CIG") through the Campo Lateral, a 115 mile, 16-inch pipeline that connects to CIG's main pipeline system and permits Evergreen to sell its gas into Midwest and East Coast markets.
Current Raton Basin gas sales total approximately 100 MMcf per day. Takeaway capacity on the CIG system from the Raton Basin is currently 150 MMcf per day. CIG is planning an additional 150 MMcf per day expansion in 2001. The Company believes that this expansion will provide sufficient transportation capacity to accommodate significant growth in its gas sales volumes in the future.
The Company's current firm transportation commitments are 85 MMcf of gross gas sales per day. In addition, the Company has committed to an additional 40 MMcf per day, subject to a ramp-up schedule increasing 5 MMcf per day every four months from October 1, 2001 through February 2004. Thus, Evergreen's total transportation obligations committed to will increase in increments to 125 MMcf gross per day by February 2004. If the Company is unable to fulfill its transportation commitments, amounts paid will be credited toward future transportation costs through August 2006.
MAJOR CUSTOMERS. Evergreen has three major customers, Natural Gas Transmission Services, Inc., E Prime Inc. and Aquila Energy Corporation, which purchased approximately 61%, 22% and 12%, respectively, of the Company's gas production for the year ended December 31, 2000. Based on the general demand for gas, the loss of any or all of these customers would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on Evergreen's business. As the Company's base of production grows in the Raton Basin, the Company hopes to be able to enter into long-term contracts with end users at favorable prices. Currently, the Company's gas is sold at spot market prices or under contracts for terms of up to three years.
COMPETITION. The Company competes with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of its business, including many that have significantly greater resources. Such competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than the financial or personnel resources of the Company permit. The ability of the Company to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects for future exploration and development. The availability of a market for oil and natural gas production depends upon numerous factors beyond the control of producers, including but not limited to the availability of other domestic or imported production, the locations and capacity of pipelines, and the effect of federal and state regulation on such production.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY
GENERAL. The Company's business is affected by numerous laws and regulations, including energy, environmental, conservation, tax and other laws and regulations relating to the energy industry. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of injunctive relief or both. Moreover, changes in any of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In view of the many uncertainties with respect to current and future laws and regulations, including their applicability to the Company, the Company cannot predict the overall effect of such laws and regulations on its future operations.
The Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations and that the existence and enforcement of such laws and regulations have no more restrictive effect on the Company's method of operations than on other similar companies in the energy industry.
The following discussion contains summaries of certain laws and regulations and is qualified in its entirety by the foregoing.
FEDERAL REGULATION OF THE SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF OIL AND GAS. Various aspects of the Company's oil and natural gas operations are regulated by agencies of the Federal government. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ("NGA") and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA"). In the past, the Federal government has regulated the prices at which oil and gas could be sold. While "first sales" by producers of natural gas, and all sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Deregulation of wellhead sales in the natural gas industry began with the enactment of the NGPA in 1978. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act (the "Decontrol Act"). The Decontrol Act removed all NGA and NGPA price and non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993.
Commencing in April 1992, the FERC issued Order Nos. 636, 636-A, 636-B, 636-C and 636-D ("Order No. 636"), which require interstate pipelines to provide transportation services separate, or "unbundled," from the pipelines' sales of gas. Also, Order No. 636 requires pipelines to provide open access transportation on a nondiscriminatory basis that is equal for all natural gas shippers. Although Order No. 636 does not directly regulate the Company's production activities, the FERC has stated that it intends for Order No. 636 to foster increased competition within all phases of the natural gas industry. It is unclear what impact, if any, increased competition within the natural gas industry under Order No. 636 will have on the Company's activities.
The courts have largely affirmed the significant features of Order No. 636 and numerous related orders pertaining to the individual pipelines, although certain appeals remain pending and the FERC continues to review and modify its open access regulations. In particular, the FERC is conducting a broad review of its transportation regulations, including how they operate in conjunction with state proposals for retail gas marketing restructuring, whether to eliminate cost-of-service rates for short-term transportation, whether to allocate all short-term capacity on the basis of competitive auctions, and whether changes to long-term transportation policies may also be appropriate to avoid a market bias toward short-term contracts. In February 2000, the FERC issued Order No. 637 amending certain regulations governing interstate natural gas pipeline companies in response to the development of more competitive markets for natural gas and natural gas transportation. The goal of Order No. 637 is to "fine tune" the open access regulations implemented by Order No. 636 to accommodate subsequent changes in the market. Key provisions of Order No. 637 include: (1) waiving the price ceiling for short-term capacity release transactions until September 30, 2002, subject to review and possible extension of the program at that time; (2) permitting value-oriented peak/off peak rates to
better allocate revenue responsibility between short-term and long-term markets; (3) permitting term-differentiated rates, in order to better allocate risks between shippers and the pipeline; (4) revising the regulations related to scheduling procedures, capacity, segmentation, imbalance management, and penalties; (5) retaining the right of first refusal ("ROFR") and the 5 year matching cap for long-term shippers at maximum rates, but significantly narrowing the ROFR for customers that the FERC does not deem to be captive; and (6) adopting new web site reporting requirements that include daily transactional data on all firm and interruptible contracts and daily reporting of scheduled quantities at points or segments. The new reporting requirements became effective September 1, 2000. The Company cannot predict what action the FERC will take on these matters, in the future, nor can it accurately predict whether the FERC's actions will, over the long term, achieve the goal of increasing competition in markets in which the Company's natural gas is sold. However, the Company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken materially differently than other natural gas producers and marketers with which it competes.
Commencing in October 1993, the FERC issued a series of rules (Order Nos. 561 and 561-A) establishing an indexing system under which oil pipelines will be able to change their transportation rates, subject to prescribed ceiling levels. The indexing system, which allows pipelines to make rate changes to track changes in the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods, minus one percent, became effective January 1, 1995. The Company does not believe that these rules affect it any differently than other oil producers and marketers with which it competes.
The FERC has also issued numerous orders confirming the sale and abandonment of natural gas gathering facilities previously owned by interstate pipelines and acknowledging that if the FERC does not have jurisdiction over services provided thereon, then such facilities and services may be subject to regulation by state authorities in accordance with state law. A number of states have either enacted new laws or are considering the adequacy of existing laws affecting gathering rates and/or services. Other state regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but does not generally entail rate regulation. Thus, natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny of state agencies in the future. The Company's gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to increased state regulation of rates or services, although the Company does not believe that it would be affected by such regulation any differently than other natural gas producers or gatherers. In addition, the FERC's approval of transfers of previously regulated gathering systems to independent or pipeline affiliated gathering companies that are not subject to FERC regulation may affect competition for gathering or natural gas marketing services in areas served by those systems and thus may affect both the costs and the nature of gathering services that will be available to interested producers or shippers in the future.
The Company owns certain natural gas pipeline facilities that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to the FERC jurisdiction. Whether on state or federal land, natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny in the post-Order No. 636 environment.
The Company conducts certain operations on federal oil and gas leases, which are administered by the Minerals Management Service (the "MMS"). Federal leases contain relatively standard terms and require compliance with detailed MMS regulations and orders, which are subject to change. Among other restrictions, the MMS has regulations restricting the flaring or venting of natural gas, and has proposed to amend such regulations to prohibit the flaring of liquid hydrocarbons and oil without prior authorization. Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require any Company operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition, cash flows and operations. The MMS issued a final rule that amended its regulations governing the valuation of crude oil produced from federal leases. This new rule, which became effective June 1, 2000, provides that the MMS will collect royalties based
on the market value of oil produced from federal leases. The lawfulness of the new rule has been challenged in federal court. Evergreen cannot predict whether this new rule will be upheld in federal court, nor can the Company predict whether the MMS will take further action on this matter. However, the Company does not believe that, if it were to produce crude oil, this new rule will affect it any differently than other producers and marketers of crude oil.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, the MMS, state commissions and the courts. The Company cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. In the past, the natural gas industry has been heavily regulated. There is no assurance that the regulatory approach currently pursued by various agencies will continue indefinitely. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company does not anticipate that compliance with existing federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations will have a material or significantly adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company or its subsidiaries. No material portion of Evergreen's business is subject to re-negotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the Federal government.
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT. Of the Company's Raton Basin acreage, approximately 134,000 gross acres are held within three federal units that the Company operates and that are administered by the Federal Bureau of Land Management ("BLM"). See "Item 2. Properties--Raton Basin Properties and Operations." Inclusion of property within a unit simplifies lease maintenance for the Company and promotes orderly development of its coal bed methane project.
The BLM controls isolated parcels of federally owned surface and/or minerals in the Raton Basin. To date, two coal bed methane wells have been drilled on BLM minerals. Drilling and development of federal minerals and construction activities on federal surface are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"). BLM has delayed additional drilling on federal oil and gas leases held by Evergreen, pending completion of an environmental assessment under NEPA. Development of adjacent fee lands and minerals has proceeded unhindered. Access to fee lands has not been hindered by the presence of isolated parcels of federal surface. The number of proposed wells on BLM minerals represents approximately one percent of the total number of wells Evergreen has planned in the Raton Basin.
STATE REGULATION. The Company's operations are also subject to regulation at the state and in some cases, county, municipal and local governmental levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells and the disposal of fluids used and produced in connection with operations. The Company's operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include (1) the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, (2) the density of wells that may be drilled and (3) the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, but (except as noted above) does not generally entail rate regulation. These regulatory burdens may affect profitability, and the Company is unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such regulations.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws that regulate the discharge or disposal of materials or substances into the environment and otherwise are intended to protect the environment. Numerous governmental agencies issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties and in some cases injunctive relief for failure to comply. Some laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may,
in certain circumstances, impose "strict liability" for environmental contamination. Such laws render a person or company liable for environmental and natural resource damages, cleanup costs and, in the case of oil spills in certain states, consequential damages without regard to negligence or fault. Other laws, rules and regulations may require the rate of oil and natural gas production to be below the economically optimal rate or may even prohibit exploration or production activities in environmentally sensitive areas. In addition, state laws often require some form of remedial action such as closure of inactive pits and plugging of abandoned wells to prevent pollution from former or suspended operations. Legislation has been proposed and continues to be evaluated in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes." This reclassification would make such wastes subject to much more stringent storage, treatment, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant adverse impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also proposed in certain states from time to time and may include initiatives at county, municipal and local government levels. These various initiatives could have a similar adverse impact on the Company. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases its cost and risk of doing business and consequently affects its profitability.
Compliance with these environmental requirements, including financial assurance requirements and the costs associated with the cleanup of any spill, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on it. Nevertheless, changes in environmental laws have the potential to adversely affect Evergreen's operations. For example, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the current or prior owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that transported, disposed or arranged for the transport or disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for the federal or state government to pursue such claims. It is also not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury or property or natural resource damages allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. Under CERCLA, certain oil and gas materials and products are, by definition, excluded from the term "hazardous substances." At least two Federal courts have held that certain wastes associated with the production of crude oil may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA. Similarly, under the federal Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), which governs the generation, treatment, storage and disposal of "solid wastes" and "hazardous wastes," certain oil and gas materials and wastes are exempt from the definition of "hazardous wastes." This exemption continues to be subject to judicial interpretation and increasingly stringent state interpretation. During the normal course of the Company's operations, the Company generates or has generated in the past exempt and non-exempt wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject to RCRA and comparable state statutes and implementing regulations. The federal Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and various state agencies continue to promulgate regulations that limit the disposal and permitting options for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes.
The Company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, several properties that have long been used to store and maintain oil and gas exploration and production equipment. In particular, current and prior operations of the Company included oil and gas production in the Rocky Mountain states and the portion of the Permian Basin that lies within the State of New Mexico.
Although the Company utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard for the industry at the time, hydrocarbons, materials or other wastes may in the past have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, many of these properties have from time to time been operated by third parties whose management of hydrocarbons, hazardous materials and wastes was not under the Company's control. These properties and the waste disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws and regulations. Under such laws and regulations, the Company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination).
In connection with the Company's coal bed methane gas production, the Company from time to time conducts production enhancement techniques, including various activities designed to induce hydraulic fracturing of the coal bed. While the Company performs its production enhancement techniques in substantial compliance with the requirements set forth by the State of Colorado, neither Colorado nor the EPA regulates this coal bed formation hydraulic fracturing as a form of underground injection. On August 7, 1997, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit held, in a case brought by a citizen environmental organization, that hydraulic fracturing performed in coal bed methane gas production in Alabama falls within the definition of "underground injection" as defined in the federal Safe Drinking Water Act and, therefore, the EPA is required to regulate this activity. As a consequence of this holding, the Eleventh Circuit also granted a petition filed by the plaintiff in the case to review the EPA's refusal to initiate proceedings that would withdraw federal approval of Alabama's Underground Injection Control program. The EPA has recently commenced a comprehensive study of environmental risks associated with coal bed methane hydraulic fracturing techniques and anticipates that its final report will be completed by winter 2002. It is possible that hydraulic fracturing of coal beds for methane gas production will become regulated within the United States as a form of underground injection, resulting in the imposition of stricter performance standards (which, if not met, could result in diminished opportunities for methane gas production enhancement) and increased administrative and operating costs for the Company. Evergreen's management cannot predict at this time whether potential future regulation of hydraulic fracturing as a form of underground injection would have an adverse material effect on the Company's operations or financial position. However, such regulation is not expected to be any more burdensome to the Company than it would be to other similarly situated companies involved in coal bed methane gas production or tight gas sands production within the United States.
In Evergreen's coal bed methane gas production, the Company typically brings naturally occurring groundwater to the surface as a by-product of the production of methane gas. This "produced groundwater" is either re-injected into the subsurface or stored or disposed of in evaporation ponds or permitted natural collection features located on the surface at or near the well-site in compliance with federal and state statutes and regulations. In some cases, the produced groundwater is used for stock watering, agricultural or dust suppression purposes, also in substantial compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations. The legal and regulatory classification of this produced groundwater under the environmental laws discussed above as well as under the Clean Water Act, a strict liability statute that governs the discharge of "pollutants" to "waters of the United States," has been a source of dispute, as discussed below and in the section entitled "Legal Proceedings." Under the Clean Water Act and various other state requirements and regulations, the EPA, the State of Colorado Department of Public Health and the Environment ("CDPHE"), and the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission ("COGCC") each continue to assert administrative and regulatory enforcement authority over the storage and disposal of such produced groundwater. The EPA and the CDPHE have recently clarified their classification of either: (1) produced groundwater as a "pollutant," and (2) the storage, use and disposal of such water on the surface as a "discharge to waters of the United States." This regulatory determination could have a significant impact on the regulatory treatment of this
groundwater management practice and on the Company's understanding of its past and future compliance in connection with the Clean Water Act. On January 7, 2000, EOC, one of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries, agreed to a Compliance Order on Consent from the CDPHE that resolved certain water storage and discharge issues between the CDPHE and EOC. Under the Consent Order, EOC has obtained additional permits and has the option to install a water supply system as a Supplemental Environmental Project ("SEP"), in lieu of civil penalties of $173,000, that will benefit rural landowners in the areas in which the Company operates. The Company may process a portion of its produced water to meet potability standards or pursue other water supply project options in cooperation with local governments. Under the Consent Order, the minimum cost of an SEP is $347,440 and the maximum cost of the SEP is $367,000. The Consent Order resolves all outstanding issues between EOC and Colorado state regulatory agencies, particularly the CDPHE, governing the discharge of produced water from the Company's coal bed methane operations in the Raton Basin.
The Company's operations involve the use of gas fired compressors to transport collected gas; these compressors are subject to federal and state regulations for the control of air emissions. The Company has received a Title V permit application for its Burro Canyon compressor facility and construction permits for natural gas-fired compressors at other facilities, as applicable. Title V status for a facility results in significant increased testing, monitoring and administrative and compliance costs. To date, other compressor facilities have not triggered Title V requirements due to the design of the facility and the use of state-of-the-art engines and pollution control equipment that serve to reduce air emissions. In the autumn of 2000, Evergreen made a capital investment in enhanced emissions control equipment for six of its compressors at the Rita Canyon compressor facility which kept this facility below the Title V threshold. The Company has obtained construction permits for additional compression in excess of current needs in anticipation of increased production from Raton Basin. However, in the future, additional facilities could become subject to Title V requirements as compressor facilities are expanded or if regulatory interpretations of Title V applicability change. Stack testing and emissions monitoring costs will grow as these facilities are expanded and if they trigger Title V. Evergreen recently received a Compliance Order on Consent resolving the CDPHE Air Pollution Control Division's allegations that the Company violated certain air permitting requirements. As settlement of these claims, the Company has agreed to pay a $52,000 civil penalty and perform a SEP, including the installation of pollution control equipment, at a combined cost of approximately $100,000. This work has been completed. Evergreen is also engaged in discussions with CDPHE Air Pollution Control Division over the nature of a state permit requirement to report "insignificant sources" of emissions at the Burro Canyon facility. Evergreen believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to the control of air emissions at all of its facilities. The Company is exploring the possibility of favorable tax treatment from the State of Colorado for the installation of oxidizing catalysts to reduce carbon monoxide emissions from the Company's compressor facilities and recovery of some compliance costs from the compressor engine manufacturer.
Although the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above, including insuring the costs of clean-up operations, public liability and physical damage, there is no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover all such costs, that such insurance will continue to be available in the future or that such insurance will be available at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operations.
The Company's oil and gas operations outside of the United States are subject to similar foreign governmental controls and restrictions pertaining to the environment. These regulations, controls and restrictions may be more complex and onerous, resulting in increased costs for regulatory compliance over similar operations in the U.S. These costs may be increased by foreign government's unfamiliarity with coal bed methane operations and onshore drilling practices that are standard in the United States.
The Company believes that compliance with existing requirements of such governmental bodies has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's operations.
At this time, the Company has no plans to make any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a preliminary title examination is conducted at the time the Company acquires leases of properties believed to be suitable for drilling operations. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted by independent attorneys. Once production from a given well is established, the Company prepares a division order title report indicating the proper parties and percentages for payment of production proceeds, including royalties. The Company believes that titles to its leasehold properties are good and defensible in accordance with standards generally acceptable in the oil and gas industry.
EMPLOYEES
At February 5, 2001, the Company had 132 full-time employees.
CERTAIN RISKS
OIL AND GAS PRICES ARE VOLATILE, AND AN EXTENDED DECLINE IN PRICES WOULD HURT THE COMPANY'S PROFITABILITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
Evergreen's revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of its oil and gas properties depend heavily on prevailing market prices for oil and gas. Management of the Company expects the markets for oil and gas to continue to be volatile. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. It could reduce the Company's cash flow and borrowing capacity, as well as the value and the amount of its gas reserves. All of Evergreen's proved reserves are natural gas. Therefore, the Company is more directly impacted by volatility in the price of natural gas. Various factors beyond the Company's control will affect prices of oil and gas, including:
- worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas,
- the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls,
- political instability or armed conflict in oil or gas producing regions,
- the price and level of foreign imports,
- worldwide economic conditions,
- marketability of production,
- the level of consumer demand,
- the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels,
- the availability of pipeline capacity,
- weather conditions, and
- actions of federal, state, local and foreign authorities.
These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and gas.
The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of its oil and gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. Application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated prices in effect as of the end of each fiscal quarter and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded, even if prices were depressed for only a short period of time. The Company may be required to write down the carrying value of its oil and gas properties when oil and gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings, but would not impact cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date.
THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS REQUIRE LARGE AMOUNTS OF CAPITAL.
Evergreen's current development plans will require it to make large capital expenditures for the exploration and development of its natural gas properties. Also, the Company must secure substantial capital to explore and develop its international projects. Historically, Evergreen has funded its capital expenditures through a combination of funds generated internally from sales of production or properties, the issuance of equity, long-term debt financing and short-term financing arrangements. The Company currently does not have any sources of additional financing other than its credit facility. Management cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to the Company on acceptable terms. Future cash flows and the availability of financing will be subject to a number of variables, such as:
- the success of its coal bed methane project in the Raton Basin,
- the Company's success in locating and producing new reserves,
- the level of production from existing wells, and
- prices of oil and natural gas.
Issuing equity securities to satisfy the Company's financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Debt financing could lead to:
- a substantial portion of the Company's operating cash flow being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest,
- the Company being more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns, and
- restrictions on the Company's operations.
If the Company's revenues were to decrease due to lower oil and natural gas prices, decreased production or other reasons, and if it could not obtain capital through its credit facility or otherwise, the Company's ability to execute its development plans, replace its reserves or maintain production levels could be greatly limited.
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE COMPANY'S RESERVES AND FUTURE NET REVENUE ESTIMATES IS UNCERTAIN.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves, which comprise a significant portion of the Company's reserves, are by their nature uncertain. The reserve data included in this Form 10-K is estimated. Although management believes they are reasonable, actual production, revenues and reserve expenditures will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, by necessity, are projections based on geologic and engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that are difficult to measure. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions governing future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom may vary substantially. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of the reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to the Company's reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. See "Properties--Natural Gas Reserves."
In addition, readers should not construe PV-10 as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties. Management has based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, in accordance with applicable regulations, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. For example, the reserve reports included in this Form 10-K were estimated using a calculated weighted average sales price of $9.18 per Mcf, which was based on gas prices of $9.28 per Mcf, the spot market price for gas on December 31, 2000. During 2000, the Company's net realized gas prices were as high as $11.30 per Mcf and as low as $2.03 per Mcf. Many factors will affect actual future net cash flows, including:
- the amount and timing of actual production,
- supply and demand for natural gas,
- curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers, and
- changes in governmental regulations or taxation.
The timing of the production of oil and natural gas properties and of the related expenses affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and, thus, their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which the Company is required to use to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates and risks to which Evergreen's business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
THE COMPANY DEPENDS HEAVILY ON EXPANSION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE RATON BASIN.
All of Evergreen's proved reserves are in the Raton Basin, and its future growth plans rely heavily on increasing production and reserves in the Raton Basin. The Company's proved reserves will decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent the Company conducts successful exploration or development activities or acquires other properties containing proved reserves.
At December 31, 2000, the Company had estimated net proved undeveloped reserves of approximately 330 Bcf, which constituted approximately 38% of its total estimated net proved reserves. The Company's development plan includes increasing its reserve base through continued drilling and development of its existing properties in the Raton Basin. Evergreen cannot be sure, though, that its
planned projects in the Raton Basin will lead to significant additional reserves or that it will be able to continue drilling productive wells at anticipated finding and development costs.
EVERGREEN'S PRODUCING PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS CARRY SIGNIFICANT RISKS.
Evergreen's recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of producing properties. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors beyond the Company's control. These factors include recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, the Company performs a review of the subject properties that it believes is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, the review will not permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. The Company does not inspect every well. Even when a well is inspected, structural and environmental problems are not necessarily discovered. Normally, Evergreen acquires interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In addition, competition for producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of its competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those available to the Company. Therefore, Evergreen cannot assure you that it will be able to acquire oil and gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that it will acquire such properties at acceptable prices.
THE COMPANY'S INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE.
Major oil companies, independent producers, institutional and individual investors are actively seeking oil and gas properties throughout the world, along with the equipment, labor and materials required to operate properties. Many of the Company's competitors have financial and technological resources vastly exceeding those available to Evergreen. Many oil and gas properties are sold in a competitive bidding process in which the Company may lack technological information or expertise available to other bidders. The Company cannot be sure that it will be successful in acquiring and developing profitable properties in the face of this competition.
THE OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION BUSINESS INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RISK.
The business of exploring for and, to a lesser extent, developing oil and gas properties is an activity that involves a high degree of business and financial risk. Property acquisition decisions generally are based on various assumptions and subjective judgments that are speculative. Although available geological and geophysical information can provide information about the potential of a property, it is impossible to predict accurately the ultimate production potential, if any, of a particular property or well. Moreover, the successful completion of an oil or gas well does not ensure a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic.
THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO OPERATING HAZARDS THAT COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES.
The oil and natural gas business involves operating hazards such as well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, any of which could cause the Company substantial losses. In addition, the Company may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of property it owns or leases. As a result, the Company may face substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause Evergreen to incur losses. An event that is not fully covered by insurance--for instance, losses resulting from
pollution and environmental risks, which are not fully insurable--could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
EXPLORATORY DRILLING IS AN UNCERTAIN PROCESS WITH MANY RISKS.
Exploratory drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that the Company will not find any commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations, including:
- unexpected drilling conditions,
- pressure or irregularities in formations,
- equipment failures or accidents,
- adverse weather conditions,
- compliance with governmental requirements, and
- shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment.
The Company's future drilling activities may not be successful, nor can Evergreen management be sure that the Company's overall drilling success rate or its drilling success rate for activity within a particular area will not decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Also, Evergreen may not be able to obtain any options or lease rights in potential drilling locations that it identifies. Although the Company has identified numerous potential drilling locations, management cannot be sure that Evergreen will ever drill them or that it will produce natural gas from them or any other potential drilling locations.
HEDGING TRANSACTIONS MAY LIMIT THE COMPANY'S POTENTIAL GAINS.
To manage Evergreen's exposure to price risks in the marketing of its natural gas, the Company enters into natural gas fixed price physical delivery contracts as well as commodity price swap contracts from time to time with respect to a portion of its current or future production. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile natural gas prices, these transactions may limit the Company's potential gains if natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose Evergreen to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:
- the Company's production is less than expected,
- there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for the Company's production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement,
- the counterparties to the Company's futures contracts fail to perform the contracts, or
- a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas prices.
THE COMPANY MAY FACE UNANTICIPATED WATER DISPOSAL COSTS.
Based on the Company's previous experience with coal bed methane gas production in the Raton Basin, management believes that the COGCC will continue to routinely approve permits for the use of well-site pits and evaporation ponds for the disposal of produced water. Where groundwater produced from the Raton Basin coal seams will not exceed surface discharge permit levels, and in many cases will meet state and federal primary drinking water standards, Evergreen can lawfully discharge the water into arroyos and surface waters pursuant to permits obtained from the State of Colorado. All of these disposal options require an extensive third-party water sampling and laboratory analysis program to
ensure compliance with state permit standards. These monitoring costs are directly related to the number of well-site pits, evaporation ponds and discharge points.
Where water of lesser quality is discovered or the Company's wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limits, Evergreen may have to drill additional disposal wells to re-inject the produced water back into deep underground rock formations. Produced water is currently injected at four such wells and permits to drill three more of these underground injection control (UIC) wells have been received. If any of the following occur (1) the Company cannot obtain future permits from the State of Colorado, (2) water of lesser quality is discovered, (3) the Company's wells produce excess water or new laws or (4) regulations require water to be disposed of in a different manner, the costs to dispose of this produced water may increase, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations in this area.
Evergreen has been the defendant in a lawsuit under the federal Water Pollution Control Act, or Clean Water Act, relating to regulatory requirements for its water disposal from certain of its Raton Basin wells. See "Legal Proceedings" for additional information with respect to this lawsuit.
THE COMPANY HAS LIMITED PROTECTION FOR ITS TECHNOLOGY AND DEPENDS ON TECHNOLOGY OWNED BY OTHERS.
The Company uses operating practices that management believes are of significant value in developing coal bed methane resources. In most cases, patent or other intellectual property protection is unavailable for this technology. The Company's use of independent contractors in most aspects of its drilling and completion operations makes the protection of such technology more difficult. Moreover, the Company relies on technological know-how of the independent contractors that it retains for its oil and gas operations. The Company has no long-term agreements with these contractors and management cannot be sure that the Company will continue to have access to this know-how.
THE COMPANY'S INDUSTRY IS HEAVILY REGULATED.
Federal, state and local authorities extensively regulate the oil and gas industry. Legislation and regulations affecting the industry are under constant review for amendment or expansion, raising the possibility of changes that may affect, among other things, the pricing or marketing of oil and gas production. Noncompliance with statutes and regulations may lead to substantial penalties, and the overall regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases profitability. State and local authorities regulate various aspects of oil and gas drilling and production activities, including the drilling of wells (through permit and bonding requirements), the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, environmental matters, safety standards, the sharing of markets, production limitations, plugging and abandonment, and restoration.
THE COMPANY MUST COMPLY WITH COMPLEX ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS.
The Company's operations are subject to complex and constantly changing environmental laws and regulations adopted by U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as by foreign governments where the Company is engaged in exploration or production operations. New laws or regulations, or changes to current requirements, could have a material adverse effect on its business. State, federal and local environmental agencies have relatively little experience with the regulation of coal bed methane operations, which are technologically different from conventional oil and gas operations. This inexperience has created uncertainty regarding how these agencies will interpret air, water and waste requirements and other regulations to coal bed methane drilling, fracture stimulation methods, production and water disposal operations. Evergreen will continue to be subject to uncertainty associated with new regulatory interpretations and inconsistent interpretations between state and federal agencies. The Company could face significant liabilities to the government and third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, and Evergreen could have to
spend substantial amounts on investigations, litigation and remediation. The Company cannot be sure that existing environmental laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or enforced, or as they may be interpreted, enforced or altered in the future, will not materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. As a result, the Company may face material indemnity claims with respect to properties it owns or has owned.
THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS DEPENDS ON TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES OWNED BY OTHERS.
The marketability of the Company's gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. Although the Company has some contractual control over the transportation of its product, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect its operations. Federal and state regulation of gas and oil production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, and general economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's ability to produce, gather and transport natural gas.
MARKET CONDITIONS COULD CAUSE THE COMPANY TO INCUR LOSSES ON ITS TRANSPORTATION CONTRACTS.
The Company has gas transportation contracts that require it to transport minimum volumes of natural gas. If the Company ships smaller volumes, it may be liable for the shortfall. Unforeseen events, including production problems or substantial decreases in the price for natural gas, could cause the Company to ship less than the required volumes, resulting in losses on these contracts. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
THE COMPANY'S INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS OF DOING BUSINESS ABROAD.
Evergreen holds exploration licenses onshore in the United Kingdom and in northern Chile and an interest in offshore exploration in the Falkland Islands. International operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including, among others, risk of war, revolution, border disputes, expropriation, re-negotiation or modification of existing contracts, import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs, taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, exchange controls, limits on allowable levels of production, currency fluctuations, labor disputes and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over Evergreen's international operations.
THE COMPANY DEPENDS ON KEY PERSONNEL.
Evergreen's success will continue to depend on the continued services of its executive officers and a limited number of other senior management and technical personnel. Loss of the services of any of these people could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. The Company does not have employment agreements with any of the executive officers.
THE COMPANY DOES NOT PAY DIVIDENDS.
The Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its common stock and management has no intention to do so in the near future.
THE COMPANY'S ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS HAVE PROVISIONS THAT DISCOURAGE CORPORATE TAKEOVERS AND COULD PREVENT SHAREHOLDERS FROM REALIZING A PREMIUM ON THEIR INVESTMENT.
The Company's articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. These provisions, among other things, provide for noncumulative voting in the election of the board and impose procedural requirements on shareholders who wish to make nominations for the election of directors or propose other actions at shareholders'
meetings. Also, the Company's articles of incorporation authorize the Board to issue up to 24,900,000 shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights, of those shares as the Board may determine. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other and with the rights plan described below, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to shareholders for their common stock.
On July 7, 1997 Evergreen's Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights agreement, pursuant to which uncertificated stock purchase rights were distributed to shareholders of the Company at a rate of one right for each share of common stock held of record as of July 22, 1997. The rights plan is designed to enhance the Board's ability to prevent an acquirer from depriving shareholders of the long-term value of their investment and to protect shareholders against attempts to acquire Evergreen by means of unfair or abusive takeover tactics. However, the existence of the rights plan may impede a takeover of Evergreen not supported by the Board, including a takeover that may be desired by a majority of the Company's shareholders or involving a premium over the prevailing stock price.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
OPERATIONS
The Company's wholly-owned operating subsidiary, EOC, is primarily responsible for drilling, evaluation and production activities associated with various properties. As of February 28, 2001, EOC was serving as operator for approximately 482 gross producing wells owned by the Company.
The Company believes that, as operator, it is in a better position to control costs, safety, and timeliness of work as well as other critical factors affecting the economics of a well or a property, including maintaining good community relations.
EOC presently operates wells which represent 97% of Evergreen's proved reserves.
NATURAL GAS RESERVES
The table below sets forth the Company's quantities of proved reserves, as audited as of December 31, 2000 by independent petroleum engineers Netherland Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSAI"). For the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the proved reserves were audited by both NSAI and Resource Services International, Inc. All of these proved reserves were located in the continental U.S., and the present value of estimated future net revenues from these reserves was calculated on a non-escalated price basis discounted at 10 percent per year as of periods indicated. There has been no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event that is believed to have caused a significant change in estimated proved reserves subsequent to December 31, 2000.
Reference should be made to Note 15 (Supplemental Oil and Gas Information) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information pertaining to the Company's proved oil
and gas reserves. During fiscal 2000, the Company did not file any reports that included estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves with any federal agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SALES
The following table sets forth the Company's net natural gas sales for the periods indicated.
AVERAGE SALES PRICES, LEASE OPERATING EXPENSES, TRANSPORTATION COSTS AND PRODUCTION TAXES
The following table sets forth the average sales price and the average lease operating expenses, transportation costs and production taxes per Mcf, for the periods indicated.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
As of December 31, 2000, Evergreen had 520 gross and 491 net productive wells. The Company had no productive oil wells as of that date. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells.
ACREAGE
At December 31, 2000, Evergreen held developed and undeveloped acreage as set forth below:
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the gross and net acres subject to Colorado leases summarized in the table of undeveloped acreage.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The Company's drilling activities for the periods indicated are set forth below:
COAL BED METHANE VERSUS TRADITIONAL NATURAL GAS
Methane is the primary commercial component of the natural gas stream produced from traditional gas wells. Methane also exists in its natural state in coal seams. Natural gas produced from traditional wells also contains, in varying amounts, other hydrocarbons. However, the natural gas produced from coal beds generally contains only methane and, after simple water dehydration, is pipeline-quality gas.
Coal bed methane production is similar to traditional natural gas production in terms of the physical producing facilities and the product produced. However, the subsurface mechanisms that allow the gas to move to the wellbore and the producing characteristics of coal bed methane wells are very different from traditional natural gas production. Unlike conventional gas wells, which require a porous and permeable reservoir, hydrocarbon migration and a natural structural and/or stratigraphic trap, the coal bed methane gas is trapped in the molecular structure of the coal itself until released by pressure changes resulting from the removal of in situ water.
Methane is created as part of the coalification process, though coals vary in their methane content per ton. In addition to being in open spaces in the coal structure, methane is absorbed onto the inner coal surfaces. When the coal is hydraulically fracture stimulated and exposed to lower pressures through the de-watering process, the gas leaves (desorbs from) the coal. Whether a coal bed will produce commercial quantities of methane gas depends on the coal quality, its original content of gas per ton of coal, the thickness of the coal beds, the reservoir pressure and the existence of natural fractures (permeability) through which the released gas can flow to the wellbore. Frequently, coal beds are partly or completely saturated with water. As the water is produced, internal pressures on the coal are decreased, allowing the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Unlike traditional gas wells, new coal bed methane wells often produce water for several months and then, as the water production decreases, natural gas production increases as the coal seams de-water.
In order to establish commercial gas production rates, a permanent conduit between the individual coal seams and the wellbore must be created. This is accomplished by hydraulically creating and propping open with special quality sand, artificial fractures within the coal seams (known as "fracing" in the industry) so the pathway for water and gas migration to the wellbore is enhanced. These fractures are filled (propped) with uniform sized sand and become the conduits for water and methane to reach the well. The ability of gas to move through the coal or rocks to the wellbore from its place of origination in the formation is the key determinant of the rate at which a well will produce.
RATON BASIN PROPERTIES AND OPERATIONS
The Raton Basin is approximately 80 miles long and 50 miles wide, located in southern Colorado and northern New Mexico. The Raton Basin contains two coal bearing formations, the Vermejo formation coals located at depths of between 450 and 3,500 feet and the shallower Raton formation coals, located at depths from the surface to approximately 2,000 feet. To date, the majority of Evergreen's production has been from the Vermejo formation coals; however, the Raton formation coal seams are now being successfully developed as well.
DEVELOPMENT HISTORY. Exploration for coal bed methane began in the Raton Basin in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing over 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas out of the Raton Basin prevented full-scale development until January 1995, when CIG constructed the Picketwire Lateral.
Since December 1991, the Company has acquired oil and gas leases covering approximately 258,000 gross acres in the Raton Basin. The initial 70,000 acres were acquired in 1991 with additional acreage purchased from individual owners under various lease terms. Additional acreage positions and production have been increased by purchases in July 1998 and December 1998.
Effective September 1, 2000, Evergreen acquired approximately 24,000 gross acres of producing coal bed methane properties in the Raton Basin for $181.6 million from an affiliate of KLT Gas, Inc., which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Kansas City Power & Light Company ("KLT"). The purchase was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. At closing, the Company paid total consideration of $176 million consisting of approximately $70 million in cash, $100 million in mandatory redeemable preferred stock and $6 million in the Company's common stock. In addition to the consideration paid at the closing of the acquisition, on January 5, 2001, the Company delivered 116,009 additional shares of common stock valued at $4 million, under the terms of the acquisition agreement, because the average of the monthly settle prices for the 2001 NYMEX natural gas contracts exceeded $4.465 per MMBtu. Also, as additional purchase consideration, Evergreen paid monthly net profits interest payments totaling approximately $1,505,000 for September through December 31, 2000. The purchase price allocation is preliminary and will be finalized after management's final review of the relative fair values of the properties purchased.
Currently, Evergreen has a 100% working interest in three federal units, the Spanish Peaks Unit, the Cottontail Pass Unit and the Sangre de Cristo Unit. The total gross acreage in the federal units is approximately 134,000 acres. The Company has been named the operator for all three of these units. Formation of a unit simplifies lease maintenance so that the Company, as the operator, can base development decisions within the unit on technical, geologic and geophysical data and operational and cultural considerations rather than on the fulfillment of lease term obligations.
Because of the inclusion of federal leases in the unit, operation and production within a federal unit is governed by federal rules. Production from any well in the unit area will maintain all of the leases beyond their primary terms. In October 1997, the first "participating area" was designated by the federal Bureau of Land Management under the Unit Agreement. Gas production in the participating area will be pooled and shared by the royalty owners, overriding royalty owners and working interest owners in that area in proportion to their acreage ownership of the mineral estate in the area. The participating area will be adjusted annually to encompass additional acreage as additional wells are completed.
Evergreen also has working interests of between 50% and 100% in areas adjacent to the federal units, which include the Long Canyon and Lorencito areas and the Primero, Rita and Weston tracts. These areas comprise approximately 106,000 acres.
RATON BASIN GEOLOGY. In the Raton Basin, Evergreen produces methane almost entirely from the Vermejo coals, consisting of several individual seams ranging in thickness between 1 and 12 feet, and at
drilling depths between 450 and 3,500 feet below the surface. The Vermejo total coal thickness ranges from 5 to 50 feet thick throughout the Raton Basin, being thickest in the center of the Basin, which the Company's acreage surrounds. The coal beds and surrounding sedimentary rocks formed during the late Cretaceous to early Tertiary period, between 65 and 40 million years ago. The Raton Basin is a highly asymmetric downward fold in the earth's crust that is approximately 80 miles long north to south and about 50 miles wide east to west. Plant material accumulated in thick layers within coastal swamps in the Raton Basin and was subsequently buried and subjected to heat and pressure, which formed the coals. Since these coals were buried, continued mountain building, in combination with basin downwarping, created an extensive series of faults and fractures in the coals and surrounding rocks. Later, the area was intruded by hot liquid rock or "magma" from lower in the earth's crust, which cooled to form two large mountain structures in the center of the Raton Basin known as the Spanish Peaks. The magma moved up through existing faults and fractures and created additional fractures that radiate outward from the Spanish Peaks. As the magma cooled, its heat altered the surrounding rocks, including the Vermejo and Raton coal beds. Evergreen believes that the simultaneous downwarping of the Raton trough and Larimide age mountain building with subsequent relaxation (extension) and the subsequent magmatic intrusions into the Raton Basin have matured the coals and enhanced the ability of the Vermejo and Raton coals to yield coal bed methane gas.
In the Raton Basin, Evergreen has found some coal seams to be continuous between wells over distances of several miles, though the thickness of these beds are variable. Individual wells are often completed to produce gas from 5 to 15 individual coal beds with individual thickness between 1 and 12 feet.
COAL BED METHANE TECHNOLOGY. The Company has developed what management believes to be effective procedures for fracing the Vermejo and Raton coals in its Raton Basin wells. In addition, the Company has developed well completion and specialized drilling techniques that are suited to the Raton Basin. Traditional gas wells are drilled with the use of rotary drill bits cooled and lubricated by drilling fluids or "mud." Coal bed methane production is particularly sensitive to the natural permeability of the coals. Exposing the Raton Basin coals to drilling mud appears to significantly reduce the permeability of the coals by plugging the coal cleat system and natural fractures in the coals. Therefore, Evergreen uses percussion air drilling (similar to a jackhammer) without traditional drilling muds in drilling its wells.
WATER PRODUCTION AND DISPOSAL. Based on the Company's previous experience in coal bed methane production in the Raton Basin and extensive laboratory analysis of water samples taken from its coal bed methane wells, management believes that the groundwater produced from the Raton Basin coal seams will not exceed permit levels and will continue to be low in total dissolved solids and show a general absence of hydrocarbon contaminants such as benzene, in many cases meeting state and federal primary drinking water standards. Recent gas analyses confirm that the gas stream is 99% pure methane and lacks other hydrocarbon sources of contamination. This means that the Company can lawfully dispose of water into well-site pits and evaporation ponds pursuant to permits obtained from the State of Colorado. In some cases the water is of such quality that it can be discharged to arroyos and surface water under a general water discharge permit issued to the Company by the State of Colorado. This permit gives Evergreen the flexibility to add water discharge points on an as-needed basis with minimal administrative paperwork and within 30 days or less of application. Evergreen currently has in excess of 200 approved discharge points. The Company has applied for a second general discharge permit for proposed well sites in the Apishapa River drainage in the northern most portion of Evergreen's acreage and for an increase in the total volume of water permitted for surface discharge. Approval of these requests is uncertain and is dependent upon completion of additional study by the State of Colorado. These and other surface disposal options require an extensive third-party water sampling and laboratory analysis program to ensure compliance with state permit standards. These monitoring costs are directly related to the number of well-site pits, evaporation ponds and
discharge points. Because it originates in a natural groundwater system, there is some uncertainty whether water currently being discharged to streams and arroyos will continue to meet permit standards for total iron and suspended solids. Water not meeting these discharge standards can be disposed of in well-site pits and evaporation ponds.
If water of lesser quality is discovered or Evergreen's wells produce water in excess of the applicable permit limits, the Company may have to drill additional disposal wells to re-inject the produced water into deeper sandstone horizons. This would also have to be accomplished through an appropriately issued permit that has been routinely approved in the past.
RATON BASIN PRODUCTION. Evergreen's natural gas sales from the Raton Basin did not commence until the completion of a pipeline system in January 1995, which connected its Raton Basin wells to the CIG pipelines. From January 1995 through December 2000, the Company sold an aggregate of approximately 52 Bcf of coal bed methane gas from the Raton Basin. Evergreen's net daily gas sales are currently approximately 78 MMcf per day. Because of the importance of removing water from the coal seams to enhance gas production, the Company expects to continue production from more modest wells because of the beneficial ambient effect of pressure reduction in adjacent, more productive wells. Each well creates its own "cone of depression" around the wellbore. The Company believes that some of its Raton Basin wells on adjacent 160-acre drill sites have already created overlapping cones of depression, enhancing gas production in each well within this pattern. In some cases this pattern of interference can be enhanced by drilling a fifth well in the 640-acre section.
The Raton Basin gas does not contain significant amounts of contaminants, such as hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide or nitrogen, that are sometimes present in traditional natural gas production. Therefore, the properties of the Raton Basin gas, such as heat content per unit volume (Btu), are very close to the average properties of pipeline gas from conventional gas wells.
UNITED KINGDOM
In 1991 and 1992, Evergreen's wholly owned subsidiary, Evergreen Resources (U.K.) Ltd. ("ERUK"), was awarded seven onshore United Kingdom hydrocarbon exploration licenses for the development of coal bed methane gas and conventional hydrocarbons. These original licenses provided ERUK with the largest onshore acreage position in the United Kingdom, covering substantially all of six distinct onshore United Kingdom basins.
Selection of the licensed areas was made after evaluating geological, geophysical, petrophysical and measured methane gas content databases. The majority of the original database was acquired through technology sharing agreements with British Coal Corporation, which shared relevant available data on the six basins and granted use of this data to ERUK. ERUK has augmented this data with proprietary seismic and coal bed methane well data and also geologic data from the British Geologic Survey, and other sources.
During the period from 1992 to 1994, Evergreen conducted seismic work and drilled three wells under two of the original licenses. The wells encountered 30 feet to 80 feet of gross coal intervals. Two of the wells were hydraulically fracture stimulated and one was tested for permeability. Following extensive production testing, none of the three wells produced gas in economic quantities. The three wells are presently shut-in.
In 1997, under a new onshore licensing regime implemented by the U.K. Department of Trade and Industry, the Company converted its original licenses to new onshore licenses, called Petroleum Exploration and Development Licenses. Under these new licenses, the Company retains approximately 470,000 acres, which were high-graded for coal bed methane and conventional hydrocarbon potential. These licenses provide up to a 30-year term with optional periodic relinquishment of portions of the
licenses, subject to future development plans. There are no royalties or burdens encumbering these licenses.
Management believes that a major coal bed methane resource exists within the areas subject to the current licenses. However, further evaluation will be required to confirm this belief and determine the economic viability of extracting any reserves. Evaluation is expected to occur on a license-by-license basis because success or lack of success on one license may not be translated to similar results on other licenses or separate geologic basins.
In April 2000, the Company began drilling activities on its coal bed methane gas project in the United Kingdom. A total of nine wells have been drilled to date, of which five were coal bed methane wells, three were mine-gas interaction wells and one was a gob gas well. Total well depth ranged from 2,213 feet to 3,960 feet for coal bed methane wells and 1,485 feet to 2,156 feet for the mine-gas interaction wells. Total coal thickness ranged from 75 feet to 97 feet of coal. During 2000, the Company fracture stimulated the five coal bed methane wells using its own pumping equipment in conjunction with a new completion technology utilizing "coiled tubing." Evergreen believes this is the first time that nitrified foam fracs using coiled tubing technology have been used in the United Kingdom. Coiled tubing completions isolate individual coal seams that are to be fraced versus fracing a group of coals using current technology. Coiled tubing also provides for a better in-zone propped fracture with increased length at lower overall costs.
Evergreen anticipates that its evaluation of the results of the drilling program will be completed in the first half of 2001. If the project is successful, the Company believes initial gas sales could begin by the end of 2001. During 2000, the Company invested approximately $7.7 million in this project and expects to invest up to an additional $11 million and plans to drill up to an additional 17 wells in 2001.
OTHER DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS
Evergreen also holds interests in two international projects located in northern Chile and the Falkland Islands. The Company is currently evaluating the hydrocarbon potential of these prospects and anticipates that it will require only modest capital expenditures through 2001. Evergreen also holds interests in northern Colorado and has completed drilling a re-entry natural gas well to a depth of 13,870 feet. The Company is continuously evaluating additional domestic properties.
On February 28, 2001, the Company acquired a 100% working interest in 605,000 acres of prospective tight gas sand properties in the Northwest Carboniferous Basin of Northern Ireland in exchange for 23,200 shares of its common stock. Evergreen plans to initiate a $2.5 million work commitment in June 2001, drilling four exploratory wells over the next 12 months. The Company has selected seven drillsites for permitting and has also identified numerous other locations for exploratory and delineation drilling.
OFFICE AND OPERATIONS FACILITIES
The Company leases its corporate offices in Denver, Colorado. The Company entered into a ten-year office lease for approximately $267,500 per year through 2008. In November 2000, the Company amended its lease to increase its office space. The increase results in lease rental of approximately $597,000 per year beginning March 2001. The Company believes the new office space will be sufficient for the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3.