ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
OPERATIONS
The Company's wholly-owned operating subsidiary, EOC, is primarily responsible for drilling, evaluation and production activities associated with various properties. As of March 15, 2000, EOC was serving as operator for approximately 274 gross producing wells owned by the Company.
The Company believes that, as operator, it is in a better position to control costs, safety, and timeliness of work as well as other critical factors affecting the economics of a well or a property, including maintaining good community relations.
EOC presently operates wells which represent 100% of Evergreen's proved reserves.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The table below sets forth the Company's quantities of proved reserves, as audited by independent petroleum engineers Netherland Sewell & Associates, Inc. and Resource Services International, Inc. All of these proved reserves were located in the continental U.S., and the present value of estimated future net revenues from these reserves on a non-escalated basis discounted at 10 percent per year as of periods indicated. There has been no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event that is believed to have caused a significant change in estimated proved reserves subsequent to December 31, 1999.
Reference should be made to Note 16 (Supplemental Oil and Gas Information) to the consolidated financial statements for additional information pertaining to the Company's proved oil and gas reserves. During fiscal 1999, the Company did not file any reports that include estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves with any federal agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission.
PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth the Company's net oil and gas production for the periods indicated.
AVERAGE SALES PRICES, LEASE OPERATING EXPENSES AND PRODUCTION TAXES
The following table sets forth the average sales price and the average lease operating expenses and production taxes per Mcfe, for the periods indicated.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1999, the number of gross and net productive oil and gas wells. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells.
ACREAGE
At December 31, 1999, Evergreen held developed and undeveloped acreage as set forth below:
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the gross and net acres subject to Colorado leases summarized in the table of undeveloped acreage.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The Company's drilling activities for the periods indicated are set forth below:
PRINCIPAL PROPERTIES
The following are brief descriptions of Evergreen's principal properties:
RATON BASIN PROPERTIES AND OPERATIONS
The Raton Basin is an onshore depositional and structural basin that is approximately 80 miles long and 50 miles wide, located in southern Colorado and northern New Mexico. The Raton Basin contains two coal bearing formations, the Vermejo formation coals located at depths of between 450 and 3,500 feet and the shallower Raton formation coals, located at depths from the surface to approximately 2,000 feet. To date, Evergreen's primary production has been from the Vermejo formation coal seams; however, Evergreen believes that the Raton formation coal seams may be profitably exploited as well.
DEVELOPMENT HISTORY AND EXPECTED FUTURE DEVELOPMENT. Exploration for coal bed methane began in the Raton Basin in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing over 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas out of the Raton Basin prevented full-scale development until January 1995, when CIG's Picketwire Lateral became operational.
Since December 1991, Evergreen has acquired oil and gas leases covering approximately 206,000 gross acres in the Raton Basin. The initial 70,000 acres were acquired from Amoco Production Company ("Amoco") in 1991 by direct purchase without overriding royalties. The majority of the acreage remaining was purchased during 1992 and 1993 from individual owners under various lease terms. Generally, the lease terms provide for a 12 1/2% royalty interest to the owner of the mineral rights. In August 1993, a four well evaluation program was conducted by the Company. Based on positive results from the initial four wells, the Company made the decision, in August 1994, to focus all domestic efforts on development of the Raton Basin. Evergreen currently has 267 net producing gas wells on its Raton Basin properties.
In March 1995, the Federal Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") designated approximately 67,000 acres of Evergreen's leases in the Raton Basin as a federal unit called the Spanish Peaks Unit. In December 1997, the BLM approved an additional 6,300 acres of leases to be included in the Spanish Peaks Unit, for a total of 73,300 acres. In January 1997, the BLM designated an additional 33,000 acres of Evergreen's leases as a federal unit called the Sangre de Cristo Unit. Additionally, in July 1998, the Company acquired a 100% working interest in 27,600 gross acres in the Cottontail Pass Federal Unit from Amoco. The Cottontail Pass Unit is situated between Evergreen's Spanish Peaks and Sangre de Cristo Units. Evergreen has been named the operator for all three of these units. Formation of a unit simplifies lease maintenance so that Evergreen, as the operator, can base development decisions within the unit on geologic, operational and cultural considerations rather than the fulfillment of lease-term obligations.
Because of the inclusion of federal leases in the unit, operation and production within a federal unit is governed by federal rules. Production from any well in the unit area will maintain all of the leases beyond their primary terms. In October 1997, the first "participating area" was designated by the BLM under the Unit Agreement. Gas production in the participating area will be pooled and shared by the royalty owners, overriding royalty owners and
working interest owners in that area in proportion to their acreage ownership of the mineral estate in the area. The participating area will be adjusted annually to encompass additional acreage as additional wells are completed.
Prior to the acquisitions of the Cottontail Pass Unit and acreage in the Long Canyon and Lorencito areas (discussed below), the Company's principal development activities in the Raton Basin had been in the Spanish Peaks Unit. The Company currently has 203 producing wells in this Unit and expects to drill approximately 49 wells there in 2000. Current production from the Spanish Peaks Unit is approximately 44 MMcf per day. The Company has identified approximately 400 drilling locations in its Spanish Peaks Unit. The Company has also drilled two exploratory wells in the northern portion of the Spanish Peaks Unit to determine the development potential for commercial production of the shallower Raton formation coals, as well as the Vermejo formation coals.
The Company's development activities in the Sangre de Cristo Unit have consisted solely of the drilling of six exploratory wells. These exploratory wells will test production levels, provide additional geologic control, and also will fulfill unit obligations. The Company expects to drill approximately 5 wells during 2000 in this Unit. No reserves from wells in the Sangre de Cristo Unit are included in the Company's reserve base.
In July 1998, Evergreen acquired approximately 100% of the working interest in 27,600 acres in Amoco's Cottontail Pass Federal Unit. The Company currently has 44 producing wells in this unit and expects to drill approximately 26 wells during 2000. Total daily production is approximately 5 MMcf per day. The Company estimates that there are approximately 80-100 additional drilling locations in this Unit.
In December 1998, the Company acquired 41,000 gross acres in the Long Canyon and Lorencito areas located in the southern Colorado portion of the Raton Basin. The Company currently has 27 gross producing wells in the Long Canyon area and expects to drill approximately 20 wells in 2000. Total daily production from the Long Canyon area is approximately 3.2 MMcf per day Evergreen has identified 160 potential drilling locations on the acreage, in which it will hold working interests of between 53% and 75%.
RATON BASIN GEOLOGY. In the Raton Basin, Evergreen produces methane almost entirely from the Vermejo coals, consisting of several individual seams ranging in thickness between 1 and 12 feet, and at drilling depths between 450 and 3,500 feet below the surface. The entire Vermejo coal interval ranges from 5 to 50 feet thick through the Raton Basin, being thickest in the center of the Basin, which the Company's acreage surrounds. The coal beds and surrounding sedimentary rocks formed during the late Cretaceous to early Tertiary period, between 65 and 40 million years ago. The Raton Basin is a highly asymmetric downward fold in the earth's crust that is approximately 80 miles long north to south and about 50 miles wide east to west. Plant material accumulated in thick layers within coastal swamps in the Raton Basin and was subsequently buried and subjected to heat and pressure which formed the coals. Since these coals were buried, continued mountain building, in combination with basin downwarping, created an extensive series of faults and fractures in the coals and surrounding rocks. Later, the area was intruded by hot liquid rock or "magma" from lower in the earth's crust, which cooled to form two large mountain structures in the center of the Raton Basin known as the Spanish Peaks. The magma moved up through existing faults and fractures and created additional fractures that radiate outward from the Spanish Peaks. As the magma cooled, its heat altered the surrounding rocks, including the Vermejo and Raton coal beds. The Company believes that the simultaneous downwarping of the Raton trough and Larimide age mountain building with subsequent relaxation (extension) and the subsequent magmatic intrusions into the Raton Basin have matured the coals and enhanced the ability of the Vermejo and Raton coals to yield coal bed methane gas.
In the Raton Basin, the Company has found some coal seams to be continuous between wells over distances of several miles, though the thickness of these beds are variable. Individual wells are often completed to produce gas from 5 to 15 individual coal beds with individual thickness between 1 and 12 feet.
COAL BED METHANE VERSUS TRADITIONAL NATURAL GAS
Methane is the primary commercial component of the natural gas stream produced from traditional gas wells. Methane also exists in its natural state in coal seams. Natural gas produced from traditional wells also contains, in varying amounts, other hydrocarbons. However, the natural gas produced from coal beds generally contains only methane and, after simple water dehydration, is pipeline-quality gas.
Coal bed methane production is similar to traditional natural gas production in terms of the physical producing facilities and the product produced. However, the subsurface mechanisms that allow the gas to move to the wellbore
and the producing characteristics of coal bed methane wells are very different from traditional natural gas production. Unlike conventional gas wells, which require a porous and permeable reservoir, hydrocarbon migration and a natural structural or stratigraphic trap, the coal bed methane gas is trapped in the molecular structure of the coal itself until released by pressure changes resulting from the removal of insitu water.
Methane is a common component of coal since methane is created as part of the coalification process, though coals vary in their methane content per ton. In addition to being in open spaces in the coal structure, methane is absorbed onto the inner coal surfaces. When the coal is hydraulically fracture stimulated and exposed to lower pressures through the de-watering process, the gas leaves (desorbs from) the coal. Whether a coal bed will produce commercial quantities of methane gas depends on the coal quality, its original content of gas per ton of coal, the thickness of the coal beds, the reservoir pressure and the existence of natural fractures (permeability) through which the released gas can flow to the wellbore. Frequently, coal beds are partly or completely saturated with water. As the water is produced, internal pressures on the coal are decreased, allowing the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Contrary to traditional gas wells, new coal bed methane wells often produce water for several months and then, as the water production decreases, natural gas production increases because the coal seams are being de-watered and the resultant pressure on the coal decreases.
In order to establish commercial gas production rates, a permanent conduit between the individual coal seams and the wellbore must be created. This is accomplished by hydraulically creating and propping open with special quality sand, artificial fractures within the coal seams (known as "fracing" in the industry) so the pathway for gas migration to the wellbore is enhanced. These fractures are filled (propped) with uniformed sized sand and become the conduits for methane to reach the well. The ability of gas to move through the coal or rocks to the wellbore from its place of origination in the formation is the key determinant of the rate at which a well will produce.
COAL BED METHANE TECHNOLOGY. The Company, working in conjunction with its contractors, has developed what it believes to be effective procedures for fracing the Vermejo and Raton coals in its Raton Basin wells. In addition, the Company has developed well completion and specialized drilling techniques that are suited to its Raton Basin wells. Traditional gas wells are drilled with the use of rotary drill bits cooled and lubricated by drilling fluids or "mud." Coal bed methane production is particularly sensitive to the natural permeability of the coals. Exposing the Raton Basin coals to drilling mud appears to significantly reduce the permeability of the coals by plugging the cleat system and natural fractures in the coals. The Company, therefore, uses percussion air drilling (similar to a jackhammer) without traditional drilling muds in drilling its wells.
WATER PRODUCTION AND DISPOSAL. To date, the majority of the water produced from the Company's Raton Basin coal seams has been low in total dissolved solids, allowing the Company, operating under permits issued by the State of Colorado, to discharge the water into well-site pits and off well-site evaporation ponds. If more brackish water is encountered in subsequent wells, it may be necessary to drill specialized injection wells to re-inject the produced water back into the underground rock formations. See "Business- Certain Risks- The Company may face unanticipated water disposal costs".
RATON BASIN PRODUCTION. Evergreen's natural gas sales from the Raton Basin did not commence until the completion of a pipeline system in January 1995, which connected the Company's Raton Basin wells to the CIG pipelines. From January 1995 through December 1999, Evergreen sold an aggregate of approximately 32.2 Bcf of coal bed methane gas from the Raton Basin. Gross daily production from the field currently exceeds 54 MMcf per day. Because of the importance of removing water from the coal seams to enhance gas production, Evergreen expects to continue production from more modest wells because of the beneficial ambient effect of pressure reduction in adjacent, more productive wells. Each well creates its own "cone of depression" in the water saturation around the wellbore. The Company believes that some of its Raton Basin wells on adjacent 160-acre drill sites have already created overlapping cones of depression, enhancing gas production in each well.
The Raton Basin gas does not contain significant amounts of contaminants, such as hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide or nitrogen, that are sometimes present in traditional natural gas production. Therefore, the properties of the Raton Basin gas, such as heat content per unit volume (Btu), are very close to the average properties of pipeline gas from conventional gas wells.
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTIES AND OPERATIONS
UNITED KINGDOM. In 1991 and 1992, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Evergreen Resources (U.K.) Ltd. ("ERUK"), was awarded seven onshore United Kingdom hydrocarbon exploration licenses for the development of coal bed methane gas and conventional hydrocarbons (the "Original Licenses"). The Original Licenses provided ERUK with the largest onshore acreage position in the United Kingdom, covering substantially all of six distinct onshore United Kingdom basins.
Selection of the licensed areas was made after evaluating geological, geophysical, petrophysical and measured methane gas content data bases. The majority of the original data base was acquired through technology sharing agreements with British Coal Corporation, which shared relevant available data on the six basins and granted use of this data to ERUK. ERUK has augmented this data with proprietary seismic and coal bed methane well data and also geologic data from the British Geologic Survey, and other sources.
During the period from 1992 to 1994, Evergreen conducted seismic work and drilled three wells under two of the Original Licenses. The wells encountered 30 feet to 80 feet of gross coal. Two of the wells were hydraulically fracture stimulated and one was tested for permeability. Following extensive production testing, none of the three wells produced gas in economic quantities. The three wells are presently shut-in.
In 1997, under a new onshore licensing regime implemented by the U.K. Department of Trade and Industry, Evergreen converted its Original Licenses to new onshore licenses, called Petroleum Exploration and Development Licenses (the "Licenses"). In connection with such conversion, the Company relinquished rights to approximately 259,000 acres, which were not considered highly prospective for coal bed methane development. Under the Licenses, the Company retains approximately 513,000 acres, which were high-graded for coal bed methane and conventional hydrocarbon potential. The Licenses provide up to a 30-year term with optional periodic relinquishment of portions of the Licenses, subject to future development plans. There are no royalties or burdens encumbering these Licenses. Work commitments for acreage retained will include the drilling of five wells in 2000.
Evergreen believes that a major coal bed methane resource exists within the areas subject to the Current Licenses. However, further evaluation will be required to confirm such belief and determine the economic viability of extracting any reserves. Evaluation is expected to occur on a License-by-License basis, since success or lack of success on one License may not be translated to similar results on other Licenses or separate geologic basins. Evergreen will spend approximately $8 million to $9 million in 2000 to drill 5 conventional coal bed methane wells and 7 interaction and gob gas wells and to maintain the Licenses.
The Company plans to initially drill approximately 5 conventional coal bed methane wells starting in late April 2000. The drilling and completion of the wells will take approximately 3-4 months. Initially, Evergreen was seeking a partner prior to initiating the drilling of the 5 well coal bed methane pilot program. The Company, however, will complete the initial development drilling using its own financial resources. The Company is currently in negotiations with various entities to provide for the development of marketing, transmission and sales of the natural gas.
FALKLAND ISLANDS. In October 1998, the Falkland Islands consortium, in which Evergreen has a net 2% interest, finished drilling its second well. The two wells on Tranche A have established good source rocks seal and potential reservoir rocks.
The consortium is in the process of assigning the license interests and operatorship to AEL, in which Evergreen owns a 40% interest and has requested a consent from the appropriate government authority. Upon approval of the assignments Evergreen's ownership in the project will increase from 2% to 40%. AEL is currently evaluating data from all wells drilled to determine the future strategy for the acreage. AEL has extended the license fees through 2000 and has no further work obligations through 2001. The total estimated costs for the program over the next two years is approximately $120,000.
CHILE. In March 1997, the Government of Chile awarded an oil and gas exploration license to Evergreen on two 5,000 square kilometer (each are approximately 1.2 million gross acres) blocks in northern Chile. Evergreen has a 75% working interest in the blocks and will serve as operator. ENAP, the Chilean government-owned energy company, holds the remaining 25% working interest. The Chilean government will initially receive a 10% royalty on production up to 10,000 barrels per day, which increases up to a maximum of 35% on production in excess of 100,000 barrels per day.
Evergreen and ENAP will share work commitments proportionately for the periods of time stated as Exploration Periods for each block as set forth in the table below:
Evergreen and ENAP may relinquish up to 100% of the blocks at the end of each exploration period. If the blocks go into production, the contracts will last 35 years.
As part of the work commitment for exploration period 2, a proprietary 2D seismic program was completed before year end. The data is being processed and analyzed. Upon completion, Evergreen will notify the Ministry of Mining as to its intent to drill an exploratory well on each block.
OFFICE AND OPERATIONS FACILITIES
The Company leases its corporate offices in Denver, Colorado. Effective May 1, 1998, the Company entered into a new ten- year office lease for approximately $267,500 per year. The Company believes the new office space will be sufficient for the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3.