ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Operations
The Company's wholly-owned operating subsidiary, EOC, is primarily responsible for drilling, evaluation and production activities associated with various properties. As of February 15, 2002, EOC was serving as operator for approximately 725 gross producing wells owned by the Company.
The Company believes that, as operator, it is in a better position to control costs, safety and timeliness of work as well as other critical factors affecting the economics of a well or a property, including maintaining good community relations.
EOC presently operates wells which represent 100% of Evergreen's proved reserves.
Natural Gas Reserves
The table below sets forth the Company's quantities of proved reserves, as audited as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 by independent petroleum engineers Netherland Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSAI"). For the year ended December 31, 1999, the proved reserves were audited by both NSAI and Resource Services International, Inc. All proved reserves are located in the continental U.S., and the present value of estimated future net revenues from these reserves was calculated on a non-escalated price basis discounted at 10 percent per year as of periods indicated. There has been no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event that is believed to have caused a significant change in estimated proved reserves subsequent to December 31, 2001.
Reference should be made to Note 15 (Supplemental Oil and Gas Information) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information pertaining to the Company's proved oil and gas reserves. During fiscal 2001, the Company did not file any reports that included estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves with any federal agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Energy.
Sales
The following table sets forth the Company's net natural gas sales for the periods indicated.
Average Sales Prices, Lease Operating Expenses, Transportation Costs and Production Taxes
The following table sets forth the average sales price and the average lease operating expenses, transportation costs and production and property taxes per Mcf, for the periods indicated.
* Includes effects of hedging transactions
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2001, Evergreen had 713 gross and 681 net producing wells. The Company had no producing oil wells as of that date. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells.
Acreage
At December 31, 2001, Evergreen held developed and undeveloped acreage as set forth below:
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the gross and net acres subject to domestic leases summarized in the table of undeveloped acreage.
Drilling Activities
The Company's drilling activities for the periods indicated are set forth below:
Coal Bed Methane Versus Traditional Natural Gas
Methane is the primary commercial component of the natural gas stream produced from traditional gas wells. Methane also exists in its natural state in coal seams. Natural gas produced from traditional wells also contains, in varying amounts, other hydrocarbons. However, the natural gas produced from coal beds generally contains only methane and, after simple water dehydration, is pipeline-quality gas.
Coal bed methane production is similar to traditional natural gas production in terms of the physical producing facilities and the product produced. However, the subsurface mechanisms that allow the gas to move to the wellbore and the producing characteristics of coal bed methane wells differ greatly from traditional natural gas production. Unlike conventional gas wells, which require a porous and permeable reservoir, hydrocarbon migration and a natural structural and/or stratigraphic trap, coal bed methane gas is trapped in the molecular structure of the coal itself until released by pressure changes resulting from the removal of in situ water or natural gas in the micropore system.
Methane is created as part of the coalification process, though coals vary in their methane content per ton. In addition to residing in open spaces in the coal structure, methane is absorbed onto the inner coal surfaces. When the coal is hydraulically fracture stimulated and exposed to lower pressures through the de-watering process, the gas leaves (desorbs from) the coal. Whether a coal bed will produce commercial quantities of methane gas depends on the coal quality, its original content of gas per ton of coal, the thickness of the coal beds, the reservoir pressure and the existence of natural fractures and cleating (permeability) through which the released gas can flow to the wellbore. Frequently, coal beds are partly or completely saturated with water. As the water is produced, internal pressures on the coal are decreased, allowing the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Unlike traditional gas wells, new coal bed methane wells often produce water for several months and then, as the water production decreases, natural gas production increases as the coal seams de-water.
In order to establish commercial gas production rates, a permanent conduit between the individual coal seams and the wellbore must be created. This is accomplished by hydraulically creating, and propping open with special quality sand, artificial fractures within the coal seams (known as "fracing" in the industry) so the pathway for water and gas migration to the wellbore is enhanced. These fractures are filled (propped) with uniform sized sand and become the enhanced conduits for water and methane to reach the well. The ability of gas to move through the coal to the wellbore is the key determinant of the rate at which a well will produce.
Raton Basin Properties and Operations
The Raton Basin is approximately 80 miles long and 50 miles wide, located in southern Colorado and northern New Mexico. The Raton Basin contains two coal bearing formations, the Vermejo formation coals located at depths of between 450 and 4,000 feet and the shallower Raton formation coals, located at depths from the surface to approximately 3,000 feet. To date, the majority of Evergreen's production has been from the Vermejo formation coals; however, the Raton formation coal seams and interbedded sandstones are now being successfully developed as well.
Development History
Exploration for coal bed methane began in the Raton Basin in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing over 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas out of the Raton Basin prevented full-scale development until January 1995, when CIG constructed the Picketwire Lateral.
Since December 1991, the Company has acquired oil and gas leases covering approximately 274,000 gross acres in the Raton Basin. The initial 70,000 acres were acquired in 1991 with additional acreage purchased from individual owners under various lease terms. Additional acreage positions and production have been increased by purchases in July 1998 and December 1998 and as discussed below.
Effective September 1, 2000, the Company acquired approximately 24,000 gross acres of producing coal bed methane properties in the Raton Basin for $181.5 million from an affiliate of KLT Gas, Inc., which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Kansas City Power & Light Company. The purchase was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. At closing, Evergreen paid total consideration of $176 million, consisting of approximately $70 million in cash, $100 million in mandatory redeemable preferred stock and 201,748 shares of common stock valued at $6 million. In addition to the consideration paid at the closing of the acquisition, on January 5, 2001, the Company delivered 116,009 additional shares of common stock valued at $4 million, under the terms of the acquisition agreement, because the average of the monthly settle prices for the 2001 NYMEX natural gas contracts exceeded $4.465 per MMBtu. Also, as additional purchase consideration, Evergreen paid monthly net profits interest payments and recorded various other post closing adjustments of $1.5 million. Evergreen redeemed the mandatory redeemable preferred stock on December 22, 2000 using new borrowings under its credit facility. The preferred stock earned dividends from September 1, 2000 through December 22, 2000 of $2,929,000, reflecting an annual rate of 9.5%.
Effective June 1, 2001, Evergreen purchased an additional 35% ownership interest in Lorencito Gas Gathering Company, LLC, or LGG, and an additional 35% working interest in approximately 17,800 acres of producing coal bed methane properties in the Lorencito Canyon region of the Raton Basin for approximately $20 million. As a result of the purchase, Evergreen now owns 85% of LGG and an 80% working interest in the Lorencito properties. The acquired property interests represented an estimated 40 Bcf of proven net gas reserves at the time of acquisition. Approximately 63% of the reserves acquired were classified as proved developed with the remaining 37% classified as proved undeveloped. All of the estimated reserves were assigned to the Vermejo and Raton group of coals.
Currently, Evergreen has a 100% working interest in three federal units, the Spanish Peaks Unit, the Cottontail Pass Unit and the Sangre de Cristo Unit. The total gross acreage in the federal units is approximately 134,000 acres. The Company is the named the operator for all three of these units. Formation of a unit simplifies lease maintenance so that the Company, as the operator, can base development decisions within the unit on technical, geologic and geophysical data and operational and cultural considerations rather than on the fulfillment of lease term obligations.
Because of the inclusion of federal leases in the unit, administration within a federal unit is governed by federal rules. Production from any well in the unit area will maintain all of the leases beyond their primary terms. In October 1997, the first "participating area" was designated by the federal Bureau of Land Management under the Unit Agreement. Gas production in the participating area will be pooled and shared by the royalty owners, overriding royalty owners and working interest owners in that area in proportion to their acreage ownership of the mineral estate in the area. The participating area will be adjusted annually to encompass additional acreage as additional wells are completed.
Evergreen also has working interests of between 75% and 100% in areas adjacent to the federal units, which include the Long Canyon and Lorencito areas and the Primero, Rita, Sarcillo and Weston tracts. These areas comprise approximately 140,000 acres.
Raton Basin Geology
In the Raton Basin, Evergreen produces methane almost entirely from the Vermejo coals, consisting of several individual seams ranging in thickness between 1 and 12 feet, and at drilling depths between 450 and 4,000 feet below the surface. The Vermejo total coal thickness ranges from 5 to 50 feet thick throughout the Raton Basin. It is thickest in the center of the Basin, which the Company's acreage surrounds. The coal beds and interbedded sedimentary rocks formed during the late Cretaceous to early Tertiary period, between 65 and 40 million years ago. The Raton Basin is a highly asymmetric downward fold in the earth's crust that is approximately 80 miles long north to south and about 50 miles wide east to west. Organic material accumulated in thick layers within coastal swamps in the Raton Basin and was subsequently buried and subjected to heat and pressure, which formed the coals. Since these coals were buried, continued mountain building, in combination with basin downwarping, created an extensive series of faults and fractures in the coals and surrounding rocks. Later, the area was intruded by hot liquid rock or "magma" from lower in the earth's crust, which cooled to form two large present day mountain structures in the center of the Raton Basin known as the Spanish Peaks. The magma moved up through existing faults and fractures and created additional fractures that radiate outward from the Spanish Peaks. As the magma cooled, its heat altered the surrounding rocks, including the Vermejo and Raton coal beds. Evergreen believes that the simultaneous downwarping of the Raton trough and Larimide age mountain building with subsequent relaxation (extension) and the additional heating provided by magmatic activity in the Raton Basin have matured the coals and enhanced the ability of the Vermejo and Raton coals to yield coal bed methane gas.
In the Raton Basin, Evergreen has found some coal seams to be continuous between wells over distances of several miles, though the thickness of these beds are variable. Individual wells are often completed to produce gas from 5 to 15 individual coal beds with individual thickness between 1 and 12 feet.
Coal Bed Methane Technology
The Company has developed what management believes to be effective procedures for fracing the Vermejo and Raton coals in its Raton Basin wells. In addition, the Company has developed well completion and specialized drilling techniques that are suited to the Raton Basin. Traditional gas wells
are drilled with the use of rotary drill bits cooled and lubricated by drilling fluids or "mud." Coal bed methane production is particularly sensitive to the natural permeability of the coals. Exposing the Raton Basin coals to drilling mud appears to significantly reduce the permeability of the coals by plugging the coal cleat system and natural fractures in the coals. Therefore, Evergreen uses percussion air drilling (similar to a jackhammer) without traditional drilling muds in drilling its wells. The Company is continually working to improve and enhance its technology expertise.
Water Production and Disposal
Based on the Company's experience in coal bed methane production in the Raton Basin and extensive laboratory analysis of water samples taken from its coal bed methane wells, management believes that the groundwater produced from the Raton Basin coal seams will not exceed permit levels and will be suitable for discharge into arroyos, surface water, well-site pits or evaporation ponds pursuant to permits obtained from the State of Colorado. Recent gas analyses confirm that the gas stream is 99% pure methane and lacks other hydrocarbon sources of contamination. In some cases the water is of such quality that it can be discharged to arroyos and surface water under general water discharge permits issued to the Company by the State of Colorado. These permits give Evergreen the flexibility to add water discharge points on an as-needed basis with minimal administrative paperwork and within 30 days or less of application. Evergreen has in excess of 300 approved discharge points and has received an increase in the total volume of water permitted for surface discharge. Approval of these requests is uncertain and is dependent upon completion of additional study by the State of Colorado. Additionally, the Company contracts with an independent water sampling company that collects the water samples and monitors all the Company's water management program. These monitoring costs are directly related to the number of well-site pits, evaporation ponds and discharge points. Because it originates in a natural groundwater system, there is some uncertainty whether water currently being discharged to streams and arroyos will continue to meet permit standards for total iron and suspended solids. Water not meeting these discharge standards can be disposed of in well-site pits and evaporation ponds.
When water of lesser quality is discovered or Evergreen's wells produce water in excess of the applicable permit limits, the Company may have to drill additional disposal wells to re-inject the produced water into deeper sandstone horizons. This would also have to be accomplished through an appropriately issued permit that has been routinely approved in the past.
Raton Basin Production
Evergreen's natural gas sales from the Raton Basin did not commence until the completion of a pipeline system in January 1995, which connected its Raton Basin wells to the CIG pipelines. From January 1995 through December 2001, the Company sold an aggregate of approximately 82.5 Bcf of coal bed methane gas from the Raton Basin. Evergreen's net daily gas sales are currently averaging approximately 97.5 MMcf per day. Because of the importance of removing water from the coal seams to enhance gas production, the Company expects to continue production from more modest wells because of the beneficial ambient effect of pressure reduction in adjacent, more productive wells. Each well creates its own "cone of depression" around the wellbore. The Company believes that some of its Raton Basin wells on adjacent 160-acre sites have already created overlapping cones of depression, enhancing gas production in each well within this pattern. In some cases this pattern of interference can be enhanced by drilling a fifth well in the 640-acre section.
Raton Basin gas contains insignificant amounts of contaminants, such as hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide or nitrogen, that are sometimes present in conventional natural gas production. Therefore, the properties of Raton Basin gas, such as heat content per unit volume (Btu), are close to the average properties of pipeline gas from conventional gas wells.
United Kingdom
In 1991 and 1992, Evergreen's wholly-owned subsidiary, Evergreen Resources (U.K.) Ltd. ("ERUK"), was awarded seven onshore United Kingdom hydrocarbon exploration licenses for the development of coal bed methane gas and conventional hydrocarbons. These original licenses provided ERUK with the largest onshore acreage position in the U.K.
Selection of the licensed areas was made after evaluating geological, geophysical, petrophysical and measured methane gas content databases. The majority of the original database was acquired through technology sharing agreements with British Coal Corporation, which shared relevant available data on the six basins and granted use of this data to ERUK. ERUK has augmented this data with proprietary seismic and coal bed methane well data and also geologic data from the British Geologic Survey, and other sources.
During the period from 1992 to 1994, Evergreen conducted seismic work and drilled three wells under two of the original licenses. The wells encountered 30 feet to 80 feet of gross coal intervals. Two of the wells were hydraulically fracture stimulated and one was tested for permeability. Following extensive production testing, none of the three wells produced gas in economic quantities. The three wells are presently shut-in.
In 1997, under a new onshore licensing regime implemented by the U.K. Department of Trade and Industry, the Company converted its original licenses to new onshore licenses, called Petroleum Exploration and Development Licenses. Under these new licenses, the Company retains approximately 452,000 acres, which were high-graded for coal bed methane and conventional hydrocarbon potential. These licenses provide up to a 30-year term with optional periodic relinquishment of portions of the licenses, subject to future development plans. There are no royalties or burdens encumbering these licenses.
Management believes that a major coal bed methane resource exists within the areas subject to the current licenses. However, further evaluation will be required to confirm this belief and determine the economic viability of extracting any reserves. Evaluation is expected to occur on a license-by-license basis because success or lack of success on one license may not be translated to similar results on other licenses or separate geologic basins.
In April 2000, the Company began drilling activities on its coal bed methane gas project in the U.K. A total of nine wells were drilled during 2000, of which five were coal bed methane wells, three were mine-gas interaction wells and one was a gob gas well. Total well depth of the coal bed methane and interaction wells ranged from 2,213 feet to 3,960 feet for coal bed methane wells and 1,485 feet to 2,156 feet for the mine-gas interaction wells. Total coal thickness ranged from 75 feet to 97 feet of coal. The gob gas well has a total depth of 879 feet from an approximate six foot gob thickness. During 2000, the Company fracture stimulated the five coal bed methane wells using its own pumping equipment in conjunction with a new completion technology utilizing "coiled tubing." Evergreen believes this is the first time that nitrified foam fracs using coiled tubing technology have been used in the U.K. Coiled tubing completions isolate individual coal seams that are to be fraced versus fracing a group of coals using current technology. Coiled tubing also provides for a better in-zone propped fracture with increased length at lower overall costs.
The Company experienced delays in its proposed 2001 drilling program throughout 2001 due to the regulatory environment, which included required approvals from local planning commissions for drilling permits, and was consequently unable to complete its anticipated drilling program for 2001. Drilling operations on the first of four planned gob gas wells expected to be drilled in 2002 on Evergreen's United Kingdom coal bed methane acreage began February 5, 2002. The Company expects to obtain planning permission for the remaining three gob gas wells which are expected to be drilled before the end of the second quarter of 2002. Additionally, the Company intends to fracture stimulate
three existing mine gas interaction wells in the United Kingdom late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2002.
Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland
In March and April 2001, the Company acquired 100% working interest in 1,085,000 acres of prospective tight gas sand properties in Northern Ireland (605,000 acres) and in the Republic of Ireland (480,000 acres) for total consideration of $1,250,000 (23,200 shares of Evergreen common stock valued at $750,000 and $500,000 in cash) plus a small retained net profits interest. Evergreen has drilled four wells in Northern Ireland and two wells in the Republic of Ireland to depths ranging from approximately 2,700 feet to 4,400 feet. Evergreen is in the process of completing five of these six wells. Three wells have been fracture stimulated to date. The first well took nine stages and 358,000 lbs. of sand, while the second well was completed in six stages with 455,500 lbs. of sand and the third well completed in one stage and 66,000 lbs. of sand. All five wells are expected to be completed by the end of April 2002. After completion of each of the wells, the Company will start bottom hole pressure and flowback tests for 35 to 45 days.
Other Domestic and International Projects
Evergreen holds a 100% working interest in approximately 64,000 acres of prospective coal bed methane properties in Alaska and exploratory acreage in northern Colorado. During 2002, the Company expects to drill up to 10 wells in the Pioneer Unit on its Alaska acreage. The Company continues to evaluate additional domestic properties. Evergreen also holds interests in two international projects located in northern Chile and the Falkland Islands. The Company is currently evaluating the hydrocarbon potential of these prospects and anticipates that they will require only modest capital expenditures through 2002.
Office and Operations Facilities
The Company leases its corporate offices in Denver, Colorado. The Company has an office lease for approximately $620,000 per year through 2008. The Company believes its office space will be sufficient for the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3.