ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Evergreen's principal estimated proved reserves and producing properties are located in the Raton Basin in southern Colorado, substantially all of which are operated by the Company. Evergreen also has estimated proved reserves and producing properties in the Piceance Basin in western Colorado, the Uintah Basin in eastern Utah, and the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin. In addition, Evergreen holds undeveloped acreage in the Forest City Basin in eastern Kansas and in the Cook Inlet-Susitna Basin in Alaska. The following table sets forth the Company's estimated proved reserves and the associated pre-tax net present value of estimated proved reserves discounted at 10%.
(1)Before future income taxes; assumes weighted average year-end spot price of $5.49 per Mcfe. Raton Basin Operations
The Raton Basin covers an area that is approximately 80 miles long, north to south, and about 50 miles wide, east to west, encompassing southeastern Colorado and northeastern New Mexico. The Raton Basin contains two coal-bearing formations, the Vermejo formation coals located at depths of between 450 and 4,000 feet and the shallower Raton formation coals, located at the surface to approximately 3,000 feet in depth. Production from the Vermejo coals represents approximately 79% of the total production from the Raton Basin and approximately 78% of the total proved reserves in the Raton Basin. To date, the majority of Evergreen's production has been from the Vermejo formation coals; however, the Company is now successfully developing Raton formation coal seams and interbedded sandstones as well.
Development History
Exploration for coal bed methane in the Raton Basin began in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing more than 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas from the Raton Basin prevented full-scale development until January 1995, when Colorado Interstate Gas Company completed the construction of the Picketwire Lateral.
Since December 1991, the Company has acquired oil and gas leases covering approximately 385,000 gross acres in the Raton Basin. The initial 70,000 acres were acquired in 1991, and additional acreage was purchased from individual owners under various lease terms. The Company has also increased its acreage positions and production through several acquisitions beginning in 1998 through 2001.
Evergreen has a 100% working interest in three federal units, the Spanish Peaks Unit, the Cottontail Pass Unit and the Sangre de Cristo Unit. The total gross acreage in the federal units is approximately 138,000 acres. The Company is the named operator for all of these units. Formation of a unit simplifies lease maintenance so that the Company, as the operator, can base development decisions within the unit on technical, geologic and geophysical data and operational and cultural considerations rather than on the fulfillment of lease term obligations.
Because of the inclusion of federal leases in the unit, administration within a federal unit is governed by federal rules. Production from any well in the unit area will maintain all of the leases beyond their primary terms. In October 1997, the first "participating area" was designated by the Bureau of Land Management under the Unit Agreement. Gas production in the participating area is pooled and shared by the royalty owners, overriding royalty owners and working interest owners in that area in proportion to their acreage ownership of the mineral estate in the area. The participating area is adjusted annually to encompass additional acreage as additional wells are completed.
Evergreen also has working interests of between 75% and 100% in areas adjacent to the federal units, which comprise approximately 247,000 gross acres.
Raton Basin Geology
Evergreen produces coal bed methane from the high quality bituminous coal resource of the Raton Basin. The basin is a large asymmetric sedimentary trough that developed along the western margin of an ancient Rocky Mountain seaway during the Cretaceous and Tertiary period between 65 to 45 million years ago. Today, the geologic history of what was once a lush tropical coastline and alluvial plain cut by meandering rivers, which subsequently underwent deep burial, tectonism, igneous intrusion, and uplift, is recorded in the rocks of the region; the continued exploration of the basin by Company geologists is increasing the understanding of the coal bed methane resource base and identifying new hydrocarbon systems and additional unconventional reservoir types.
The Company's current acreage sits squarely in the middle of the basin and contains some of the thickest documented net coal packages in the region. The coal-bearing strata are located primarily in two major groups, the Vermejo and Raton formations, and represent coal development in two slightly contrasting environments. The Vermejo coals represent peat accumulation on an expansive flat-lying flood-plain which was partially protected from erosion by sandy coastal barriers of the underlying Trinidad Sandstone, while the Raton coals represent peat development on a broad, open, humid alluvial fan. Collectively, both formations reflect the development of substantial peat swamps and thick boggy mires, which covered most of the region during Cretaceous and Tertiary times. Subsequent burial under high pressures and temperatures has caused the original peat accumulation to convert into coal, which has high rank and consequentially high gas storage capacity. During burial, small fractured surfaces (cleats) developed throughout the coal, which, coupled with the tectonic forces acting on the region during the building of the Rocky Mountains, has provided significant permeability within the coals, allowing for the extraction of coal bed methane gas and associated water.
The Company produces methane from wells that are generally completed in the laterally continuous Vermejo coals. Individual Vermejo coal seams can be readily traced over several miles, commonly from well to well. Total net Vermejo coal thickness can locally approach 35 feet in five to 15 individual seams, which may vary in thickness from one to 10 feet.
The shallower Raton formation coals are generally less continuous from well to well, but increasingly represent a very significant resource throughout the basin. Total net Raton coal thickness locally approaches 90 feet in 10 to 25 individual seams, which may vary in thickness from one to 15 feet. Commonly interbedded with the Raton coals are large sandstone channel complexes, which are increasingly identified as additional potential tight-gas and unconventional sand reservoirs.
Coal Bed Methane Versus Traditional Natural Gas
Methane is the primary commercial component of the natural gas stream produced from traditional gas wells. Methane also exists in its natural state in coal seams. Natural gas produced from traditional wells also contains, in varying amounts, other hydrocarbons. However, the natural gas produced from coal beds generally contains only methane and, after simple dehydration, becomes pipeline-quality gas.
Coal bed methane production is similar to traditional natural gas production in terms of the physical producing facilities and the product produced. However, the subsurface mechanisms that allow the gas to move to the wellbore and the producing characteristics of coal bed methane wells differ greatly from traditional natural gas production. Unlike conventional gas wells, which require a porous and permeable reservoir, hydrocarbon migration and a natural structural and/or stratigraphic trap, coal bed methane gas is trapped in the molecular structure of the coal itself until released by pressure changes resulting from the removal of in situ water or natural gas in the micropore system.
Methane is created as part of the coalification process, though coals vary in their methane content per ton. In addition to residing in open spaces in the coal structure, methane is absorbed onto the inner coal surfaces. When the coal is hydraulically fracture stimulated and exposed to lower pressures through the de-watering process, the gas is released from (desorbs from) the coal. Whether a coal bed will produce commercial quantities of methane gas depends on the coal quality, its original content of gas per ton of coal, the thickness of the coal beds, the reservoir pressure, the rate at which gas is released from the coal (diffusivity) and the existence of natural fractures and cleating (permeability) through which the released gas can flow to the wellbore. Frequently, coal beds are partly or completely saturated with water. As the water is produced, internal pressures on the coal are decreased, allowing the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Unlike traditional gas wells, new coal bed methane wells often produce water for several months and then, as the water production decreases, natural gas production increases as the coal seams de-water.
In order to establish commercial gas production rates, a permanent conduit between the individual coal seams and the wellbore must be created. This is accomplished by hydraulically creating, and propping open with special quality sand, artificial fractures within the coal seams (known as "fracing" in the industry) so the pathway for water and gas migration to the wellbore is enhanced. These fractures are filled (propped) with uniform sized sand and become the enhanced conduits for water and methane to reach the well. The rate at which the gas is released from the coal and the ability of gas to move through the coal to the wellbore are the key determinants of the rate at which a well will produce.
Deep Fractured Shales, Raton Conglomerate and Sandstone Reservoirs
In 2002, the Company embarked on a series of detailed geological studies and drilled exploratory wells aimed at evaluating additional unconventional reservoir systems throughout the Raton Basin. These ongoing studies have focused efforts on gas-charged sandstones and conglomerates interbedded within the currently producing Vermejo and Raton formation coals and deeper gas-bearing shales, which underlie the entire region.
The conglomerate and sandstones currently being identified (and actively produced in several parts of the Company's acreage), reflect stacked large scale meandering river channel complexes and regional sandy braided alluvial fans that at one time crosscut the Cretaceous-Tertiary peat swamps. During burial, excess gas generated during the coalification process locally became trapped within the pore spaces of these sandstones and now form "Tight-Gas Sand" reservoirs. The increasing recognition of the orientation in the subsurface of such ancient drainage system is allowing the strategic sighting of wells in specific sand prone areas, which may ultimately increase the region's total resource base.
The Raton Basin shales, termed the Niobrara and Pierre Shale formations, are approximately 3,000-feet thick and underlie the currently producing intervals. The shales collectively reflect deposits of blanket-like organic rich mudstones, which accumulated in quiet water condition on the sea floor. Deeper exploratory test wells (2,000 to 6,000 feet) aimed at identifying areas of enhanced fracture permeability may ultimately lead to the development of a significant "Shale Gas" resource.
Coal Bed Methane Technology
Thin multi-layer coal bed methane and unconventional tight-gas reservoirs create a multitude of challenges for drilling, reservoir and production engineers, including the challenge of minimizing formation damage and then isolating and completing individual zones in order to maximize recovery of the resource in place. Management believes that the Company has developed highly effective procedures for drilling and completing such reservoirs.
Damage to the Raton Basin coals from conventional drilling mud systems invading the cleat fracture surfaces and reducing their permeability has been mitigated by utilizing specialized air-drilling techniques using percussion air-hammers.
All coals in the Raton Basin require hydraulic fracture stimulation to attain economic production rates. Through its wholly owned subsidiary, Evergreen Well Service Company, the Company has developed technology that the Company believes is at the leading edge of coal bed methane well completions. The new technology uses proprietary high quality nitrogen foamed fluids as the fracturing media and the industry's first "built-for-purpose" 27/8-inch diameter coiled tubing fracturing units to selectively place proppant in individual seams. The Company believes that this fracturing technology demonstrates its commitment to the continued role that technology innovation will play in developing some of the region's resources.
Water Production and Disposal
Based on the Company's experience in coal bed methane production in the Raton Basin and extensive laboratory analysis of water samples taken from its coal bed methane wells, management believes that the groundwater produced from the Raton Basin coal seams will not exceed permit levels and will be suitable for discharge into arroyos, surface water, well-site pits or evaporation ponds pursuant to permits obtained from the State of Colorado. Recent gas analyses confirm that the gas stream is 99% pure methane and lacks other hydrocarbon sources of contamination. In some cases the water is of such quality that it can be discharged to arroyos and surface water under general water discharge permits issued to the Company by the State of Colorado. These permits give Evergreen the flexibility to add water discharge points on an as-needed basis with minimal administrative paperwork and within 30 days or less of application. Evergreen has in excess of 300 approved discharge points and has received an increase in the total volume of water permitted for surface discharge. Approval of these requests is uncertain and is dependent upon completion of additional study by the State of Colorado. Additionally, the Company contracts with an independent water sampling company that collects the water samples and monitors all the Company's water management program. These monitoring costs are directly related to the number of well-site pits, evaporation ponds and discharge points. Because it originates in a natural groundwater system, there is some uncertainty whether water currently being discharged to streams and arroyos will continue to meet permit standards for total iron and suspended solids. Water not meeting these discharge standards can be disposed of in well-site pits and evaporation ponds. When water of lesser quality is discovered or Evergreen's wells produce water in excess of the applicable permit limits, the Company may have to drill additional disposal wells to re-inject the produced water into deeper sandstone horizons. Such drilling and disposal would require the Company to obtain permits, similar to those obtained in the past.
Raton Basin Production
Evergreen's natural gas sales from the Raton Basin did not commence until the completion of a pipeline system in January 1995, which connected its Raton Basin wells to the Colorado Interstate Gas Company pipelines. From January 1995 through December 2003, the Company sold an aggregate of approximately 167 Bcf of coal bed methane gas from the Raton Basin. Because of the importance of removing water from the coal seams to enhance gas production, the Company expects to continue
production from more modest wells because of the beneficial ambient effect of pressure reduction in adjacent, more productive wells. Each well creates its own "cone of depression" around the wellbore. Evergreen believes that some of its Raton Basin wells on adjacent 160-acre sites have already created overlapping cones of depression, enhancing gas production in each well within this pattern. In some cases this pattern of interference can be enhanced by drilling a fifth and sixth well in the 640-acre section.
Raton Basin gas contains insignificant amounts of contaminants, such as hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide or nitrogen, that are sometimes present in conventional natural gas production. Therefore, the properties of Raton Basin gas, such as heat content per unit volume (British Thermal units, or "Btu"), are close to the average properties of pipeline gas from conventional gas wells.
Piceance and Uintah Basin Operations
Evergreen established its position in the Piceance and Uintah Basins through an acquisition in October 2003. Evergreen holds approximately 171,000 net acres in the aggregate in the two basins. At December 31, 2003, Evergreen had estimated net proved reserves of 65 Bcfe in these basins, 51% of which were classified as proved developed. Evergreen's current production in these basins is from reserves in tight sand and shale formations. Evergreen's net daily sales for December 2003 were averaging approximately 5 MMcfe from a total of 106 net producing wells. Evergreen operates 98% of its production in these basins and holds an average working interest of 84% across its producing properties.
Western Canada Sedimentary Basin Operations
Evergreen's position in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin was established in connection with the October 2003 acquisition. Evergreen holds approximately 101,000 net acres in this basin. At December 31, 2003, Evergreen had estimated net proved reserves of 37 Bcfe in Canada, 72% of which were classified as proved developed. Evergreen's current production in this basin is from reserves in tight sand and shale formations. Evergreen's net daily sales for December 2003 were averaging approximately 9 MMcfe from a total of 78 net producing wells. Evergreen operates 80% of its production in this basin and holds an average working interest of 63% across its producing properties.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The table below sets forth Evergreen's quantities of estimated proved reserves, as audited or prepared as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 by independent petroleum engineering consultants Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. All estimated proved reserves are located in North America, and the present value of estimated future net revenues from these reserves was calculated on a non-escalated price basis discounted at 10% per year as of the periods indicated. There has been no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event that is believed to have caused a significant change in estimated proved reserves subsequent to December 31, 2003.
(1)The weighted average year-end spot prices for the purpose of estimating Evergreen's future net revenues were $5.49, $4.22 and $2.32 per Mcfe at December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Reference should be made to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information pertaining to the Company's proved oil and gas reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company did not file any reports that included estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves with any federal agency other than the SEC and the Department of Energy.
Production
The following table sets forth the Company's net oil and natural gas sales for the periods indicated. The Company had no oil or liquids production during 2002 and 2001.
(1)Includes production volumes from the date of acquisition of Carbon for the period from October 29, 2003 through December 31, 2003.
(2)Includes the effects of hedging.
Production Costs
The following table sets forth lease operating expenses, transportation costs and production and property taxes per Mcfe, for the periods indicated.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net producing wells the Company had as of December 31, 2003.
The following table reflects the number of gross and net producing wells the Company had in the Raton Basin for each of the prior five fiscal years ended December 31.
Acreage
At December 31, 2003, Evergreen held developed and undeveloped acreage as set forth below:
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the gross and net acres subject to North American leases summarized in the table of undeveloped acreage.
Drilling Activities
The Company's drilling activities for the periods indicated are set forth below:
Office and Operations Facilities
The Company leases its corporate offices in Denver, Colorado. The lease covers approximately forty thousand square feet and expires in 2008. The Company also leases other office facilities in Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Ottawa, Kansas; Wasilla, Alaska; and Price, Utah. The Company believes its office space will be sufficient for the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3.