Item 2 "Properties."
The sole general partner of the Partnership is Host Marriott Corporation, a publicly traded Delaware corporation (referred to herein as "Host Marriott" or the "General Partner"). On December 29, 1995, Host Marriott's operations were divided into two separate companies: Host Marriott and Host Marriott Services Corporation.
The Partnership is engaged solely in the business of owning and operating hotels and, therefore, is engaged in one industry segment. The principal offices of the Partnership are located at 10400 Fernwood Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817.
The Hotels are operated as part of the Marriott full-service hotel system and are managed by Marriott International, Inc. ("MII") or subsidiaries of MII (the "Manager") under long-term management agreements. The Hotels have the right to use the Marriott name pursuant to the management agreements, and if these management agreements are terminated, the Partnership will lose that right for all purposes. See Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
The Hotels cater primarily to business travelers and meeting groups at locations in downtown, suburban areas, and near airports. The Hotels typically contain meeting space, swimming pools, gift shops, health club facilities, convention and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and lounges, and parking facilities. The Mountain Shadows Resort Hotel also has a number of additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts and access to nearby golf courses.
The Partnership's financing needs have been funded through loan agreements with independent financial institutions, Host Marriott or affiliates, and MII or affiliates. See the "Debt Financing" section below.
Organization of the Partnership
On July 16, 1982, 1,800 limited partnership interests (the "Units") in the Partnership were sold pursuant to a public offering at $10,000 per Unit. The Partnership commenced operations on July 17, 1982. The Partnership acquired by capital contribution from the General Partner five existing Hotels(including one undergoing substantial renovation), three Hotels under construction, and sites for three Hotels planned to be developed. Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner simultaneously withdrew as a return of capital $186,527,000 that was borrowed by the Partnership under its original bank loan (as discussed below). The Partnership completed the construction and renovation of the Hotels in progress and developed Hotels on each of the three development sites. At year-end 1984, the Partnership owned 11 Hotels. On January 31, 1986, the Partnership sold its 307-room Denver West Hotel to the General Partner in accordance with the provisions of its original bank loan and the terms of the Partnership Agreement. On December 17, 1993, the Raleigh Hotel was foreclosed upon, and on February 4, 1994 and March 23, 1994, the Tampa and Point Clear Hotels, respectively, were foreclosed upon. The Partnership repurchased the Raleigh Hotel on May 20, 1994 and the Tampa Hotel on July 11, 1994 using proceeds from two loans advanced from a subsidiary of Host Marriott. On August 22, 1995, the Partnership sold the Dallas Hotel to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Host Marriott. The Partnership owned eight Hotels as of December 31, 1996. See the "Debt Financing" section below.
General
The Partnership's financing needs are funded through loan agreements with (i) The Mitsui Trust and Banking Company (the "Bank Lender"), (ii) Host Marriott or affiliates, and (iii) MII or affiliates. The Partnership's debt is discussed below.
Bank Loan
On December 22, 1987, the Partnership borrowed $245 million (the "Bank Loan") from the Bank Lender for seven of the Partnership's Hotels. The Bank Loan bore interest at an effective fixed rate of 10.37% and required monthly interest-only payments through maturity. The Bank Loan matured on December 22, 1994 and was not repaid because the Partnership had insufficient funds to do so.
Host Marriott provided a $26 million debt service guaranty (the "Bank Guaranty") on the Bank Loan, and an equivalent MII " back-up" guaranty (the "MII Back-up Guaranty") must be funded by MII only if Host Marriott does not fund under its guaranty.
Restructured Bank Loan
On August 22, 1995, the General Partner and the Bank Lender completed a restructuring of the Bank Loan. The principal terms of the restructuring are as follows:
(i) Host Marriott advanced $10 million under the Bank Guaranty, which was used to pay down principal on the Bank Loan. Advances under the Bank Guaranty bear interest at an annual rate equal to the prime rate, as announced by Bankers Trust Company;
(ii) The Partnership used $44 million of proceeds from the sale of the Dallas Hotel to pay down principal on the Bank Loan;
(iii)The maturity of the Bank Loan extends to December 22, 1997, with two one-year extensions if certain debt service coverage tests are met;
(iv) Semi-annual payments of interest on the restructured loan at the six-month LIBOR plus 1.5 percentage points and annual payments of principal in the amount of $5 million during the first three years of the restructured loan and $6 million during any extension periods;
(v) Host Marriott's liability under the Bank Guaranty remains at $26 million (subject to a credit for the advance of $10 million described in (i) above);
(vi) MII continued its MII Back-up Guaranty;
(vii)Host Marriott ( but not MII) agreed to provide an additional guaranty (the "Interest Guaranty") for $12 million to cover any shortfalls in the payment of interest after application of all cash flow available for debt service (advances in respect to interest will be made first under the Interest Guaranty then under the Bank Guaranty or the MII Back- up Guaranty);
(viii)The Interest Guaranty will be reduced each year by$4 million less any Interest Guaranty advances made as of the date such reduction is scheduled to occur, and the Interest Guaranty will be increased by$4 million for each extension period, if applicable. The remaining liability under the Bank Guaranty and the MII Back-up Guaranty in any event must be at least equal to the scheduled amortization payments due during the extension period;
(ix) All Partnership cash relating to the Bank Hotels (including the Bank Hotels FF&E Reserve and the subordinated base management fees) collateralize the Bank Loan;
(x) The Bank Lender was paid a fee equal to $573,000 for the successful restructuring of the Bank Loan;
(xi) The Bank Lender required MII to terminate the management agreement related to the Bank Hotels (the "MII Management Agreement") and forgive the balances of deferred base and incentive management fees outstanding as of December 31, 1994. The Partnership recorded an extraordinary gain of $146.3 million in 1995 to recognize the gain which resulted from the forgiveness of the deferred fees. In addition, the Bank Lender required a portion of the base management fee equal to 1% of gross Bank Hotels' sales and a portion of the FF&E Reserve contribution equal to 1% of gross Bank Hotels' sales to be subordinate to the payment of debt service.
No amounts have been advanced under the Interest Guaranty. Additionally, in early 1997, in accordance with the terms of the Interest Guaranty, the amount available was reduced from $8 million to $4 million.
Pursuant to the terms of the restated Bank Loan, operating profit, as defined, from the Bank Hotels and the subordinated portion of the base management fee, equal to 1% of gross Bank Hotels' sales, in excess of debt service must be held in a collateral account with the Bank Lender. After the end of each fiscal year, excess cash remaining in the collateral account is applied as follows: (i) 50% to repay Bank Loan principal and (ii) 50% to pay interest and principal on advances under the Bank Guaranty, until the unadvanced portion of the Bank Guaranty is replenished to a balance of $20.0 million. Thereafter, excess cash in the collateral account is applied as follows: (i) 50% to repay Bank Loan principal, (ii) 25% to pay deferred base management fees to MII, and (iii) 25% to pay interest and principal on advances under the Bank Guaranty.
As of December 31, 1996, the balance of the Bank Loan was $179.8 million. As of December 31, 1996, $10.0 million, including accrued interest, was outstanding under the Bank Guaranty. On February 24, 1997, in accordance with the cash flow priorities described in the preceding paragraph, the Partnership repaid $2.2 million to Host Marriott on the Bank Guaranty and $2.2 million in principal on the Bank Loan. Therefore, as of February 24, 1997, the balance on the Bank Loan was $177.6 million and $19.4 million was available under the Bank Guaranty.
Raleigh and Tampa Loans
In 1994, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Host Marriott provided non-recourse loans to the Partnership to purchase the Raleigh and Tampa Hotels.
The non-recourse loan for the Raleigh Hotel totaled $19.4 million to cover the $18.7 million purchase price and closing costs. Under the terms of the loan, $14 million of principal ("Raleigh Note A") bears interest at a fixed rate of 10% and requires quarterly payments of interest and principal, based on a 25-year amortization schedule, with a balloon payment due at maturity on May 20,2001. The remaining principal of $5.4 million ("Raleigh Note B") bears interest at a fixed rate of 11.5% and matures on May 20, 2006. All cash flow from the Raleigh Hotel is used to pay debt service in the following order of priority: (i) interest on Raleigh Note A, (ii) principal on Raleigh Note A and (iii) interest on Raleigh Note B. All remaining cash flow is used to pay principal on Raleigh Note B. If cash flow is insufficient to pay interest on Raleigh Note B, the unpaid interest rolls into the Raleigh Note B principal balance annually. As of December 31, 1996, the Raleigh Note A principal balance was $13.5 million, and the Raleigh Note B principal balance was $4.8 million.
The non-recourse loan for the Tampa Hotel totaled $16.3 million to cover the $15.7 million purchase price and closing costs. Under the terms of the loan, $10 million of principal ("Tampa Note A") bears interest at a fixed rate of 10% and requires quarterly payments of interest and principal, based on a 25-year amortization schedule, with a balloon payment due at maturity on July 11, 2001. The remaining principal of $6.3 million ("Tampa Note B")bears interest at a fixed rate of 11.5% and matures on July 11, 2006. All cash flow from the Tampa Hotel is used to pay debt service in the following order of priority: (i) interest on Tampa Note A, (ii) principal on Tampa Note A and (iii) interest on Tampa Note B. All remaining cash flow is used to pay principal on Tampa Note B. If cash flow is insufficient to pay interest on Tampa Note B, the unpaid interest rolls into the Tampa Note B principal balance annually.As of December 31, 1996, the Tampa Note A principal balance was $9.7 million, and the Tampa Note B principal balance was $6.1 million.
Each of the Raleigh and Tampa loans are secured by a first priority lien on the building; land (the Partnership's leasehold interest in the case of the Tampa Hotel); furniture, fixtures and equipment; and working capital and supplies advanced to the Manager.
Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment Loans
Prior to 1995, the Bank Loan required Host Marriott to fund up to $30 million for furniture, fixtures and equipment ("FF&E") replacements at the Bank Hotels (the "FF&E Guaranty"). Host Marriott advanced funds (the "Host FF&E Loans") for the Bank Hotels from 1991 through 1994 pursuant to the FF&E Guaranty. The Host FF&E Loans bear interest at the prime rate and are to be repaid in annual installments over six years. As of December 31, 1996, $5.2 million was outstanding under the Host FF&E Loans. On January 3, 1997, the Partnership repaid $2.3 million of principal on the Host FF&E Loans leaving $2.9 million of principal due to Host Marriott on the Host FF&E Loans.
The Host FF&E Loans are non-recourse to the Partnership and its partners and are secured by payments due from MII under an FF&E lease. Interest payments on these loans are offset by lease payments received under the MII FF&E lease agreements. As of December 31, 1996, MII owed $2.9 million including related interest costs to the Partnership pursuant to these agreements, with the final installment due December 31, 1999.
Beginning in 1995, the Bank Hotels FF&E funding requirements are being met through a repairs and equipment reserve for the combined Bank Hotels. Since its acquisition date in 1994, the FF&E funding requirements for the Tampa Hotel have been met through a repairs and equipment reserve for the Hotel. However, the Raleigh Hotel required additional funds, as described below.
Raleigh Hotel Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment Loans
In 1995, Host Marriott and Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. ("MHSI"), a subsidiary of MII, each provided an unsecured loan to the Partnership in the amount of $350,000 ("Raleigh $350,000 FF&E Loans") to fund costs of a softgoods rooms renovation at the Raleigh Hotel in excess of amounts available in the Hotel's FF&E Reserve. Each Raleigh $350,000 FF&E Loan was fully advanced to the Partnership by January 24, 1995. The Raleigh $350,000 FF&E Loans bear interest at the prime rate. Payments on the loans are made each accounting period from a portion of the FF&E Reserve contribution equal to 1% of gross Hotel sales and are applied first to interest and then to principal. The Raleigh $350,000 FF&E Loans will be due and payable on the earlier of the termination of the Raleigh management agreement or December 31, 2005. Interest accrued in 1995 was added to the principal balance of each of the loans. As of December 31, 1996, $343,000 was due on each of the Raleigh $350,000 FF&E Loans.
In 1996, Host Marriott provided another unsecured loan to the Partnership in the amount of $700,000 ("Raleigh $700,000 FF&E Loan") to fund costs of a casegoods rooms renovation at the Raleigh Hotel in excess of the amounts available in the Raleigh Hotel's FF&E Reserve. The Raleigh $700,000 FF&E Loan was fully advanced to the Partnership by December 9, 1996. The Raleigh $700,000 FF&E Loan bears interest at the prime rate plus 0.5%. Payments on the loan are made each accounting period from a portion of the FF&E Reserve contribution equal to 1% of gross Hotel sales and are applied first to interest and then to principal. The Raleigh $700,000
FF&E Loan will be due and payable on the earlier of the termination of the Raleigh management agreement or December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 1996, $658,000 was due on the Raleigh $700,000 FF&E Loan.
Other Loans
As of December 31, 1996, the Partnership owed Host Marriott $83.9 million (excluding the Raleigh and Tampa loans and related accrued interest) including accrued interest, as follows: (i) $59.2 million related to the original Host Marriott Guaranty and the S&L Guaranty, as defined in Note 6 of the financial statements; (ii) $10.0 million related to the Bank Guaranty; (iii) $5.0 million related to working capital advances; (iv) $8.2 million for capital improvements at the Point Clear, Alabama Hotel; and (v) $1.5 million from Host Marriott's subordination of cash flow from the 66-room Raleigh addition as discussed in Note 9 to the Financial Statements.
All Partnership indebtedness, including the Bank Loan, guaranty advances, other General Partner loans, and deferred base and incentive management fees, which is outstanding upon dissolution of the Partnership must be repaid before any cash distributions to the General or Limited Partners.
Material Contracts
Bank Hotels Management Agreement
In connection with the restructuring of the Bank Loan, effective December 31, 1994, the Partnership and MII entered into a management agreement which replaced the original MII Management Agreement (the "Bank Hotels Management Agreement"). The MII Management Agreement provided for a term of 25 years from the opening date, as specified in the agreement, of each Hotel with renewal terms at the option of MII of up to an additional 50 years. The MII Management Agreement provided the Manager with a base management fee equal to 7% or 8% of the Bank Hotels' gross sales at the Bank Hotels depending upon the length of time the applicable Hotel had been open. Payment of current base management fees with respect to the Bank Hotels were subordinated to payment of debt service on the Bank Loan. Any unpaid base management fees were deferred without interest and were payable in future years. In addition, the Manager was entitled to receive incentive management fees equal to 20% of Hotel operating profits (calculated before debt service on the Bank Loan or other Partnership debt) and additional incentive fees, after certain returns to the Partnership were realized, ranging from 20% to 90% depending on the amount of operating profit and the level of return to the Partners. Through December 31, 1994, no incentive management fees had been paid since inception. As of December 31, 1994, deferred base management fees were $47.5 million and deferred incentive fees were $98.8 million. In connection with the Bank Loan restructuring in 1995, the Bank Lender required MII to terminate the MII Management Agreement and to forgive the balances of deferred base and incentive management fees outstanding as of December 31, 1994. For additional information, see Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
The Bank Hotels Management Agreement provides for a base management fee equal to 3% of the Bank Hotels' gross sales and contributions equal to 5% of the Bank Hotels' gross sales to be made to a Bank Hotels FF&E Reserve. A portion of the base management fee equal to 1% of the Bank Hotels' gross sales and a portion of the Bank Hotels FF&E Reserve contributions equal to 1% of the Bank Hotels' gross sales are subordinate to the payment of debt service on the Bank Loan. The Manager will continue to earn incentive management fees equal to 20% of Hotel operating profit (as defined, calculated before debt service on the Bank Loan) and additional incentive fees, after certain returns to the Partnership. Incentive management fees will continue to be fully subordinate to the payment of debt service and to the repayment of all guaranties. As of December 31, 1996, deferred base and incentive management fees were $2.4 million and $14.8 million, respectively. For additional information, see Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
Raleigh and Tampa Management Agreements
The Raleigh and Tampa Hotels are managed by MHSI pursuant to separate management agreements ("MHSI Agreements"). The MHSI Agreements provide for an initial term expiring on December 31, 2009. MHSI, at its option, has the right to renew the agreements for up to two successive eight-year terms. The MHSI Agreements provide for payments to MHSI of a base management fee equal to 3% of each Hotel's gross sales and an incentive management fee equal to 20% of each Hotel's operating profit. For additional information, see Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
Pursuant to the Bank Hotels Management Agreement and the MHSI Agreements, the Hotels are managed and operated as part of the Marriott full-service hotel system. The Marriott full-service hotel system consists of hotels, conference centers, resorts, and suites operated under the Marriott name. At December 31, 1996, the Marriott full-service hotel system included 316 Marriott hotels, conference centers, resorts, and suite hotels located in 40 states, the District of Columbia, and 26 foreign countries with a total of 120,787 guest rooms.
Ground Leases
The Partnership leases the land on which the Albuquerque, Greensboro, Houston, Miami, and Tampa Hotels are located from unrelated parties. For a description of the terms of the ground leases, see Item 2 "Properties."
Competition
Demand in the U.S. lodging industry continues to be strong as a result of an improved economic environment and a corresponding increase in domestic business and leisure travel. Also, the full-service hotel segment has benefited from a significant decrease in the room supply growth rate, which is attributable to several factors including the limited availability of attractive building sites for full-service hotels and the lack of available financing for new full-service hotel construction. The cyclical nature of the U.S. lodging industry has been demonstrated over the past two decades. Low hotel profitability during the 1974-1975 recession led to a prolonged slump on new construction, high occupancy rates, and real price increases in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Changes in tax and banking laws during the early 1980s precipitated a construction boom which peaked in 1986 but created an oversupply of hotel rooms that has not yet been
absorbed fully by increased demand. The General Partner expects the U.S. hotel supply/demand imbalance to improve gradually over the next few years.
The Manager believes that by emphasizing management and personnel development and by maintaining a competitive price structure, the Hotels will be able to maintain or increase their share of the market. The Partnership believes that its inclusion within the nationwide Marriott full-service hotel system provides advantages of name recognition; centralized reservations and advertising; system-wide marketing and promotion; and centralized purchasing, training, and support services. Additional competitive information is set forth in Item 2 "Properties" with respect to each of the Hotels.
Conflicts of Interest
Since the General Partner, MII, and their affiliates own and/or operate hotels other than those owned by the Partnership, potential conflicts of interest may exist. With respect to these potential conflicts of interest, the General Partner, MII, and their affiliates retain a free right to compete with the Partnership's Hotels, including the right to retain existing hotels which may compete with the Partnership's Hotels and to develop competing hotels in markets in which the Partnership's Hotels are located.
Under Delaware law, the General Partner has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, unless those obligations are by contract without recourse to the partners of the Partnership. Since the General Partner is entitled to manage and control the business and operations of the Partnership and since certain actions taken by the General Partner or the Partnership could expose the General Partner to liability that is not shared by the limited partners (for example tort liability, environmental liability, or the General Partner's liability under its guaranties of the Bank Loan and the S&L Loan), this control could lead to conflicts of interest.
It is the policy of the General Partner that the Partnership's relationship with the General Partner, any affiliate of the General Partner, or persons employed by the General Partner or its affiliates be conducted on terms that are fair to the Partnership and that are commercially reasonable. Agreements and relationships involving the General Partner or its affiliates and the Partnership are on terms consistent with the terms on which the General Partner or its affiliates have dealt with unrelated parties.
The Partnership Agreement provides that agreements, contracts, or arrangements between the Partnership and the General Partner or its affiliates (other than arrangements for rendering legal, tax, accounting, financial, engineering, and procurement services to the Partnership by the General Partner or its affiliates) will be on commercially reasonable terms and will be subject to the following conditions:
(i) the General Partner or the applicable affiliate must be actively engaged in the business of rendering the services or selling or leasing the goods called for under any such agreement, contract, or arrangement;
(ii) any such agreement, contract, or arrangement must be embodied in a written contract which precisely describes the subject matter thereof and all compensation to be paid therefor;
(iii)no rebates or concessions may be received by the General Partner or the applicable affiliate, nor may the General Partner or any affiliate participate in any reciprocal business arrangements which would have the effect of circumventing any of the provisions of the Partnership Agreement;
(iv) no such agreement, contract, or arrangement may be amended in a manner that would increase the fees or other compensation payable to the General Partner or any affiliate in the absence of the consent of the holders of a majority in interest of the limited partners; and
(v) any such agreement, contract, or arrangement that relates to or secures any funds advanced or loaned to the Partnership by the General Partner or any affiliate must reflect commercially reasonable terms; provided that the discretion of the General Partner in determining such terms may not be overruled by the limited partners in the absence of a showing of bad faith on the part of the General Partner or the applicable affiliate.
Employees
The Partnership has no employees. However, the employees of the General Partner are available to perform services for the Partnership. The Partnership reimburses the General Partner for the costs of providing such services. See Item 11 "Management Remuneration" for information regarding payments made to the General Partner for the cost of providing administrative services to the Partnership.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Partnership consisted of eight full-service Hotels as of December 31, 1996, each of which is described below.
Albuquerque Marriott Hotel - Albuquerque, New Mexico
Location
The Albuquerque Marriott Hotel is located on a leased parcel of land of approximately six acres in the northeastern suburbs of Albuquerque in a residential, office, and commercial development called Uptown.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in July 1982, consists of a 16-story guest room tower. The facilities include 411 guest rooms, two restaurants, one lobby bar, and cocktail service in the lobby. There is approximately 13,800 square feet of space for conventions and banquets. Parking is provided for approximately 500 cars. In addition, the Hotel offers an indoor/outdoor pool, hydrotherapy pool, sauna, health club, and gift shop.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently six hotels with approximately 1,800 rooms directly compete with the Albuquerque Marriott Hotel in the Albuquerque market.
Ground Lease
The Hotel site is subject to a ground lease with an initial term expiring in July 2032 and with three renewal options of 10-years each. The ground lease provides for annual rent equal to the greater of (i) 3.5% of annual gross room sales or (ii) $155,000 for the first 10 years and $165,000 thereafter during the initial term of the lease. For periods subsequent to the initial term of the lease, annual rent will equal the greatest of (i) 3.5% of annual gross room sales, (ii) $165,000, or (iii) 10% of the fair market value of the land, determined in each case as of each renewal date of the lease.
Greensboro-High Point Marriott Hotel - Greensboro, North Carolina
Location
The Greensboro-High Point Marriott Hotel is located on approximately 15 acres of leased land on the grounds of the Greensboro-High Point Regional Airport which serves the cities of Greensboro, High Point, and Winston-Salem.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in June 1983, is a six-story tower containing 299 guest rooms including a concierge floor, two restaurants, a lounge, and approximately 9,000 square feet of space for banquets and conventions. Parking for 500 cars is provided. In addition, the Hotel has two lighted tennis courts, an indoor/outdoor pool with a 1,200-square foot deck for banquet functions, a hydrotherapy pool, a gift shop, and a health club .
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently four hotels containing approximately 1,700 rooms directly compete with the Greensboro-High Point Marriott Hotel in the Greensboro market.
Ground Lease
The Hotel site is subject to a ground lease from the Greensboro-High Point Airport Authority with an initial term expiring in June 2008 and with an option to extend for an additional 15 years. Additional renewal options totaling 20 years are available if the Hotel is expanded to 500 rooms. The lease calls for an annual rent equal to the greater of (i) a percentage rent of 2.25% of the annual gross room sales plus 2% of the annual gross alcoholic beverage sales plus 1% of the annual gross food sales or (ii) a minimum rental of $127,000.
During the first extended term, the percentage rental for the annual gross room sales will be increased to 3% and, if on the first day of the extended term the Hotel contains fewer than 400 rooms, the percentage rentals for alcoholic beverage and food sales will increase to 2.5% and 1.25%, respectively.
Houston Marriott Medical Center Hotel - Houston, Texas
Location
The Houston Marriott Medical Center Hotel is located in the Texas Medical Center in Houston, Texas, on a leased site of 23,670 square feet, is situated directly opposite the main building of the Methodist Hospital, and adjoins the Scurlock Towers which houses the Total Health Care Center of Methodist Hospital and approximately 200 doctors' offices.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in August 1984, includes 386 guest rooms, two concierge floors, two restaurants, and a lounge. There is approximately 8,500 square feet of space with facilities for conventions and banquets. Parking is available for approximately 380 cars in an adjacent parking structure. Additional facilities within the Hotel include an indoor pool, a hydrotherapy pool, a gift shop, and a health club.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently six hotels containing approximately 1,600 rooms directly compete with the Houston Marriott Medical Center Hotel in the Houston market.
Ground Lease
The land on which the Hotel is located is subject to a ground lease in which the initial term expires in August 2009 with five 10-year renewal options. The lease provides for a rental equal to the greater of (i) $160,000 or (ii) a percentage rental of 3% of the first $15 million of annual gross room sales plus 3.25% of annual gross room sales in excess of $15 million.
Miami Biscayne Bay Hotel - Miami, Florida
Location
The Miami Biscayne Bay Hotel is located on a leased parcel of land of approximately 1.9 acres plus space and facilities in an adjacent building in a residential and commercial project located on Biscayne Bay in downtown Miami.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in December 1983, is a 31-story tower which has 606 guest rooms, one restaurant, an indoor lounge, and cocktail service in the lobby. Approximately 14,000
square feet of space with facilities for conventions and banquets is available. Parking is provided for 288 cars. In addition, the Hotel has an outdoor pool, a recreation deck, a game room, a gift shop, and a health club.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently five hotels containing approximately 2,500 rooms directly compete with the Miami Biscayne Bay Hotel in the Miami market.
Ground Lease
The Hotel site is subject to a ground lease with an initial term expiring in December 2008, with renewal options for five successive 10-year periods. The lease calls for annual rental of the greater of (i) minimum rental of $1.0 million or (ii) a percentage rental composed of 4% annual gross room sales plus 3% annual gross food and beverage sales.
Marriott's Mountain Shadows Resort - Scottsdale, Arizona
Location
The Mountain Shadows Resort Hotel is located on approximately 25 acres of fee-owned land in Scottsdale, approximately 10 miles north of Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport. Host Marriott owns land adjacent to the site, on which an 18-hole executive-style golf course is located.
Description
Mountain Shadows opened in 1959 and was acquired by the Partnership in 1982. A major renovation program was completed in 1983. The Hotel contains 337 guest rooms as well as three pools, two hydrotherapy pools, eight lighted tennis courts, and a state of the art fitness center. Hotel guests have full privileges at the Mountain Shadows Golf Club which offers an 18-hole executive style golf course. In addition, guests of the Hotel have access to the Camelback Inn Country Club owned by MII (which is approximately two miles from the Hotel and offers two 18-hole championship golf courses) and the Camelback Inn spa located on the Camelback Inn resort grounds. Dining facilities at the Hotel include the family restaurant, a specialty seafood restaurant, and the outdoor terrace associated with these facilities. The Hotel's restaurants can accommodate seating for 430. In addition, the Mountain Shadows Golf Club offers a restaurant/snack bar, a bar, and a patio area. The Hotel has more than 15,000 square feet of space for conventions and banquets. Parking is available for approximately 740 cars.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently five hotels containing approximately 1,500 rooms directly compete with Marriott's Mountain Shadows Resort in the Scottsdale market.
Raleigh Marriott Hotel - Raleigh, North Carolina
Location
The Raleigh Marriott Hotel is located on approximately 10 acres of fee-owned land at the entrance to Crabtree Valley Mall in northwest Raleigh. The Raleigh-Durham Airport and the Research Triangle Park are located ten and seventeen miles west of the site, respectively. Downtown Raleigh is two miles east of the site.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in March 1982, includes 375 guest rooms, one restaurant, a cocktail lounge, and approximately 8,300 square feet of space for conventions and banquets. Parking for approximately 571 cars is provided. In addition, the Hotel offers an indoor/outdoor pool, a concierge lounge, sauna and hydrotherapy facilities, a health club , and a gift shop.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently three hotels with approximately 800 rooms directly compete with the Raleigh Marriott Hotel in the Raleigh market.
Seattle Marriott Hotel Sea-Tac Airport - Seattle, Washington
Location
The Seattle Marriott Hotel is located on nine acres of fee-owned land near the entrance to the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. The Hotel is approximately ten miles from downtown Seattle and approximately three miles from Interstate 5, the major north-south route through Washington.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in January 1981, consists of a nine-story tower and three five-story wings surrounding a landscaped atrium. The facilities include 459 guest rooms, a restaurant, an atrium cocktail service bar, three ballrooms totaling 18,500 square feet, and meeting and conference rooms. In addition, the Hotel has two hydrotherapy pools, a health club, a sauna, an indoor pool, a gift shop, a game room, and parking for 550 cars.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently four hotels containing approximately 1,500 rooms directly compete with the Seattle Marriott Hotel Sea-Tac Airport in the Seattle market.
Tampa Westshore Hotel - Tampa, Florida
Location
The Tampa Hotel is located on a leased parcel of land of approximately seven acres in a major office development just off I-75 on North Westshore Boulevard. The Hotel is approximately two miles from the Tampa International Airport and five miles from downtown Tampa.
Description
The Hotel, which opened in July 1981, consists of a 13-story Hotel tower, a one-and-one-half story lobby, and meeting space. The facilities include 311 guest rooms, a restaurant, a sports bar, a concierge lounge, and approximately 8,400 square feet of space for conventions and banquets. Parking for more than 400 cars is provided. In addition, the Hotel has an indoor/outdoor pool, a hydrotherapy pool, a health club, a game room, and a gift shop.
Competition
Studies by MII indicate that currently eleven hotels containing approximately 3,100 rooms directly compete with the Tampa Westshore Hotel in the Tampa market.
Ground Lease
The Hotel is subject to a ground lease with an initial term expiring in July 2006 with five 10- year renewal options. The lease provides for a percentage rent equal to the greater of (i) 3% of gross room sales plus 1% of gross food sales plus 1% of gross alcoholic beverage sales or (ii) $96,000 per year.
ITEM 3.