Item 2. Properties.
In May 1996, Family Life Insurance Company ("FLIC"), an indirect, 100% owned subsidiary of FIC, purchased a 7.1 acre tract adjacent to the original Bridgepoint Square tract. This second tract contained one building site and one garage site. In January, 1997, FLIC began construction on a four-story office building, with rentable space of approximately 76,793 square feet, and the parking garage, with 350 parking spaces. In May, 1997, the entire rentable space in the building was leased to a major tenant in the technology business. Construction of the parking garage and the building shell was completed in October, 1997.
In November, 1997, Investors-NA and Family Life entered into a sale agreement with an independent third party for the sale of their respective interests in Bridgepoint Square Offices. The transaction, which closed on December 5,1997, was for an aggregate price of $78 million. The sale resulted in a net pre-tax profit to Investors-NA of approximately $14.3 million, and a net pre-tax profit to Family Life of approximately $4.5 million. See Item 2. Properties.
FIC and ILCO have established and staffed an investment department, which manages portfolio investments and investment accounting functions for their life insurance subsidiaries.
Agency Operations
The products of FIC's and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries are marketed and sold through two divisions:
A. Investors Life Distribution System
The Investors Life Distribution System sells a wide range of life insurance and annuity products through an independent, non- exclusive general agent sales distribution system. The products sold are issued by subsidiary companies of ILCO.
All marketing and sales for the Company are directed by the Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales. The Vice President for Investors Sales directs Regional Vice Presidents who are responsible for the recruitment of general agents and managing general agents for individual insurance sales in the Investors Life Distribution System.
B. Family Life Distribution System
This nationwide system sells Family Life's products through an exclusive agent force. This agent force sells mortgage protection life insurance and annuity products. The products are sold primarily to middle-income customers of client financial institutions, usually through a list of borrowers provided by the financial institution. Family Life works closely with the financial institutions to maintain and insure that Family Life lead systems, which had been built from the loan portfolios of each active financial institution, operate at a level that favors both parties. Family Life agents make courtesy calls to borrowers of the financial institutions which are active on the Family Life lead system to offer the borrower the opportunity to purchase mortgage protection insurance (term, universal or whole life insurance products).
Sales and Marketing for Family Life is directed by the Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales. Reporting to the Executive Vice President, the Senior Vice President of Marketing heads the Family Life marketing organization which is focused on the development and maintenance of contractual agreements with the financial institutions which provide referrals to, and collect monthly premiums from, their borrowers for Family Life insurance plans. The Senior Vice President for Family Life Sales directs nine Regional Vice Presidents. The Family Life distribution system consists of 156 District Sales Managers, and 489 active career agents.
Data Processing
Pursuant to a data processing agreement with a major service company, the data processing needs of FIC's and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries were provided at a central location until November 30, 1994. Since December, 1994, all of those data processing needs have been provided to ILCO's and FIC's Austin, Texas and Seattle, Washington facilities by FIC Computer Services, Inc., a new subsidiary of FIC. See Item 13.- Certain Relationships and Related Transactions with Management.
As the provider of data processing for the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, FIC Computer Services, Inc. utilizes a centralized computer system to process policyholder records and financial information. In addition, the Company uses non- centralized computer terminals in connection with its operations. The software programs used by these systems will be affected by what is referred to as the "Year 2000 problem" or "Y2K problem". This refers to the limitations of the programming code in certain existing software programs to recognize date sensitive information as the year 2000 approaches. Unless modified prior to the year 2000, such systems may not properly recognize such information and could generate erroneous data or cause a system to fail to operate properly.
In response to the potential operations and policy administration problems caused by the computer calendar change on January 1, 2000, the management of the Company instructed FIC Computer Services, Inc. to analyze its system capabilities and the operational requirements of the Company and its respective subsidiaries and affiliates with respect to the Y2K problem. In 1996, FIC Computer Services, Inc. conducted the analysis of all of the Company's systems. After reviewing that analysis, the Company determined that a plan should be devised to prevent the data processing errors that may be encountered due to the Y2K problem. In November, 1996, a three-year plan outlining a proposed solution (the "Plan") was established and approved by the Company to ensure that all of the data processing systems would be Y2K compliant or converted onto Y2K compliant systems. The Company began the major work under this Plan in 1997 and it is scheduled to be completed by the Fall of 1999.
The Company established this Plan because FIC Computer Services, Inc.'s analysis revealed that those systems that are not converted or modified into Y2K compliant systems, may produce policy administration errors as a result of the calendar change, requiring that the life insurance subsidiaries manually administer those policies. This would result in a material increase in administrative costs incurred by the life insurance subsidiaries of both ILCO and FIC.
The Company's analysis also indicated that, in addition to potential policy administration errors in the life insurance subsidiaries, any machine which contains a microchip is subject to error due to the Y2K problem. Such an occurrence could not only create errors in the Company's internal systems, but those of the Company's suppliers and service providers. In order to prepare for this contingency, the Plan called for the acquisition of new mainframe hardware and software, and the modification and conversion of our telephones, voice mail and desk-top personal computers.
Additionally, the Company is developing a strategy for obtaining assurances from its various suppliers and service providers. In furtherance of this strategy, the Company is creating questionnaires which it will forward to its suppliers and service providers regarding the Y2K problem. The questionnaire will request information regarding that particular supplier's or service provider's awareness of the Y2K problem, its impact on their operations, and their plan for addressing any problems as they relate to that supplier's or service provider's performance of their contractual obligations to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Plan calls for an upgrade of the Family Life's administrative systems by changing individual lines of computer code in order to modify current operating software such that it will become Y2K compliant. The administrative systems which are not modified will be converted onto the Company's CK/4 System; a system designed to be Y2K compliant according to the representations of the vendor.
Under the Plan, FIC Computer Services, Inc. will utilize its own personnel, acquire Y2K compliant operating software, and engage the assistance of outside consultants to facilitate the systems conversions and modifications. FIC has budgeted approximately $330,000 for implementation of the Plan. In the event that the Plan does not achieve full compliance by the target dates, or if unforeseen matters involving Y2K appear at later dates, the Company will utilize the staff of FIC Computer Services, Inc. to identify and resolve such issues as and if they arise.
In order to continuously evaluate the effectiveness of the modifications and conversions made to the various systems, FIC Computer Services, Inc. has acquired testing software to simulate dates on or after January 1, 2000. Additionally, FIC Computer Services, Inc. runs the systems through model office cycles and also conducts visual inspections of screen displays to determine whether the systems are functioning in a Y2K compliant manner.
A material number of policies administered by Family Life, will be modified rather than converted. The modification of the PMS system (administering approximately 122,000 policies for Family Life) was completed in March, 1998. The conversion of the Cypros AP system (administering approximately 21,400 policies for Family Life) is scheduled for completion at the end of September, 1999.
A non-material number of Family Life policies are administered by systems which also administer policies for ILCO and its subsidiaries. With regard to ILCO and its subsidiaries, the ALIS system (administering approximately 49,280 policies for Investors- NA) was converted to CK/4 in January of 1998. The conversion of the Life 70 system (administering approximately 17,285 policies for Investors-IN) is scheduled for completion in April, 1999. The modification of the Lifecomm-B system which is responsible for the 33,375 policies assumed after the acquisition of State Auto Life is also scheduled for completion in April, 1999. The conversion of the Lifecomm-A system (administering approximately 65,266 policies for Investors-NA) is now scheduled for completion in September of 1999.
The various software applications described above are licensed to the Company or its affiliates under agreements which permit the Company's and ILCO's subsidiaries to process business on its computer systems utilizing such software.
In 1997, FIC Computer Services, Inc. purchased new mainframe hardware and accompanying operating software, which the vendor has represented to be Y2K compliant. FIC Computer Services, Inc. will be testing this hardware and software in 1998. The telephone system has been tested by the maintenance provider for that system and the Company has received assurances that the telephone system is Y2K compliant.
With respect to non-centralized systems(i.e., desktop computers), the Company anticipates that updated software releases will be commercially available well in advance of the year 2000. Accordingly, to the extent that such systems rely on date sensitive information, the Company expects that the effort needed to correct for Y2K problems will be less time intensive than the effort needed to achieve compliance for its centralized
Competition
There are many life and health insurance companies in the United States. Agents placing insurance business with Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries are compensated on a commission basis. However, some companies pay higher commissions and charge lower premium rates and many companies have more substantial resources than Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries. The principal cost and competitive factors that affect the ability of Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries to sell their insurance products on a profitable basis are: (1) the general level of premium rates for comparable products; (2) the extent of individual policyholders services required to service each product category; (3) general interest rate levels; (4) competitive commission rates and related marketing costs; (5) legislative and regulatory requirements and restrictions; (6) the impact of competing insurance and other financial products; and (7) the condition of the regional and national economies.
Reinsurance and Reserves
In accordance with general practices in the insurance industry, Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries limit the maximum net losses that may arise from large risks by reinsuring with other carriers. Such reinsurance provides for a portion of the mortality risk to be retained by Family Life and the ILCO subsidiaries with the excess being ceded to a reinsurer at a premium set forth in a schedule based upon the age and risk classification of the insured. The reinsurance treaties provide for allowances that help Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries offset the expense of writing new business. Family Life generally retains the first $200,000 of risk on the life of any one individual. Investors-IN generally retains the first $60,000 to $100,000 of risk on the life of any individual, depending on the type of coverage being written. Investors-NA generally retains the first $250,000 of risk on the life of any individual.
As discussed above (see Principal Products ), in December, 1997, FLIC and ILCO s life insurance subsidiary entered into a reinsurance treaty under which all of the contractual obligations and risks under accident and health and disability income policies were assumed by a third party reinsurer. In connection with the transaction, the total amount of net reserves transferred by the FLIC was $852,688. In addition to the transfer of reserves, FLIC paid the reinsurer $100,000 in connection with the transaction, which amount was accounted for as an expense for the year ended December 31, 1997. In 1997, the accident and health business generated approximately $735,000 in annualized premiums.
In 1995, Family Life (as the ceding company) entered into a reinsurance agreement with Investors-NA (as the reinsuring company) pertaining to universal life insurance written by Family Life. The reinsurance agreement is on a co-insurance basis and applies to all covered business with effective dates on and after January 1, 1995. The agreement applies to only that portion of the face amount of the policy which is less than $200,000; face amounts of $200,000 or more are reinsured by Family Life with a third party reinsurer. In 1996, Family Life (as the ceding company) entered into a reinsurance agreement with Investors-NA (as the reinsuring company), pertaining to annuity contracts written by Family Life. The agreement applies to contracts written on or after January 1, 1996. These reinsurance arrangements reflect management's plan to develop universal life and annuity business at Investors-NA, with Family Life concentrating on the writing of term life insurance products.
Although reinsurance does not eliminate the exposure of FIC's and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries to losses from risks insured, the net liability of such subsidiaries will be limited to the portion of the risk retained, provided that the reinsurers meet their contractual obligations.
ILCO's insurance subsidiaries and Family Life carry reserves on their books to meet future obligations under their outstanding insurance policies. Such reserves are believed to be sufficient to meet policy obligations as they mature and are calculated using assumptions for interest, mortality, expenses and withdrawals in effect at the time the policies were issued.
Acquisition of Family Life
In June, 1991 FIC purchased Family Life, a State of Washington based life insurance corporation, from Merrill Lynch Insurance Group, Inc. ("Merrill Lynch"). The business of Family Life, as reconstituted for sale, consists principally of the underwriting and sale of life insurance to mortgage borrowers through lending institutions.
The consideration for the purchase was $114 million consisting of a cash payment of $70 million and $44 million of subordinated promissory notes issued by subsidiaries of FIC to the seller and its affiliates.
To effectuate the transaction, FIC organized two downstream holding companies: Family Life Corporation ("FLC"), and Family Life Insurance Investment Corporation ("FLIIC"). FLIIC was organized as a wholly-owned subsidiary of FIC and, in turn, was issued all of the outstanding shares of FLC. FLC purchased 250,000 shares of common stock, being all of the outstanding shares, of Family Life from Merrill Lynch for an $84 million cash payment (including $14 million that had been borrowed by FLIIC from an affiliate of Merrill Lynch) and a $30 million senior subordinated note. Following the purchase of the Family Life shares by FLC, Family Life issued 250,000 previously unissued shares of its common stock to FLC for a $2.5 million cash payment and immediately thereafter redeemed from FLC 250,000 shares of its common stock that had been purchased by FLC from Merrill Lynch. The consideration paid to FLC by Family Life for said redeemed shares consisted of $2.5 million cash, a newly issued surplus debenture (an instrument having certain restrictions on payment for the protection of policyholders) in the principal amount of $97.5 million and $14 million principal value of newly issued preferred shares.
As part of the financing arrangement, FLC entered into a Senior Loan agreement under which $50 million was provided by a group of banks (the "Family Life Senior Loan"). The balance of the financing consisted of a $30 million subordinated note issued by FLC to Merrill Lynch and $14 million borrowed by FLIIC from an affiliate of Merrill Lynch and evidenced by a subordinated note in the principal amount of $12 million and a subordinated note in the principal amount of $2 million (collectively, the "Merrill Lynch Subordinated Loans") and $25 million lent by two insurance company subsidiaries of ILCO (the "Investors Life Subordinated Loans"). The latter amount was represented by a $22.5 million loan from Investors-NA to FLC and a $2.5 million loan provided directly to FIC by Investors-CA. In addition to the interest provided under the Investors Life Subordinated Loans, Investors-NA and Investors- CA were granted by FIC non-transferable options to purchase, in amounts proportionate to their respective loans, up to a total of 9.9 percent of shares of FIC common stock at a price of $10.50 per share, equivalent to the then current market price, subject to adjustment to prevent dilution. The initial terms of the option provided for their expiration on June 12, 1998, if not previously exercised. In connection with the 1996 amendments to the $34.5 million subordinated loans obtained from Investors-NA, the expiration date of the options was extended to September 12, 2006. For a discussion of the 1996 amendments, please refer to Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions with Management, above.
Of the total of $119 million of cash borrowed and notes issued by FIC and its subsidiaries for purposes of the transaction, $114 million constituted the purchase price for Family Life and $5 million was used to pay transaction costs, for working capital and for other related purposes. In connection with the several loans effected for purposes of the transaction, various creditors priorities and normal borrower requirements and restrictions were established and FIC issued its direct guaranty of the respective loans, subject to certain priorities, to the various lending banks, Merrill Lynch and its affiliates, and Investors-NA and Investors- CA. The outstanding shares of common stock of Family Life were also pledged as collateral to the bank lenders and, upon repayment of the bank loan, to Merrill Lynch. The transaction was structured to conform to the requirements of Section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code.
On July 30, 1993, the Merrill Lynch Subordinated Loans were prepaid. $38 million plus accrued interest was paid to retire the indebtedness, which had a principal balance of approximately $50 million on July 30, 1993. The primary source of the funds used to prepay the Merrill Lynch Subordinated Loans was new subordinated loans totaling $34.5 million that were obtained from Investors-NA. See "The Family Life Refinancing."
Family Life Senior and Subordinated Loans
Senior Loan. The Senior Loan obligations of FLC were completely paid off on April 17, 1996. During the period that the Senior Loan was in effect, it was a secured and guaranteed five year term loan in the initial principal amount of $50 million. The Senior Loan consisted of separate notes (one for each member of the lending syndicate), with interest payable quarterly and a final maturity date of June 12, 1996. The interest rate of the Senior Loan was subject to periodic change based upon stipulated percentages above a quoted bank base lending rate or Eurodollar rate as such are in effect from time to time.
Upon the retirement of the Senior Loan, certain of the its provisions were automatically incorporated into the Investors Life Subordinated Loans which are described in the following section. Those provisions include specified events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay principal, interest, commitment fees or other amounts payable when due, failure to maintain certain financial covenants, violation of covenants (including covenants with respect to the maintenance of a minimum net worth), material misrepresentations, defaults under other indebtedness, the loss of any license of an insurance subsidiary of FLC which would have a material adverse effect on FLC, defaults under the FIC guaranty agreement, a fine in an amount in excess of $100,000 imposed upon any insurance subsidiary of FLC by any state insurance regulatory agency, changes in ownership or control of FIC by its controlling person, Roy F. Mitte, or in ILCO by FIC and the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy. In addition, the security interests furnished to the lenders under the Senior Loan were transferred to Investors-NA. The security interests include all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of FLIIC, all of the issued and outstanding shares of preferred stock and common stock of FLC and Family Life and the $97.5 million surplus debenture of Family Life.
Investors Life Subordinated Loans. The $22.5 million subordinated senior note issued by FLC to Investors-NA was originally scheduled to mature on June 12, 1998, with principal payments in four equal semi-annual principal installments of $5,625,000 each on December 12, 1996, June 12, 1997, December 12, 1997 and June 12, 1998. Interest is payable semi-annually, at the rate of 11% per annum. Effective as of June 12, 1996, the note was amended to provide for twenty quarterly principal payments, in the amount of $1,125,000 each, to commence on December 12, 1996. The final quarterly principal payment is due on September 12, 2001. The interest rate on the note remains at 11%.
The $2.5 million subordinated note issued by FIC to Investors-CA initially provided for interest, payable semi-annually, at the rate of 12% per annum, and its principal is due and payable in full at maturity on June 12, 1998 (the "FIC Note"). As a result of the merger of Investors-CA into Investors-NA, the FIC Note is now owned by Investors-NA. Prior to June 12, 1996, accrued interest on the FIC Note was paid by delivery of additional notes of FIC having terms identical to such original note, including the payment of interest (the "PIK Notes"). Interest payable on and after June 12, 1996 on all of the FIC Note is to be paid in cash. Effective as of June 12, 1996, the FIC Note was amended to provide that the principal balance of the note is to be repaid in twenty quarterly installments of $125,000 each, commencing December 12, 1996 with the final payment due on September 12, 2001. With respect to the PIK Notes, the amendment provided that the principal balance of the notes ($1,977,119) is to be paid in twenty quarterly principal payments, in the amount of $98,855.95 each, commencing December 12, 1996 with the final payment due on September 12, 2001. The interest rate on both the FIC Note and the PIK Notes remained at 12%.
The obligors are allowed to prepay the Investors Life Subordinated Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. During the time that the Senior Loan was outstanding, the Investors Life Subordinated Loans were subordinated to the Senior Loan and constitute a second lien on the pledged collateral subject to the first lien of the Senior Loan. Repayment of FLC's $22.5 million note is also guaranteed by FIC.
The Investors Life Subordinated Loan documents specify events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay principal, interest or other amounts payable with respect to the Investors Life Subordinated Loan documents when due, violation of covenants in the Investors Life Subordinated Loan documents (including covenants with respect to the maintenance of a minimum net worth), material misrepresentations, defaults under other indebtedness, and the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy.
The Investors Life Subordinated Loan documents also contain various specified negative, affirmative and financial covenants to be performed or observed by FLC, FIC and their subsidiaries. During the period the Senior Loan was outstanding, the covenants in effect under the Investors Life Subordinated Loan documents were less restrictive than the covenants under the Senior Loan documents but become generally equivalent to the Senior Loan restrictions upon the termination of the Senior Loan.
On July 30, 1993, Investors-NA loaned $34.5 million to FLC and FLIIC in the form of subordinated notes in connection with the prepayment of the Merrill Lynch Subordinated Loans. See "The Family Life Refinancing."
As of December 31, 1997 the outstanding principal balance of the Investors Life Subordinated Loans, including the loans made by Investors-NA in 1993 was $53,792,485.
Options. In addition to the interest provided under the Investors Life Subordinated Loans, Investors-NA and Investors-CA were granted by FIC non-transferable options to purchase, in amounts proportionate to their respective loans, up to a total of 9.9 percent of shares of FIC common stock at a price of $2.10 per share (as adjusted to reflect the five-for-one stock split in November, 1996), equivalent to the then current market price, subject to adjustment to prevent dilution. The initial terms of the option provided for their expiration on June 12, 1998, if not previously exercised. In connection with the 1996 amendments to the $34.5 million subordinated loans obtained from Investors-NA, the expiration date of the options was extended to September 12, 2006.
The Family Life Refinancing. On July 30, 1993, the Merrill Lynch Subordinated Loans were prepaid. $38 million plus accrued interest was paid to retire the indebtedness, which had a principal balance of approximately $50 million on July 30, 1993.
The primary source of the funds used to prepay the Merrill Lynch Subordinated Loans was new subordinated loans totaling $34.5 million that were obtained from Investors-NA. Prior to the 1996 amendments described below, the principal amount of the new subordinated debt was payable in four equal annual installments in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The interest rate is 9%. The other terms of the 1993 notes are substantially the same as those of the $22.5 million subordinated loan that Investors-NA had previously made to FLC and that continue to be outstanding.
The $34.5 million of new subordinated loans consist of a $30 million loan to FLC and a $4.5 million loan to FLIIC. The debt restructuring reduced the total indebtedness of FLC and FLIIC by approximately $15 million. The transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $12 million for the Company in the third quarter of 1993, and the Company estimates that the restructuring of this subordinated debt will result in aggregate interest savings to FLC and FLIIC of approximately $40 million over the next ten years. In recognition of this reduced interest requirement, the interest rate on the surplus debenture of Family Life held by FLC was reduced from 12.5% to 9%.
As of June 12, 1996, the provisions of the notes from Investors-NA to FIC, FLC and FLIIC were modified as follows: (a) the $22.5 million note was amended to provide for twenty quarterly principal payments, in the amount of $1,125,000 each, to commence on December 12, 1996; the final quarterly principal payment is due on September 12, 2001; the interest rate on the note remains at 11%, (b) the $30 million note was amended to provide for forty quarterly principal payments, in the amount of $163,540 each for the period December 12, 1996 to September 12, 2001; beginning with the principal payment due on December 12, 2001, the amount of the principal payment increases to $1,336,458; the final quarterly principal payment is due on September 12, 2006; the interest rate on the note remains at 9%, (c) the $4.5 million note was amended to provide for forty quarterly principal payments, in the amount of $24,531 each for the period December 12, 1996 to September 12, 2001; beginning with the principal payment due on December 12, 2001, the amount of the principal payment increases to $200,469; the final quarterly principal payment is due on September 12, 2006; the interest rate on the note remains at 9%, (d) the $2.5 million note was amended to provide that the principal balance of the note is to be repaid in twenty quarterly installments of $125,000 each, commencing December 12, 1996 with the final payment due on September 12, 2001; the rate of interest remains at 12%, (e) the Master PIK note, which was issued to provide for the payment in kind of interest due under the terms of the $2.5 million note prior to June 12, 1996, was amended to provide that the principal balance of the note ($1,977,119) is to be paid in twenty quarterly principal payments, in the amount of $98,855.95 each, to commence December 12, 1996 with the final payment due on September 12, 2001; the interest rate on the note remains at 12%.
ILCO's Senior Loan
FIC guarantees ILCO's Senior Loan that was the source of funds used for the acquisition of Investors-NA and Investors-CA. The current Senior Loan of ILCO was originally arranged in connection with the 1988 acquisition of Investors-NA and Investors-CA. In January, 1993, refinanced its Senior Loan. That transaction was done in connection with the prepayment of the subordinated indebtedness and the purchase of warrants which had been issued as part of the financing of the 1988 acquisitions. The terms of the amended and restated credit facility are substantially the same as the terms and provisions of the 1988 Senior Loan. The average interest rate paid by ILCO on its Senior Loan was approximately 8.63% during 1995, 7.76% during 1996 and 7.68% during 1997. The maturity date, which had been December 31, 1996, was extended to July 1, 1998 for the Senior Loan.
In February, 1995, ILCO borrowed an additional $15 million under the Senior Loan to help finance the acquisition of Meridian Life Insurance Company, and the maturity date of the Senior Loan was further extended to July 1, 1999. As of December 31, 1995, the outstanding principal balance of ILCO's Senior Loan obligations was $59.4 million. In January, 1996, ILCO made a scheduled payment of $4.5 million under its Senior Loan. In March, 1996, ILCO made the scheduled payments for April 1st and July 1st, totaling $9 million. At that same time, ILCO made a payment of $941,000, an additional payment under the terms of the loan applied to the principal balance. On April 1, 1996, an optional principal payment in the amount of $15 million was made, which resulted in advancing the scheduled payoff date of the Senior Loan to April 1, 1998. In July, 1996, ILCO made the principal payment for October 1st ($4.5 million), plus an optional principal payment of $0.5 million. In connection with ILCO's acquisition of State Auto Life Insurance Company in July, 1997, ILCO's Senior Loan agreement was modified to extend the maturity date to October 1, 1998.
ILCO's Senior Loan bears interest, at the option of ILCO, at a rate per annum equal to (i) the Alternate Base Rate (as defined below) plus the Applicable Margin (as defined below), or (ii) LIBOR (adjusted for reserves) for interest periods of 1, 2, 3 or 6 months plus the Applicable Margin. LIBOR is London Inter-Bank Offered Rates. The Alternate Base Rate for any day is the higher of (a) the agent bank's corporate base rate as announced from time to time and (b) the federal funds rate as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York plus 0.5%. The Applicable Margin, depending on the outstanding principal balance of the Senior Loan, ranges from 0.5% to 1.25% for loans that bear interest based upon the Alternate Base Rate and from 1.75% to 2.5% for loans that bear interest based upon LIBOR. The initial Applicable Margin for Alternate Base Rate loans is 1.25% and the initial Applicable Margin for LIBOR loans is 2.5%.
The obligations of ILCO under the Senior Loan are secured by: (1) all of the outstanding shares of stock of Investors-NA, (2) a $15,000,000 surplus debenture of Investors-NA payable to ILCO, which had an outstanding principal balance of $5,206,224 as of December 31, 1997 and (3) a $140,000,000 surplus debenture of Investors-NA payable to ILCO, which had an outstanding principal balance of $22,590,000 as of December 31, 1997. The obligations of ILCO under the Senior Loan are guaranteed by FIC.
The ILCO Senior Loan prohibits the payment by ILCO of cash dividends on its common stock and contains covenants, including restrictive covenants that impose limitations on ILCO's and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: (i) make investments; (ii) create or incur additional debt; (iii) engage in businesses other than their present and related businesses; (iv) create or incur additional liens; (v) incur contingent obligations; (vi) dispose of assets, (vii) enter into transactions with affiliated companies; and (viii) make capital expenditures; and various financial covenants, including covenants requiring the maintenance of a minimum cash flow coverage ratio, minimum consolidated net worth and minimum statutory surplus of subsidiaries, and a minimum ratio (360%) of (i) the sum of the statutory capital and surplus, the asset valuation reserve and one-half of the dividend liability pertaining to participating policies of each insurance company subsidiary to (ii) its respective Authorized Control Level RBC (see "Regulation").
The ILCO Senior Loan specifies events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay amounts under the Senior Loan documents when due; defaults or violation of covenants under other indebtedness; defaults under the loans made by Investors-NA to subsidiaries of FIC; the loss of any license of an insurance subsidiary of ILCO which would have a material adverse effect on ILCO; defaults under the FIC guaranty agreement; changes in ownership or control of FIC or ILCO by its controlling person, Roy F. Mitte, or in ILCO by FIC; and the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy. If Mr. Mitte ceases to control the management of ILCO solely by reason of (i) his death or (ii) his permanent inability to perform his usual and customary duties on a full-time basis on behalf of ILCO and FIC as the result of physical or mental infirmity, a default will occur, and the banks holding in the aggregate at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding balance of the Senior Loan may, on or after 180 days after the date on which such default occurs, declare the Senior Loan immediately due and payable. Mr. Mitte's ability to communicate and his mobility are impaired as a result of a stroke he suffered in May 1991. However, Mr. Mitte continues to control the management of ILCO and FIC, and Mr. Mitte's impairments did not constitute a default under the ILCO Senior Loan. See Item 10(b)-Executive Officers of the Registrant.
The principal balance of the ILCO Senior Loan was $10.96 million as of December 31, 1997.
Regulation
General. ILCO's insurance subsidiaries and Family Life are subject to regulation and supervision by the states in which they are licensed to do business. Such regulation is designed primarily to protect policy owners. Although the extent of regulation varies by state, the respective state insurance departments have broad administrative powers relating to the granting and revocation of licenses to transact business, licensing of agents, the regulation of trade practices and premium rates, the approval of form and content of financial statements and the type and character of investments.
These laws and regulations require Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum surplus levels and to file detailed periodic reports with the supervisory agencies in each of the states in which they do business, and their business and accounts are subject to examination by such agencies at any time. The insurance laws and regulations of the domiciliary states of FIC's and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries require that such subsidiaries be examined at specified intervals. Family Life is domiciled in the State of Washington. Investors-NA and Investors- IN are domiciled in the states of Washington and Indiana, respectively. In December 1992, Investors-NA redomesticated from Pennsylvania to Washington, and Investors-CA merged into Investors-NA. In June, 1993, Standard Life merged into Investors-NA. Prior to December, 1997, Investors-IN was domiciled in the State of New Jersey. In December, 1997, Investors-IN transferred its domicile to the State of Indiana.
A number of states regulate the manner and extent to which insurance companies may test for Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) antibodies in connection with the underwriting of life insurance policies. To the extent permitted by law, Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries consider AIDS information in underwriting coverages and establishing premium rates. An evaluation of the financial impact of future AIDS claims is extremely difficult, due in part to insufficient and conflicting data regarding the incidence of the disease in the general population and the prognosis for the probable future course of the disease.
Risk-Based Capital Requirements. Effective for the 1993 calendar year, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has adopted Risk-Based Capital ("RBC") requirements to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks associated with: (i) asset quality; (ii) mortality and morbidity; (iii) asset and liability matching; and (iv) other business factors. The states will use the RBC formula as an early warning tool to discover potential weakly capitalized companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. The RBC requirements are not intended to be a basis for ranking the relative financial strength of insurance companies. In addition, the formula defines a new minimum capital standard which will supplement the prevailing system of low fixed minimum capital and surplus requirements on a state-by-state basis.
The RBC requirements provide for four different levels of regulatory attention in those states that adopt the NAIC regulations, depending on the ratio of the company's Total Adjusted Capital (which generally consists of its statutory capital, surplus and asset valuation reserve) to its Authorized Control Level RBC. A "Company Action Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 200% but greater than or equal to 150% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, or if a negative trend has occurred (as defined by the regulations) and Total Adjusted Capital is less than 250% but more than 200% of its Authorized Control Level RBC. When a Company Action Level Event occurs, the company must submit a comprehensive plan to the regulatory authority which discusses proposed corrective actions to improve its capital position. A "Regulatory Action Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 150% but greater than or equal to 100% of its Authorized Control Level RBC. When a Regulatory Action Level Event occurs, the regulatory authority will perform a special examination of the company and issue an order specifying corrective actions that must be followed. An "Authorized Control Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 100% but greater than or equal to 70% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, and the regulatory authority may take any action it deems necessary, including placing the company under regulatory control. A "Mandatory Control Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 70% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, and the regulatory authority is mandated to place the company under its control.
Calculations using the NAIC formula and the statutory financial statements of Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 indicate that the Total Adjusted Capital of each of FIC's and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries is above 680% of its respective Authorized Control Level RBC.
Solvency Laws Assessments. The solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which an insurance company does business may require that company to pay assessments (up to certain prescribed limits) to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insurance companies that become insolvent. Recent insolvencies of insurance companies increase the possibility that such assessments may be required. These assessments may be deferred or forgiven under most guaranty laws if they would threaten an insurer's financial strength and, in certain instances, may be offset against future premium taxes. The insurance companies record the expense for guaranty fund assessments in the period assessed. The net amounts of such assessments for Family Life and ILCO's insurance subsidiaries were approximately $16,441 and $70,253 , respectively, in the year ended December 31, 1997. Those amounts are net of the amounts that can be offset against future premium taxes and, in the case of Family Life, the amount is also net of the amount that can be recovered from Merrill Lynch pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement between FIC and Merrill Lynch. See "Acquisition of Family Life." The likelihood and amount of any other future assessments cannot be estimated and are beyond the control of FIC and ILCO.
Surplus Debentures and Dividends. The principal sources of cash for FLC to make payments of principal and interest on the Family Life Senior Loan are payments under the surplus debenture of Family Life Insurance Company (a Washington-domiciled insurer) and dividends paid by Family Life . Under current Washington law, any proposed payment of a dividend or distribution which, together with dividends or distributions paid during the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31 or (ii) statutory net gain from operations for the preceding calendar year is an "extraordinary dividend" and may not be paid until either it has been approved, or a 60-day waiting period shall have passed during which it has not been disapproved, by the Washington Insurance Commissioner. Effective July 25, 1993, Washington amended its insurance code to retain the above-described "greater of" standard for dividends, but enacted requirements that prior notification of a proposed dividend be given to the Washington Insurance Commissioner and that cash dividends may be paid only from earned surplus. Family Life does not presently have earned surplus as defined by the regulations adopted by the Washington Insurance Commissioner and, therefore, is not presently permitted to pay cash dividends. However, since the new law applies only to dividend payments, the ability of Family Life to make principal and interest payments under the surplus debenture is not affected.
Principal and interest payments on the surplus debenture have provided sufficient funds to meet debt service obligations of FLC. Under the provisions of the surplus debenture and current law, Family Life can pay interest and principal on the surplus debenture without having to obtain the prior approval of the Washington Insurance Commissioner; provided that, after giving effect to the payment of interest or principal on the surplus debenture, the statutory capital and surplus of Family Life exceeds 6% of its assets. Pursuant to the surplus debenture, Family Life paid principal and interest in 1995, 1996 and 1997 totaling $16,052,400, $13,526,338 and $11,903,287, respectively. Family Life does give five-days prior notification to the Washington Insurance Department of each proposed payment on the surplus debenture in accordance with an agreement between Family Life and the Department. The Company does not anticipate that Family Life will have any difficulty in making principal and interest payments on the surplus debenture in the amounts necessary to enable FLC to service its indebtedness for the foreseeable future.
Valuation Reserves. Commencing in 1992, the Mandatory Securities Valuation Reserve ("MSVR") required by the NAIC for life insurance companies was replaced by a mandatory Asset Valuation Reserve ("AVR") which is expanded to cover mortgage loans, real estate and other investments. During 1997, a change in the NAIC's AVR procedures resulted in a one-time reduction in the amount of the reserves held by Family Life, with a corresponding one-time increase in the amount of surplus, in the amount of $320,000. A new mandatory Interest Maintenance Reserve ("IMR"), designed to defer realized capital gains and losses due to interest rate changes on fixed income investments and to amortize those gains and losses into future income, is also effective for 1992. Previously, realized capital gains attributable to interest rate changes were credited to the MSVR and had the effect of reducing Family Life's required MSVR contributions. Effective in 1992, such realized capital gains are credited to the IMR. The combination of the AVR and IMR will affect statutory capital and surplus and may reduce the ability of Family Life to pay dividends and make payments on the surplus debenture.
Insurance Holding Company Regulation. Family Life is subject to regulation under the insurance and insurance holding company statutes of Washington. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries of insurance holding companies to register with the applicable state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports describing, among other information, their capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. The insurance holding company statutes also require prior regulatory agency approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, their parent companies and affiliates.
Under the Washington Insurance Code, unless (i) certain filings are made with the Washington Department of Insurance, (ii) certain requirements are met, including a public hearing and (iii) approval or exemption is granted by the insurance commissioner, no person may acquire any voting security or security convertible into a voting security of an insurance holding company, such as the Company, which controls a Washington insurance company, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would "control" the insurance holding company. "Control" is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more or the voting securities of another person.
Potential Federal Regulation. Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal initiatives often have an impact on the business. Congress and certain federal agencies are investigating the current condition of the insurance industry (encompassing both life and health and property and casualty insurance) in the United States in order to decide whether some form of federal role in the regulation of insurance companies would be appropriate. Congress is currently conducting a variety of hearings relating in general to the solvency of insurers. It is not possible to predict the outcome of any such congressional activity nor the potential effects thereof on Family Life.
Congressional initiatives directed at repeal of the McCarran- Ferguson Act (which exempts the "business of insurance" from most federal laws, including the antitrust laws, to the extent it is subject to state regulation) and judicial decisions narrowing the definition of "business of insurance" for McCarran-Ferguson Act purposes may limit the ability of insurance companies in general to share information with respect to rate-setting, underwriting and claims management practices. Current and proposed federal measures which may also significantly affect the insurance industry include minimum solvency requirements and removal of barriers preventing banks from engaging in the insurance business.
Federal Income Taxation
The Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990 amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require a portion of the expenses incurred in selling insurance products to be deducted over a period of years, as opposed to an immediate deduction in the year incurred. Since this change only affects the timing of the deductions, it does not affect tax expense as shown on the Company's financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. However, the change will increase the tax for statutory accounting purposes in the first few years, which will reduce statutory surplus and, accordingly, may decrease the amount of cash dividends that Family Life can pay. For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the increases (decreases) in Family Life's current income tax provisions, utilizing the effective tax rates, due to this change were $77,498, $183,358 and ($136,000), respectively. The change has a negative tax effect for statutory accounting purposes when Family Life's premium income increases, but has a positive tax effect when its premium income decreases.
Item 2. Properties
The Registrant's headquarters are currently located at Austin Centre, 701 Brazos, Suite 1400, Austin, Texas. A subsidiary of ILCO, Investors-NA, purchased Austin Centre, an office-hotel property in downtown Austin in August 1991 for a purchase price of $31,275,000 from an unrelated seller that had previously acquired the property through foreclosure. Austin Centre covers a full city block and is a sixteen story mixed use development consisting of 343,664 square feet of office/retail space (predominately office space), a 314 room hotel and 61 luxury apartments, all united by a 200 foot high glass atrium. The project was completed in October 1986.
In September 1995, Investors-NA entered into a contract to sell Austin Centre to an Austin-based real estate investment firm for a purchase price of $62.675 million, less $1 million to be paid to a capital reserve account for the purchaser. The sale was consummated on March 29, 1996. A portion of the sale proceeds equal to the amount that Investors-NA presently had invested in Austin Centre were retained and reinvested by Investors-NA. The balance of the net proceeds of the sale were used to reduce ILCO's bank indebtedness by approximately $15 million.
Following the sale of the Austin Centre, the Company and its affiliates continued to occupy three floors of the office space, under a lease arrangement. The current lease, which was entered into in May, 1997, is for a five (5) year term ending in October, 2002, with options to renew for three successive five (5) year terms thereafter.
In January, 1995, ILCO, through Investors-NA, purchased, as an investment property, an office building project known as Bridgepoint Office Square in Austin, Texas for a cash purchase price of $9.75 million. The property consists of 20 acres of land with four office building sites and two parking structure sites. The first phase of development of the property was completed in 1986 and consists of a five-story office building with 83,474 square feet of rentable space and a 550-car parking garage. The office space was fully rented.
In the fourth quarter of 1995, construction began on the second office building, containing approximately 109,000 rentable square feet, and the other parking garage containing approximately 871 spaces. That phase of the project was completed in September 1996, and is 100% leased to a major tenant in the technology business.
In March 1996, construction commenced on the third office building, with approximately 81,000 rentable square feet of office space and was completed in December, 1996. Investors-NA leased approximately 43,000 square feet of the third office building to the same tenant which leased all of the space in the second building. The remaining space was leased in October, 1996 to a major tenant also in the technology business.
Construction began on the fourth building in July 1996, and was completed in July, 1997. The fourth building contains approximately 92,459 rentable square feet. In September of 1996, approximately 23,619 rentable square feet were leased to an oil and gas company, which then expanded its premises to 29,631 under an expansion option contained in its Lease. Another 8,368 square feet was leased in March, 1997, to a company involved in the technology field. In June, 1997, approximately 40,611 rentable square feet was leased to a tenant in the technology field. In November, 1997 approximately 2967 rentable square feet was leased to a securities brokerage firm. The remaining 10,882 rentable square feet is reserved for a health club facility and a retail food outlet.
On May 3, 1996, Family Life purchased a tract of land adjoining the Bridgepoint Office Square tract for a cash purchase price of $1.3 million. The property consists of 7.1 acres of land with one office building site and one parking structure site. Family Life began construction of the fifth building (known as "Bridgepoint Five") on the new site in January 1997. In May, 1997, the entire rentable space (approximately 76,793 rentable square feet) contained in the building was leased to a major tenant in the technology business. Construction of the parking garage and the building shell was completed in October, 1997.
On November 24, 1997, Investors-NA and Family Life entered into a contract with Health and Retirement Properties Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Purchaser") to sell their respective interests in the Bridgepoint Square Office complex. The aggregate purchase price for the project was $78,000,000. The transaction closed on December 5, 1997. The purchase price was allocated approximately 78.5% to Investors-NA and 21.5% to Family Life. The sale of Bridgepoint Office Square resulted in a net profit to Investors-NA of approximately $14.0 million ($9.1 million after tax) that is included in ILCO's fourth quarter earnings. For Family Life, the sale resulted in a net profit of approximately $4.5 million ($3.2 million after tax)that is included in FIC's fourth quarter earnings.
Pursuant to the terms of the Bridgepoint Sale Agreement, Family Life is obligated to complete the construction of and tenant improvements in Bridgepoint Five. At the date on which the transaction closed, the building shell and adjacent parking garage had been completed, except for the client briefing center. As of March, 1998, all tenant improvements had been completed subject to final inspection.
Family Life leases its home offices at the Sedgwick James Building, 2101 Fourth Avenue, in Seattle, Washington. The lease currently covers approximately 7,776 rentable square feet of office space for a term expiring in October 1998 with an option to renew for an additional three-year period. The initial base rental is approximately $11,200 per month, which includes Family Life's proportionate share of the building's operating expenses, including utilities, property taxes, insurance, maintenance and management. Actual increases from those initial operating expenses during the lease term are passed on to Family Life on a proportionate basis.
ILCO leases a building located at 40 Parker Road, Elizabeth, New Jersey. This building, which was formerly the ILCO's headquarters building, contains approximately 41,000 square feet of office space. The remaining term of the lease is 8 years, and the lease calls for a minimum base rental of $450,000 per annum. The lease provides that all costs including, but not limited to, those for maintenance, repairs, insurance and taxes be borne by ILCO. ILCO has sub-leased the space in the property to third parties.
The Company believes that its properties and leased space are adequate to meet its foreseeable requirements.
Item 3.