ITEM 2
PROPERTIES
Portfolio of Investments: The following tables set forth certain information relating to each of FREIT's real estate investments in addition to the specific mortgages encumbering the properties.
Residential Apartment Properties as of October 31, 2008:
Commercial Properties as of October 31, 2008:
Supplemental Segment Information:
FREIT believes that it has a diversified portfolio of residential and commercial properties. FREIT’s business is not materially dependent upon any single tenant or any one of its properties.
The following table lists FREIT’s properties that have contributed approximately 15% of FREIT’s total revenue in one (1) or more of the last three (3) fiscal years.
Although FREIT’s general investment policy is to hold properties as long-term investments, FREIT could selectively sell certain properties if it determines that any such sale is in FREIT’s and its shareholders’ best interests. With respect to FREIT’s future acquisition and development activities, FREIT will evaluate various real estate opportunities, which FREIT believes would increase FREIT’s revenues and earnings, as well as compliment and increase the overall value of FREIT’s existing investment portfolio.
Except for the Pathmark supermarket super store located in Patchogue, Long Island, the Commerce Bank branch located in Rockaway, NJ and the Pascack Community Bank branch to be constructed on our land in Rochelle Park, NJ, all of FREIT’s and its subsidiaries’ commercial properties have multiple tenants.
FREIT and its subsidiaries’ commercial properties have eighteen (18) anchor / major tenants, that account for approximately 64% of the space leased. The balance of the space is leased to one hundred and seventy six (176) satellite and office tenants. The following table lists the anchor / major tenants at each center and the number of satellite tenants:
With respect to most of FREIT’s commercial properties, lease terms range from five (5) years to twenty-five (25) years with options, which if exercised would extend the terms of such leases. The lease agreements generally provide for reimbursement of real estate taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses of the properties. During the last three (3) completed fiscal years, FREIT’s commercial properties averaged a 90.1% occupancy rate with respect to FREIT’s available leasable space.
Leases for FREIT’s apartment buildings and complexes are usually one (1) year in duration. Even though the residential units are leased on a short-term basis, FREIT has averaged, during the last three (3) completed fiscal years, a 95.1% occupancy rate with respect to FREIT’s available apartment units.
FREIT does not believe that any seasonal factors materially affect FREIT’s business operations and the leasing of its commercial and apartment properties.
FREIT believes that its properties are covered by adequate fire and property insurance provided by reputable companies and with commercially reasonable deductibles and limits.
ITEM
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
There are no material pending legal proceedings to which FREIT is a party, or of which any of its properties is the subject. There is, however, ordinary and routine litigation involving FREIT's business including various tenancy and related matters. Notwithstanding the environmental conditions disclosed in “Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business - Impact of Governmental Laws and Regulations on Registrant’s Business; Environmental Matters,” there are no legal proceedings concerning environmental issues with respect to any property owned by FREIT.
ITEM
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of FREIT's 2008 fiscal year.
PART II
ITEM
MARKET FOR FREIT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Shares of Beneficial Interest
Beneficial interests in FREIT are represented by shares without par value (the “Shares”). The Shares represent FREIT’s only authorized, issued and outstanding class of equity. As of January 13, 2009, there were approximately 500 holders of record of the Shares.
The Shares are traded in the over-the-counter market through use of the OTC Bulletin Board Service (the “OTC Bulletin Board”) provided by FINRA, Inc. FREIT does not believe that an active United States public trading market exists for the Shares since historically only small volumes of the Shares are traded on a sporadic basis. The following table sets forth, at the end of the periods indicated, the Bid and Asked quotations for the Shares on the OTC Bulletin Board.
The bid quotations set forth above for the Shares reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. The source of the bid and asked quotations is Janney Montgomery Scott, LLC., members of the New York Stock Exchange and other national securities exchanges.
Share Repurchase Program
Information regarding FREIT’s share repurchase program under Rules 10b-18 and 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the three (3) months ended October 31, 2008 is as follows:
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (1)(2)(3)(4)
(1)
On April 9, 2008, FREIT’s Board of Trustees authorized up to $2 million for the repurchase of FREIT’s shares of beneficial interest. The share repurchase plan provides for the repurchase of FREIT shares on or before March 31, 2009.
(2)
Share repurchases under this program may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on the price of FREIT shares and other market conditions. This share repurchase program may be limited or terminated at any time and without prior notice.
(3)
Rule 10b5-1 permits the implementation of a written plan for repurchasing shares of company stock at times when the issuer is not in possession of material, nonpublic information and allows issuers adopting such plans to repurchase shares on a regular basis, regardless of any repurchases to be effected through FREIT’s repurchasing agent, Hill, Thompson, Magid & Co., Inc., pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the share repurchase plan, which has been established in accordance with applicable regulations.
(4)
As of October 31, 2008, FREIT repurchased 46,720 shares at a cost of $1,075,000, which is reflected in the Shareholders’ Equity section of FREIT’s balance sheet.
Dividends
The holders of Shares are entitled to receive distributions as may be declared by FREIT’s Board of Trustees. Dividends may be declared from time to time by the Board of Trustees and may be paid in cash, property, or Shares. The Board of Trustees’ present policy is to distribute annually at least ninety percent (90%) of FREIT’s REIT taxable income as dividends to the holders of Shares in order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. Distributions are made on a quarterly basis. In Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, FREIT paid or declared aggregate total dividends of $1.20 and $1.30 per share, respectively, to the holders of shares. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Distributions to Shareholders.”
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans
Refer to “Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.”
ITEM
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The selected consolidated financial data for FREIT for each of the five (5) fiscal years in the period ended October 31, 2008 are derived from financial statements herein or previously filed financial statements. This data should be read in conjunction with “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report and with FREIT’s consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report.
* Includes gain on disposal of $3,680 and $12,681 in fiscal years 2007 and 2004 respectively.
ITEM 7
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Cautionary Statement Identifying Important Factors That Could Cause FREIT’s Actual Results to Differ From Those Projected in Forward Looking Statements.
Readers of this discussion are advised that the discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of FREIT (including related notes thereto) appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Certain statements in this discussion may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect FREIT’s current expectations regarding future results of operations, economic performance, financial condition and achievements of FREIT, and do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. FREIT has tried, wherever possible, to identify these forward-looking statements by using words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend, “ “plan,” “ estimate,” or words of similar meaning.
Although FREIT believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those projected. Such factors include, but are not limited to the following: general economic and business conditions, which will, among other things, affect demand for rental space, the availability of prospective tenants, lease rents, the financial condition of tenants and the default rate on leases, operating and administrative expenses and the availability of financing; adverse changes in FREIT’s real estate markets, including, among other things, competition with other real estate owners, competition confronted by tenants at FREIT’s commercial properties, governmental actions and initiatives; environmental/safety requirements; and risks of real estate development and acquisitions. The risks with respect to the development of real estate include: increased construction costs, inability to obtain construction financing, or unfavorable terms of financing that may be available, unforeseen construction delays and the failure to complete construction within budget.
Overview
FREIT is an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") that owns a portfolio of residential apartment and commercial properties. Our revenues consist primarily of fixed rental income from our residential and commercial properties and additional rent in the form of expense reimbursements derived from our income producing commercial properties. Our properties are primarily located in northern New Jersey and Maryland. We acquire existing properties for investment. We also acquire properties, which we feel have redevelopment potential, and make changes and capital improvements to these properties. We develop and construct properties on our vacant land. Our policy is to acquire and develop real property for long-term investment.
The global economic and financial crisis:
The current extraordinary and unprecedented bank liquidity and credit market crisis has exacerbated an already weakened economic climate resulting in a deep U.S. and worldwide recession. Continued concern about energy costs, inflation, cost and availability of credit, and increasing unemployment have resulted in an unprecedented lack of confidence by consumers and businesses. It is expected that this poor economic climate will continue, until at least mid 2009, and possibly longer.
This economic and financial crisis has affected, and will continue to affect FREIT in a number of ways:
Residential Properties: While the occupancy at our residential properties remains high, we are beginning to experience resistance to rent increases, granting concessions, a higher number of move-outs and higher than usual incidences of late or defaulted monthly rental payments. We expect this trend to continue through 2009 and result in residential revenues to be flat or slightly lower than during fiscal 2008.
Commercial Properties: Because of reduced consumer spending resulting in lower profitability, commercial tenants, large and small, are requesting rent reductions, or lower renewal option rents. To date we have experienced little fall-out. However, we expect to see a fall out of some smaller tenants, and if the recession is prolonged, some larger tenants. We expect releasing vacated space to take longer and, generally, at lower rents that reflect current economic conditions. Again, we expect revenues at our commercial properties to be flat or slightly lower during fiscal 2009 than during fiscal 2008.
Development Projects and Capital Expenditures: We plan to significantly reduce capital expenditures during fiscal 2009 compared to prior years by concentrating only on those capital expenditures that are absolutely necessary. We continue to pursue the completion of the development and construction activities started at our Damascus Shopping Center in Damascus, MD. Because of reduced demand from residential rental tenants and buyers, curtailed business expansion, and the current state of the credit markets, no date has been determined for the commencement of construction at our Rotunda and South Brunswick projects.
Debt Financing Availability: The dislocations in the credit markets have caused significant price volatility and liquidity disruptions. High pricing spreads and very conservative debt service ratio requirements have made certain financing unattractive, and in certain instances, unavailable. Additionally, construction financing for large, mixed use projects is virtually unavailable, or too costly. As a result of this difficult financing environment and reduced end user demand (see above) FREIT has elected to postpone its development activities at its Rotunda Project.
FREIT’s one refinancing requirement coming due during fiscal 2009, is its $22.5 million acquisition loan at its Rotunda project. FREIT is exploring the extension of the loan’s maturity date or replacement of the loan.
Operating Cash Flow and Dividend Distributions: FREIT’s cash position remains strong. We expect that cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to cover mandatory debt service payments, necessary capital improvements and dividends necessary to retain qualification as a REIT. Additionally, FREIT has embarked on an extraordinary program to reduce operating expenses across the board to increase cash flow. Because of the current economic crisis, FREIT’s Board of Trustees elected to reduce fiscal 2008 dividends to $1.20 per share from $1.30 per share payable for fiscal 2007. Additionally, it is FREIT’s intention to maintain its quarterly dividend a $.30 per share until the economic climate indicates a change is appropriate.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") disclosure guidance for "Critical Accounting Policies," the SEC defines Critical Accounting Policies as those that require the application of Management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, the preparation of which takes into account estimates based on judgments and assumptions that affect certain amounts and disclosures. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The accounting policies and estimates used, which are outlined in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements which is presented elsewhere in this Form 10-K, have been applied consistently as at October 31, 2008 and 2007, and for the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. We believe that the following accounting policies or estimates require the application of Management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments:
Revenue Recognition: Base rents, additional rents based on tenants' sales volume and reimbursement of the tenants' share of certain operating expenses are generally recognized when due from tenants. The straight-line basis is used to recognize base rents under leases if they provide for varying rents over the lease terms. Straight-line rents represent unbilled rents receivable to the extent straight-line rents exceed current rents billed in accordance with lease agreements. Before FREIT can recognize revenue, it is required to assess, among other things, its collectibility. If we incorrectly determine the collectibility of revenue, our net income and assets could be overstated.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets: We periodically assess the carrying value of long-lived assets whenever we determine that events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. When FREIT determines that the carrying value of long-lived assets may be impaired, the measurement of any impairment is based on a projected discounted cash flow method determined by FREIT's management. While we believe that our discounted cash flow methods are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash flows may significantly affect the measurement of impairment.
In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 requires the reporting of discontinued operations to include components of an entity that have either been disposed of or are classified as held for sale. FREIT has adopted SFAS No. 144. During 2007, FREIT sold its Lakewood, NJ property. FREIT has reclassified the net income (loss) from the operation of this property as Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. The adoption of SFAS No. 144 did not have an impact on net income, but only impacted the presentation of this property within the consolidated statements of income. The results of this reclassification can be seen in "Item 6 Selected Financial Data" above and in the Consolidated Financial Statements of FREIT (including related notes thereto) appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
Since we consider net income from continuing operations to be the most significant element of net income, all references and comparisons refer to this item unless otherwise stated. All references to per share amounts are on a diluted basis (unless otherwise indicated), and refer to earnings per share from continuing operations and have been adjusted to reflect the one-for-one share dividends paid in October 2001 and March 2004.
Results of Operations:
Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2008 and 2007
Summary revenues and net income for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2008 (“Fiscal 2008”) and October 31, 2007 (“Fiscal 2007”) are as follows:
Revenue for Fiscal 2008 increased 3.9% to $42,340,000 compared to $40,738,000 for Fiscal 2007. The favorable increase in revenues was attributable to both of FREIT’s real estate segments, with the commercial segment contributing 65% of the increase, and the residential segment contributing 35% of the increase.
During the 3rd quarter of Fiscal 2007, FREIT sold its Lakewood Apartments in Lakewood, New Jersey. In compliance with current accounting guidance, the gain on the sale, as well as the current and prior year’s earnings of the Lakewood operation are classified as “Income from discontinued operations”, which is included within “Net Income” after “Income from continuing operations”. (See Note 3 for a further discussion of the sale.) Net income for Fiscal 2008 was $6,039,000 ($0.88 diluted) compared to $8,943,000 ($1.29 diluted) for the prior year. Income from continuing operations for Fiscal 2008 was $6,039,000 ($0.88 diluted) compared to $5,172,000 ($0.74 diluted) for the prior year.
The schedule below provides a detailed analysis of the major changes that impacted revenue and net income for Fiscal 2008 and 2007:
SEGMENT INFORMATION
The following table sets forth comparative operating data for FREIT’s real estate segments:
The above table details the comparative net operating income (“NOI”) for FREIT’s Commercial and Residential Segments, and reconciles the combined NOI to consolidated Net Income. NOI is based on operating revenue and expenses directly associated with the operations of the real estate properties, but excludes deferred rents (straight lining), lease amortization, depreciation and financing costs. FREIT assesses and measures segment operating results based on NOI. NOI is not a measure of operating results or cash flow as measured by generally accepted accounting principles, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.
COMMERCIAL SEGMENT
The commercial segment contained ten (10) separate properties during Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007. Seven are multi-tenanted retail or office centers, and one is a single tenanted store. In addition, FREIT owns land in Rockaway, NJ and Rochelle Park, NJ from which it receives monthly rental income. The Rockaway land is leased to a tenant who has built and operates a bank branch on the land. In Rochelle Park, FREIT leases the land to a tenant who plans to build and operate a bank branch on the land.
Revenue and NOI from FREIT’s commercial segment for Fiscal 2008 increased $1.3 million (6.1%) and $1.1 million (8.6%), respectively, over Fiscal 2007. The primary reasons for the increase in revenue and NOI, not including Damascus, were higher occupancy levels at Westridge Square, Westwood Plaza and The Rotunda, a full-year’s revenue with respect to FREIT’s Rochelle Park land lease and an increase in reimbursable operating expenses over last year, specifically at The Rotunda. The increase in revenue and NOI was tempered slightly by the effect of the anticipated planned renovation at our Damascus Shopping Center (the “Damascus Center”), which caused a temporary decline in occupancy levels (see discussion below). Average occupancy rates for FREIT’s commercial segment for Fiscal 2008 was at 95.1%, exclusive of the Damascus Center, compared to 94.6% for Fiscal 2007. Occupancy rates for the Damascus Center decreased to 47.7% for Fiscal 2008 from 55.9% for Fiscal 2007.
The impact of this renovation on the year-to-date results of the commercial segment is reflected in the following table:
Revenues and NOI for same properties increased 6% and 8% respectively for Fiscal 2008 over Fiscal 2007.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
A modernization and expansion is underway at our Damascus Center in Damascus, MD (owned by our 70% owned affiliate, Damascus Centre, LLC). Total construction costs are expected to approximate $21.9 million. The building plans incorporate an expansion of retail space from its current configuration of approximately 140,000 sq. ft. to approximately 150,000 sq. ft., which will be anchored by a modern 58,000 sq. ft. Safeway supermarket. Building plans for Phase I have been approved and construction on Phase I began in June 2007, and was completed in June 2008. Phase I construction costs were approximately $6.2 million, of which $1.1 million related to tenant improvements. On February 12, 2008, Damascus Centre, LLC closed on a $27.3 million construction loan that is available to fund already expended and future construction costs. This loan will be drawn upon as needed. As of October 31, 2008, Damascus drew down $5.1 million of this loan to cover construction costs. (See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding this loan.) Because of this expansion, leases for certain tenants have been allowed to expire and not renewed. This has caused occupancy to decline, on a temporary basis, during the construction phase.
Development plans and studies for the expansion and renovation of our Rotunda property in Baltimore, MD (owned by our 60% owned affiliate Grande Rotunda, LLC) have been completed during Fiscal 2008. The Rotunda property, on an 11.5-acre site, currently consists of an office building containing 138,000 sq. ft. of office space and 78,000 sq. ft. of retail space on the lower floor of the main building. The building plans incorporate an expansion of approximately 180,500 sq. ft. of retail space, approximately 302 residential rental apartments, 56 condominium units and 120 hotel rooms, and structured parking. Development costs for this project are expected to approximate $200 million. City Planning Board approval has been received. As of October 31, 2008, we have expended approximately $5.0 million for planning and feasibility studies. Due to the current economic and credit crisis, the start date for the construction has not yet been determined.
RESIDENTIAL SEGMENT
During Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, FREIT operated nine (9) multi-family apartment communities totaling 1,075 apartment units, excluding the Lakewood property that was sold during Fiscal 2007. (See Note 3 for a further discussion of the sale.)
During Fiscal 2008 revenues increased $565,000 (3.0%) to $19,191,000 and NOI increased $438,000 (4.1%) to $11,012,000 over Fiscal 2007. The favorable results at FREIT’s residential segment for Fiscal 2008 was primarily attributable to the contribution made by The Boulders, which accounted for 57% and 50% of the increase in revenues and NOI, respectively. Average occupancy rates for FREIT’s residential segment for Fiscal 2008 and 2007 was level at 95%. However, average occupancy at The Boulders increased to 97% for Fiscal 2008, compared to 88% for last year’s comparable period.
The occupancy at our residential properties remains high. However, due to the current economic crisis causing high unemployment in our areas of operation, we are experiencing resistance to rent increases, granting concessions, a higher number of move-outs and higher than usual incidences of late or defaulted monthly rental payments. We expect this trend to continue through 2009 and result in residential revenues to be flat or slightly lower than during Fiscal 2008.
Our residential revenue is principally composed of monthly apartment rental income. Total rental income is a factor of occupancy and monthly apartment rents. A 1% decline in annual average occupancy, or a 1% decline in average rents from current levels, results in an annual revenue decline of approximately $200,000 and $188,000 respectively.
Capital expenditures: During Fiscal 2008 we expended $424,000 ($626 per apartment unit) excluding The Pierre and the newly constructed Boulders. Since our apartment communities were constructed more than 25 years ago, we tend to spend more in any given year on maintenance and capital improvements than may be spent on newer properties.
At The Pierre, a major renovation program is ongoing. We are in the process of modernizing, where required, all apartments and some of the building’s mechanical services. This renovation is expected to cost approximately $3 - $4 million and apartments are to be renovated as they become temporarily vacant, over the next several years. These costs will be financed from operating cash flow and cash reserves. Through October 31, 2008, we expended approximately $2.9 million in capital improvements at The Pierre, including approximately $205,000 during Fiscal 2008.
NET INVESTMENT INCOME
Net investment income decreased 13% to $554,000 during Fiscal 2008 from $634,000 in Fiscal 2007. Net investment income is principally derived from interest earned from cash on deposit in institutional money market funds and interest earned from secured loans receivable (loans made to Hekemian employees, including certain members of the immediate family of Robert S. Hekemian, FREIT CEO and Chairman of the Board and Robert S. Hekemian, Jr., a trustee of FREIT, for their equity investment in Grande Rotunda, LLC, a limited liability company, in which FREIT owns a 60% equity interest and Damascus Centre, LLC, a limited liability company, in which FREIT owns a 70% equity interest). The decrease in net investment income for the current year was primarily attributable to lower interest income on the Company’s investments, due in part to lower interest rates and a decrease in the level of investable cash for Fiscal 2008, as funds were used for construction and development activities. Slightly offsetting the decrease in investment income was increased interest income relative to secured loans made to Hekemian employees in connection with the sale of equity interests in the Rotunda and the Damascus Center.
FINANCING COSTS
Financing costs are summarized as follows:
Financing costs for Fiscal 2008 decreased by $340,000 (2.9%) compared to Fiscal 2007. The principal reasons for the decrease were attributable to lower interest rates relative to The Rotunda acquisition loan of $22.5 million, which bears a floating interest rate, coupled with an increase in capitalized interest related to ongoing capital projects. Lower interest rates over the course of the last year decreased the level of interest expense for The Rotunda by $382,000, to $1,198,000 for Fiscal 2008.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
General and administrative expenses (“G&A”) for Fiscal 2008 were $1,542,000, level with Fiscal 2007. The primary components of G&A are accounting & professional fees and Trustees fees, which, in the aggregate, comprise 77% of total G&A.
DEPRECIATION
Depreciation expense in Fiscal 2008 increased $311,000 (5.9%) to $5,622,000 from $5,311,000 for Fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to depreciation related to the June 2008 completion of Phase I of the Damascus Centre redevelopment project, in addition to capital improvements at FREIT’s Westridge Square Shopping Center in Frederick, MD.
Results of Operations:
Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2007 and 2006
Summary revenues and net income for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2007 (“Fiscal 2007”) and October 31, 2006 (“Fiscal 2006”) are as follows:
Revenue for Fiscal 2007 increased 7.5% to $40,738,000 compared to $37,893,000 for Fiscal 2006. The increase in real estate revenues was principally attributable to FREIT’s residential operations, primarily at The Boulders in Rockaway Township, NJ, which accounted for 69.2% of the increase in revenues.
Net income for Fiscal 2007 was $8,943,000 ($1.29 diluted) compared to $5,158,000 ($0.76 diluted) for the prior year. Income from continuing operations for Fiscal 2007 was $5,172,000 ($0.74 diluted) compared to $4,995,000 ($0.73 diluted) for the prior year. The schedule below provides a detailed analysis of the major changes that impacted revenue and net income for Fiscal 2007 and 2006:
SEGMENT INFORMATION
The following table sets forth comparative operating data for FREIT’s real estate segments:
The above table details the comparative net operating income (“NOI”) for FREIT’s Commercial and Residential Segments, and reconciles the combined NOI to consolidated Net Income. NOI is based on operating revenue and expenses directly associated with the operations of the real estate properties, but excludes deferred rents (straight lining), lease amortization, depreciation and financing costs. FREIT assesses and measures segment operating results based on NOI. NOI is not a measure of operating results or cash flow as measured by generally accepted accounting principles, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.
COMMERCIAL SEGMENT
The commercial segment contained ten (10) separate properties during Fiscal 2007 and nine (9) separate properties during Fiscal 2006. Revenue and NOI from FREIT’s commercial segment for Fiscal 2007 increased $419,000 (2.0%) and $262,000 (2.1%), respectively, over Fiscal 2006. The primary reasons for the increase in revenue and NOI, not including Damascus, were higher occupancy levels and a decrease in operating expense over last year, specifically leasing commissions at The Rotunda. The increase in revenue and NOI was tempered slightly by the adverse effect of the anticipated planned renovation at our Damascus Shopping Center (the “Damascus Center”), which caused a temporary decline in occupancy levels (see discussion below). Average occupancy rates for FREIT’s commercial segment for Fiscal 2007 was at 94.6%, exclusive of the Damascus Center, compared to 93.0% for Fiscal 2006. Occupancy rates for the Damascus Center decreased to 55.9% for Fiscal 2007 from 68.6% for Fiscal 2006.
The impact of this renovation on the year-to-date results of the commercial segment is reflected in the following table:
Revenues and NOI for same properties increased 4% and 5% respectively for Fiscal 2007 over Fiscal 2006.
RESIDENTIAL SEGMENT
During Fiscal 2007, FREIT operated nine (9) multi-family apartment communities totaling 1,075 apartment units, not including the Lakewood property. During the latter part of June 2006, tenants began taking occupancy at completed buildings at FREIT’s 129-unit Rockaway, NJ project, The Boulders, which had been under construction. Fiscal 2007 was the first full year of operation for The Boulders.
During Fiscal 2007 revenues increased $2,659,000 (16.7%) to $18,626,000 and NOI increased $1,801,000 (20.5%) to $10,574,000 over Fiscal 2006. The favorable results at FREIT’s residential segment for Fiscal 2007 were primarily attributable to the contribution made by The Boulders, in addition to a combination of higher occupancy levels and higher rents.
The contribution made by The Boulders, to revenues and NOI during Fiscal 2007 and 2006 is reflected in the following table:
Our residential revenue is principally composed of monthly apartment rental income. Total rental income is a factor of occupancy and monthly apartment rents. A 1% decline in annual average occupancy, or a 1% decline in average rents from current levels, results in an annual revenue decline of approximately $197,000 and $187,000 respectively.
Capital expenditures: During Fiscal 2007 we expended $460,000 ($679 per apartment unit) excluding The Pierre and the newly constructed Boulders. Since our apartment communities were constructed more than 25 years ago, we tend to spend more in any given year on maintenance and capital improvements than may be spent on newer properties.
NET INVESTMENT INCOME
Net investment income increased 173% to $634,000 during Fiscal 2007 from $232,000 in Fiscal 2006. Net investment income is principally derived from interest earned from cash on deposit in institutional money market funds and interest earned from secured loans receivable. The increase in net investment income for the current year was primarily attributable to higher interest income for the current year due to higher interest rates on the Company’s investments, coupled with interest income relative to the secured loans made to Hekemian employees in connection with the sale of an equity interest in the Damascus Center, effective October 31, 2006.
FINANCING COSTS
Financing costs are summarized as follows:
Financing costs for Fiscal 2007 increased by $770,000 (6.9%) compared to Fiscal 2006. The principal reasons for the increase were due to increased financing levels at The Boulders (construction and permanent loans) resulting in an increase in financing costs of $1,108,000 for Fiscal 2007, coupled with higher interest rates relative to The Rotunda acquisition loan of $22.5 million, which bears a floating interest rate. Higher interest rates over the course of the last year raised the level of interest expense for The Rotunda by $120,000, to $1,580,000 for Fiscal 2007.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Our general and administrative expenses increased $331,000 (27.3%) to $1,543,000 for Fiscal 2007 from $1,212,000 for Fiscal 2006. The increases for Fiscal 2007 were primarily attributable to increases in accounting and auditing fees of $315,000.
DEPRECIATION
Depreciation expense in Fiscal 2007 increased $585,000 (12.4%) to $5,311,000 from $4,726,000 for Fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily attributable to depreciation related to The Boulders property, completed in August 2006.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our financial condition remains strong. Net cash provided by operating activities was $13.8 million for Fiscal 2008 compared to $11.8 million for Fiscal 2007. We expect that cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to cover mandatory debt service payments, recurring capital improvements and dividends necessary to retain qualification as a REIT (90% of taxable income).
As at October 31, 2008, we had cash and marketable securities totaling $8.2 million compared to $12.7 million at October 31, 2007.
We have begun the rebuilding of the Damascus Shopping Center, in Damascus, MD. The total capital required for this project is estimated at $21.9 million. On February 12, 2008, Damascus Centre, LLC (“Damascus Centre”) closed on a $27.3 million construction loan that is available to fund already expended and future construction costs. This loan has a term of forty-eight (48) months, with one twelve (12) month extension option. FREIT has guaranteed 30% of the loan, and the minority interests, who have a 30% investment in the Damascus Centre, have agreed to indemnify FREIT for their share of the guarantee. Draws against this loan bear interest at the BBA LIBOR daily floating rate plus 135 basis points. As of October 31, 2008, Damascus drew down $5.1 million of this loan to cover construction costs. We expect this development project to add to revenues, income, cash flow, and shareholder value.
We are planning a major expansion at The Rotunda in Baltimore, MD that will require capital estimated at $200 million. We expect financing for the Rotunda will be, for the most part, from mortgage financing. During Fiscal 2008 we’ve substantially completed the planning and feasibility studies and have expended approximately $5.0 million during this phase, which adds to the value of our property. Due to the current economic crisis and liquidity and credit crunch, no date for the commencement of construction has been determined.
As at October 31, 2008, FREIT’s aggregate outstanding mortgage debt was $192.4 million. This debt bears a fixed weighted average interest rate of 5.87%. The fixed rate mortgages, which have an average life of approximately 5.62 years, are subject to repayment (amortization) schedules that are longer than the term of the mortgages. As such, balloon payments for all mortgage debt will be required as follows:
Our Rotunda acquisition loan of $22.5 million matures in July 2009. FREIT is exploring the extension of the loan’s maturity date or replacement of the loan.
The following table shows the estimated fair value and carrying value of our long-term debt at October 31, 2008 and 2007:
Fair values are estimated based on market interest rates at the end of each fiscal year and on discounted cash flow analysis. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods may significantly affect these fair value estimates.
FREIT expects to re-finance the individual mortgages with new mortgages when their terms expire. To this extent we have exposure to interest rate risk on our fixed rate debt obligations. If interest rates, at the time any individual mortgage note is due, are higher than the current fixed interest rate, higher debt service may be required, and/or re-financing proceeds may be less than the amount of mortgage debt being retired. For example, a 1% interest rate increase would reduce the fair value of our debt by $9.5 million, and a 1% decrease would increase the fair value by $10.3 million.
We believe that the values of our properties will be adequate to command re-financing proceeds equal to, or higher than, the mortgage debt to be re-financed. We continually review our debt levels to determine if additional debt can prudently be utilized for property acquisition additions to our real estate portfolio that will increase income and cash flow to shareholders.
Credit Line: FREIT has an $18 million line of credit provided by the Provident Bank. The line of credit is for a two year term ending in January 2010, but can be cancelled by the bank, at its will, at each anniversary date. Draws against the credit line can be used for general corporate purposes, for property acquisitions, construction activities, and letters of credit. Draws against the credit line are secured by mortgages on FREIT’s Franklin Crossing Shopping Center, Franklin Lakes, NJ, retail space in Glen Rock, NJ, Palisades Manor Apartments, Palisades Park, NJ, and Grandview Apartments, Hasbrouck Heights, NJ. Interest rates on draws will be set at the time of each draw for 30, 60, or 90-day periods, based on our choice of the prime rate or at 175 basis points over the 30, 60, or 90-day LIBOR rates at the time of the draws.
In connection with its construction activities in Rockaway, NJ, FREIT utilized the credit line for the issuance of a $384,000 Letter of Credit. As of October 31, 2008, approximately $17.6 million is available under the line of credit.
Interest rate swap contract: To reduce interest rate volatility, FREIT had used “pay fixed, receive floating” interest rate swaps to convert floating interest rates to fixed interest rates over the terms of certain loans. We entered into these swap contracts with a counterparty that is usually a high-quality commercial bank.
FREIT had a variable interest rate mortgage securing its Patchogue, NY property. To reduce interest rate fluctuations FREIT entered into an interest rate swap contract. This rate swap contract effectively converted variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
This variable rate mortgage loan came due on January 2, 2008. The due date of the loan was extended to February 29, 2008. On February 29, 2008, the unpaid principal amount of this loan of approximately $5.9 million was refinanced with a $6 million mortgage loan bearing a fixed interest rate of 6.125%, with a ten (10) year term, and payable according to a thirty (30) year amortization schedule. Under the terms of the mortgage loan agreement, FREIT can request, during the term of the loan, additional fundings that will bring the outstanding principal balance up to 75% of loan-to-value (percentage of mortgage loan to total appraised value of property securing the loan).
FREIT’s total capital commitments represent obligations under its mortgage loan and construction contracts as follows:
Share repurchase program:
On April 9, 2008, FREIT’s Board of Trustees authorized up to $2 million for the repurchase of FREIT shares commencing three (3) days after the announcement of its operating results for the quarter ended April 30, 2008. Share repurchases under this program may be made from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, depending on trading prices of FREIT shares and other market conditions. This share repurchase program may be limited or terminated atany time and without prior notice. As of October 31, 2008, FREIT repurchased 46,720 shares of common stock at a cost of $1,075,000, which is reflected in the Stockholders’ Equity section of FREIT’s balance sheet.
Funds From Operations (“FFO”)
Many consider FFO as the standard measurement of a REIT’s performance. We compute FFO as follows:
FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and therefore should not be considered a substitute for net income as a measure of results of operations or for cash flow from operations as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, the application and calculation of FFO by certain other REITs may vary materially from that of FREIT’s, and therefore FREIT’s FFO and the FFO of other REITs may not be directly comparable.
Distributions to Shareholders
Since its inception in 1961, FREIT has elected to be treated as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of highly technical and complex operational requirements including that we must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. We anticipate making distributions to shareholders from operating cash flows, which are expected to increase from future growth in rental revenues. Although cash used to make distributions reduces amounts available for capital investment, we generally intend to distribute not less than the minimum of REIT taxable income necessary to satisfy the applicable REIT requirement as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. With respect to the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, the reduction of the tax rate on dividends does not apply to FREIT dividends. Since it is FREIT’s policy to pass on at least 90% of its taxable income to shareholders, FREIT’s taxable income is untaxed at the trust level. As a result, FREIT’s dividends will be taxed as ordinary income.
It has been our policy to pay fixed quarterly dividends for the first three quarters of each fiscal year, and a final fourth quarter dividend based on the fiscal year’s net income and taxable income. The following tables list the quarterly dividends paid or declared for the three most recent fiscal years and the dividends as a percentage of taxable income for those periods.
INFLATION
Inflation can impact the financial performance of FREIT in various ways. Our commercial tenant leases normally provide that the tenants bear all or a portion of most operating expenses, which can reduce the impact of inflationary increases on FREIT. Apartment leases are normally for a one-year term, which may allow us to seek increased rents as leases renew or when new tenants are obtained.
* * *
ITEM 7A
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Commercial and Residential Segment” in Item 7 above.
ITEM 8
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The consolidated financial statements and supplementary data of FREIT are submitted as a separate section of this Form 10-K. See "Index to Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 37 of this Form 10-K.
ITEM 9
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
At the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of FREIT’s disclosure controls and procedures. This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with participation of FREIT’s management, including FREIT’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who concluded that FREIT’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There have been no significant changes in FREIT’s internal controls or in other factors, which could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date we carried out our evaluation.
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in FREIT’s reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in FREIT’s reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including FREIT’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting - FREIT’s management, under the supervision of FREIT’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Management evaluated the effectiveness of FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, management has concluded that FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2008.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting - FREIT’s management, with the participation of FREIT’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated whether any change in FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting occurred during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008. Based on that evaluation, management concluded that there has been no change in FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION
None.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Trustees and Shareholders
First Real Estate Investment Trust of New Jersey and Subsidiaries
We have audited First Real Estate Investment Trust of New Jersey and Subsidiaries’ (“FREIT”) internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). FREIT’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, FREIT maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of FREIT as of October 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income and undistributed earnings and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2008 and financial statement schedule, and our report dated January 9, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
/s/ Eisner LLP
New York, NY
January 9, 2009
PART III
Certain information required by Part III is incorporated by reference to FREIT's definitive proxy statement (the "Proxy Statement") to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of FREIT's fiscal year covered by this Annual Report. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically address the items set forth in this Annual Report are incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement into this Annual Report.
ITEM 10
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information concerning FREIT's trustees required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections titled "Election of Trustees" and "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act" in FREIT's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting to be held in April 2009.
ITEM 11
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information pertaining to executive compensation required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section titled "Election of Trustees - Executive Compensation" in FREIT's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting to be held in April 2009.
ITEM 12
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section titled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in FREIT's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting to be held in April 2009.
ITEM 13
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section titled "Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions" in FREIT's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting to be held in April 2009.
ITEM 14
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required in response to this item is incorporated by reference to the sections titled “Audit Fees,” “Audit-Related Fees,” “ Tax Fees” and “All Other Fees” contained in FREIT’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting to be held in April 2009.
PART IV
ITEM 15:
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
(a) Financial Statements:
Page
(i) Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm of Eisner LLP
(ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2008 and
(iii) Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, and Undistributed Earnings for the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and
(iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
(v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(b) Exhibits:
See Index to Exhibits.
(c) Financial Statement Schedule:
(i) XI - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation.
56/57
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, FREIT has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Trustees and Shareholders
First Real Estate Investment Trust of New Jersey and Subsidiaries
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of First Real Estate Investment Trust of New Jersey and Subsidiaries (“FREIT”) as of October 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income and undistributed earnings and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15(c). These consolidated financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of FREIT's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements enumerated above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of FREIT as of October 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of their operations and their consolidated cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the referred financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information stated therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), FREIT’s internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated January 9, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Eisner LLP
New York, NY
January 9, 2009
FIRST REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST OF NEW JERSEY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2008, 2007 AND
FIRST REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST OF NEW JERSEY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 - Organization and significant accounting policies:
Organization:
First Real Estate Investment Trust of New Jersey ("FREIT") was organized November 1, 1961 as a New Jersey Business Trust. FREIT is engaged in owning residential and commercial income producing properties located primarily in New Jersey, Maryland and New York.
FREIT has elected to be taxed as a Real Estate Investment Trust under the provisions of Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended. Accordingly, FREIT does not pay federal income tax on income whenever income distributed to shareholders is equal to at least 90% of real estate investment trust taxable income. Further, FREIT pays no federal income tax on capital gains distributed to shareholders.
FREIT is subject to federal income tax on undistributed taxable income and capital gains. FREIT may make an annual election under Section 858 of the Internal Revenue Code to apply part of the regular dividends paid in each respective subsequent year as a distribution for the immediately preceding year.
Principles of consolidation:
In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued revised FIN 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51.” (“FIN 46R”). FIN 46R requires the consolidation of certain entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entity’s expected losses, receives a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity (variable interest entities, or “VIEs”). Entities are generally consolidated by an enterprise when it has a controlling financial interest through ownership of a majority voting interest in the entity. FIN 46R is applicable for financial statements of public entities that have interests in VIEs or potential VIEs referred to as special-purpose entities for periods ending after December 31, 2003.
In accordance with the definition of related parties as defined in paragraph 16 of FIN 46R and the guidance in paragraph 4h, it is the belief of the management of FREIT that FIN 46R is applicable to Westwood Hills, LLC and Wayne Preakness, LLC, both 40% owned by FREIT. Because of this determination, FREIT has consolidated these two entities in its consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FREIT and its following significant subsidiaries:
The consolidated financial statements include 100% of each subsidiary’s assets, liabilities, operations and cash flows with the interests not owned by FREIT reflected as "minority interest”. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of estimates:
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect certain reported amounts and disclosures. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and cash equivalents:
Financial instruments that potentially subject FREIT to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents. FREIT considers all highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. FREIT maintains its cash and cash equivalents in bank and other accounts, the balances of which, at times, may exceed Federally insured limits. During Fiscal 2008, Federally Insured limits were temporarily increased from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009. At October 31, 2008 and 2007, such cash and cash equivalent balances exceeded Federally insured limits by approximately $6.0 million and $10.5 million, respectively. Exposure to credit risk is reduced by placing such deposits with high credit quality financial institutions.
Depreciation:
Real estate and equipment are depreciated on the straight-line method by annual charges to operations calculated to absorb costs of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Impairment of long-lived assets:
Impairment losses on long-lived assets, such as real estate and equipment, are recognized when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by such assets are less than their carrying value and, accordingly, all or a portion of such carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are then measured by comparing the fair value of assets to their carrying amounts.
Deferred charges:
Deferred charges consist of mortgage costs and leasing commissions. Deferred mortgage costs are amortized on the straight-line method by annual charges to operations over the terms of the mortgages. Amortization of such costs is included in interest expense and approximated $371,000, $277,000 and $246,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Deferred leasing commissions are amortized on the straight-line method over the terms of the applicable leases.
Revenue recognition:
Income from leases is recognized on a straight-line basis regardless of when payment is due. Lease agreements between FREIT and commercial tenants generally provide for additional rentals based on such factors as percentage of tenants' sales in excess of specified volumes, increases in real estate taxes, Consumer Price Indices and common area maintenance charges. These additional rentals are generally included in income when reported to FREIT, when billed to tenants, or ratably over the appropriate period.
Interest rate swap contract:
FREIT utilizes derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk. FREIT does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. FREIT recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and measures those instruments at fair value. Changes in fair value of those instruments are reported in earnings or other comprehensive income depending on the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. The accounting for gains and losses associated with changes in the fair value of the derivative and the effect on the consolidated financial statements depends on its hedge designation and whether the hedge is highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of cash flows or the assets or liabilities hedged.
Advertising:
FREIT expenses the cost of advertising and promotions as incurred. Advertising costs charged to operations amounted to approximately $132,000, $109,000 and $115,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Stock-based compensation:
At October 31, 2008, FREIT has a stock-based employee compensation plan that was approved on September 10, 1998 by the Board of Trustees, which is described more fully in Note 10. Effective November 1, 2005, FREIT adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 (R), using the modified-prospective-transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost includes a cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of November 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of Statement 123, and compensation cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to November 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123 (R).
As all outstanding stock options were vested prior to November 1, 2005 and no stock options were granted during Fiscal 2006, the adoption of Statement 123 (R) had no effect on FREIT’s results of operations for the year ended October 31, 2006.
In accordance with the provisions of APB 25, prior to November 1, 2005, FREIT recognized compensation cost as a result of the issuance of stock options to employees, including directors, based on the excess, if any, of the fair value of the underlying shares at the date of grant or award (or at an appropriate subsequent measurement date) over the amount the employees must pay to acquire the shares (the “intrinsic value method”). However, FREIT did not recognize compensation cost as a result of any grants to employees at an exercise price that was equal to or greater than fair value. FREIT made proforma disclosures, as required by FASB Statement No. 123 and SFAS 148, of net income or loss as if a fair value based method of accounting for stock options had been applied if such amounts differed materially from the historical amounts.
All issuances of shares of beneficial interest, options or other equity instruments to nonemployees as the consideration for goods or services received by FREIT are accounted for based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued (unless the fair value of the consideration received can be more reliably measured). The fair value of any options or similar equity instruments issued is estimated based on option pricing models and the assumption that all of the options or other equity instruments will ultimately vest. Such fair value is measured as of an appropriate date pursuant to EITF Issue 96-18 (generally, the earlier of the date the other party becomes committed to provide the goods or services or the date performance by the other party is complete) and capitalized or expensed as if FREIT had paid cash for the goods or services.
Recent accounting pronouncements:
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN 48”), which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on our financial statements for the year ended October 31, 2008.
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This new standard does not require fair values to be used in any situations not already covered by GAAP; however, for some entities, the application of this standard will change current practice. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of SFAS 157 did not have a material impact on our financial statements for the year ended October 31, 2008.
In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” (“SFAS 159”). This new standard allows companies to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value, rather than at historic cost. The objective of SFAS 159 is to improve financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. Once the fair value option is elected, the decision is irrevocable. This statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS 159 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our financial statements.
On December 4, 2007, the FASB issued two new accounting standards, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, “Business Combinations” (“SFAS 141R”), and No. 160, “Non-Controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51” (“SFAS 160”). The standards are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and earlier adoption is prohibited.
·
The objective of SFAS 141R is to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness, and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about a business combination and its effects. To accomplish that, this Statement establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer:
(a)
Recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree;
(b)
Recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase;
(c)
Determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination.
·
The objective of SFAS 160 is to improve the relevance, comparability and transparency of financial information provided to investors by: (i) Requiring all entities to report non-controlling interests (minorityinterests) as equity in the consolidated financial statements and separate from the parent’s equity; (ii) Requiring that the amount of net income attributable to the parent and non-controlling interest be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of income; and (iii) Expanding the disclosure requirements with respect to the parent and its non-controlling interests.
The effect of the adoption of SFAS 141R will be dependent upon future acquisition activity, if any, of the Company.
Adoption of SFAS 160 will require separate presentation in the statement of undistributed earnings of the changes in the non-controlling members’ interests, as well as balance sheet presentation of such interests as a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity. When adopted, SFAS 160 requires retrospective application for all periods presented.
Reclassifications:
Certain accounts in the 2007 and 2006 consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (See Note 14.)
Note 2 - Minority Interests:
FREIT’s 40% owned subsidiary, Westwood Hills, LLC (“LLC”) had a capital deficit resulting from distributions to members, including proceeds received on refinancing the mortgage on the residential building owned by LLC. Prior to June 1, 2007, minority members were under no legal obligation to restore their share of the capital deficit, and as a result cash distributions made to minority members of LLC were charged to expense.
Effective June 1, 2007, the Operating Agreement of LLC was amended by a majority of the Members of LLC to require the Members to restore their negative capital accounts caused by any future losses, distributions from operations or net refinancing proceeds from the effective date of this amendment forward. As a result of this amendment, future minority interest distributions by LLC in excess of allocated income will be recorded as a receivable from minority members and no longer impact FREIT’s net income.
Note 3 - Dispositions and Acquisitions:
During fiscal 2005, FREIT’s 60% owned subsidiary, Grande Rotunda, LLC, completed the acquisition of The Rotunda, a mixed-use property in Baltimore, MD for $31 million, which was financed in part from an acquisition loan in the amount of $22.5 million, and the balance in cash. (See Notes 5 & 8)
It is FREIT’s policy that initial valuations are finalized, in accordance with the guidelines outlined in SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations”, no later than six months from the acquisition date. Accordingly, as of January 31, 2006, based on the above independent appraisal and FREIT’s evaluation of the acquired in-place leases, the purchase price was re-allocated as follows: approximately $15.8 million allocated to the building, $16.6 million to the land, $0.9 million to leases in place, $0.9 million to leases at above market rents, and approximately $3.3 million to leases at below market rents which was recorded as a liability.
The capitalized above-market lease values, classified as other assets, are being amortized as a reduction of base rental revenue over the remaining term of the leases, and the capitalized below-market lease values are being amortized as an increase to base rental revenue over the remaining terms of the leases, including renewal options. The value ascribed to leases in place, also classified as other assets, is being amortized over the weighted average remaining lease terms as calculated above.
On June 26, 2007, FREIT closed on its contract for the sale of the Lakewood Apartments in Lakewood, NJ. The sales price for the property was $4 million. The property was acquired in 1962 for approximately $407,000. For financial reporting purposes, FREIT recognized a gain of approximately $3.7 million from the sale. (See Note 14.)
On September 28, 2007, FREIT acquired three parcels of land in Rochelle Park, NJ totaling approximately one acre. The acquisition cost was approximately $2.5 million, of which $1.6 million relates to the land and $0.9 million relates to an advance to the Pascack Community Bank, the lessee, for construction of a bank branch on the site.
FREIT structured the Lakewood sale and the subsequent purchase of the land in Rochelle Park in a manner that would qualify as a like-kind exchange of real estate pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, which resulted in a deferral for income tax purposes of $1.6 million of the gain on the Lakewood sale. Since it is the intention of FREIT to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust, deferred tax would be minimal.
Note 4 - Real estate and equipment:
Real estate and equipment consists of the following:
Note 5 - Mortgages, notes payable and credit line:
(A)
Payable in monthly installments of interest only computed over the actual number of days in the elapsed monthly interest period at the rate of 5.55% through May 2017 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgage is secured by a retail building in Frederick, Maryland having a net book value of approximately $19,994,000.
(B)
Payable in monthly installments of $115,850 including interest at 5.37% through February 2022 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgage is secured by a residential building in Rockaway, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $20,029,000.
(C)
Payable in monthly installments of $73,248 including interest at 7.38% through February 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgage is secured by a retail building in Westwood, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $10,231,000.
(D)
Payable in monthly installments of $23,875 including interest at 6.70% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgage is secured by an apartment building in Spring Lake Heights, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $496,000.
(E)
Payable in monthly installments of $17,500 plus interest at the thirty-day LIBOR rate plus 200 basis points through March 2008. On February 29, 2008, the unpaid principal amount of this loan of approximately $5.9 million was refinanced with a $6 million mortgage loan bearing a fixed interest rate of 6.125%, with a ten (10) year term, and payable according to a thirty (30) year amortization schedule. Under the terms of the mortgage loan agreement, FREIT can request, during the term of the loan, additional fundings that will bring the outstanding principal balance up to 75% of loan-to-value (percentage of mortgage loan to total appraised value of property securing the loan). The mortgage is secured by a retail building in Patchogue, New York having a net book value of approximately $8,495,000.
(F)
The first mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $76,023 including interest at 7.29% through July 2010 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The second mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $20,878 including interest at 4.92% through July 2010 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgages are secured by an apartment building in Wayne, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $1,386,000.
(G)
The first mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $34,862 including interest at 6.75% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The second mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $12,318 including interest at 5.53% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgages are secured by an apartment building in River Edge, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $1,322,000.
(H)
The first mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $25,295 including interest at 6.75% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The second mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $8,739 including interest at 5.53% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgages are secured by an apartment building in Maywood, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $704,000.
(I)
The first mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $99,946 including interest at 6.693% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The second mortgage is payable in monthly installments of $21,954 including interest at 6.18% through December 2013 at which time the outstanding balance is due. The mortgages are secured by an apartment building in Westwood, New Jersey having a net book value of approximately $12,067,000.
(J)
Payable in monthly installments of interest only of $161,067 at the rate of 6.04% through June 2006, thereafter payable in monthly installments of $206,960 including interest until June 2016 at which time the unpaid balance is due. The mortgage is secured by a shopping center in Wayne, NJ having a net book value of approximately $30,941,000.
(K)
Payable in monthly installments of interest only of $152,994 at the rate of 5.38% through May 2009, thereafter payable in monthly installments of $191,197 including interest until May 2019 at which time the unpaid balance is due. The mortgage is secured by an apartment building in Hackensack, NJ having a net book value of approximately $43,885,000.
(L)
Acquisition loan to Grande Rotunda, LLC; payable in monthly installments of interest only. The interest rate varies from time-to-time based on the borrower’s election of 150 basis points over the various LIBOR rates, or the Lender’s prime rate. The loan was due on July 19, 2008, but was extended for one year to July 19, 2009. FREIT guarantees payment of up to 35% of the outstanding principal amount of the loan plus accrued interest if borrower defaults, however, Rotunda 100, LLC (a 40% joint venture partner in Grande Rotunda, LLC) has idemnified FREIT for up to 40% of any losses under its guaranty. The loan is secured by a mixed-use property in Baltimore, MD having a net book value of approximately $37,189,000.
(M)
On February 12, 2008, Damascus Second, LLC closed on a $27.3 million construction loan, secured by the shopping center owned by Damascus Centre, LLC located in Damascus, MD. This loan has a term of forty-eight (48) months, with one twelve (12) month extension option. Draws against this loan bear interest at a floating rate equal to 135 basis points over the BBA LIBOR daily floating rate. As of October 31, 2008, Damascus drew down $5.1 million of this loan to cover construction costs. FREIT guarantees 30% of the outstanding principal amount of the loan plus other costs, if borrower defaults, however, Damascus 100, LLC (a 30% joint venture parter in Damascus Centre, LLC) has idemnified FREIT for up to 30% of any losses under its guaranty. The shopping center securing the loan has a net book value of approximately $17,666,000.
The fair value of FREIT's long-term debt, which approximates $196.2 million and $188.7 million at October 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is estimated based on the current rates offered to FREIT for debt of the similar remaining maturities.
Principal amounts (in thousands of dollars) due under the above obligations in each of the five years subsequent to October 31, 2008 are as follows:
Credit Line: FREIT has an $18 million line of credit provided by the Provident Bank. The line of credit is for a two year term ending in January 2010, but can be cancelled by the bank, at its will, at each anniversary date. Draws against the credit line can be used for general corporate purposes, for property acquisitions, construction activities, and letters of credit. Draws against the credit line are secured by mortgages on FREIT’s Franklin Crossing Shopping Center, Franklin Lakes, NJ, retail space in Glen Rock, NJ, Palisades Manor Apartments, Palisades Park, NJ, and Grandview Apartments, Hasbrouck Heights, NJ. Interest rates on draws will be set at the time of each draw for 30, 60, or 90-day periods, based on our choice of the prime rate or at 175 basis points over the 30, 60, or 90-day LIBOR rates at the time of the draws.
In connection with its construction activities in Rockaway, NJ, FREIT utilized the credit line for the issuance of a $384,000 Letter of Credit. As of October 31, 2008, approximately $17.6 million is available under the line of credit.
Note 6 - Interest rate swap contract:
During November 2002, FREIT entered into an interest rate swap contract to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate mortgage secured by its Patchogue, NY property. The derivative financial instrument had a notional amount of approximately $5.9 million and a maturity date of March 2008. The swap contract effectively converted the variable rate to a fixed rate of 5.95%. In accordance with SFAS 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, FREIT marks to market its fixed pay interest rate swaps, taking into account present interest rates compared to the contracted fixed rate over the life of the contract. FREIT’s variable rate mortgage loan of approximately $5.9 million with a maturity date of January 2, 2008, was extended to February 29, 2008. However, the interest rate swap contract was terminated on January 2, 2008. As of October 31, 2007 and 2006, FREIT recorded the fair value of the swap, an asset of $14,000 and $87,000, respectively. Comprehensive income included losses related to the swap of $73,000 and $9,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively, which had been designated as a cash flow hedge. The variable interest rate mortgage was refinanced on February 29, 2008 with a $6 million mortgage loan bearing a fixed interest rate of 6.125%, with a ten (10) year term. Under the terms of the mortgage loan agreement, FREIT can request, during the term of the loan, additional fundings that will bring the outstanding principal balance up to 75% of loan-to-value (percentage of mortgage loan to total appraised value of property securing the loan).
Note 7 - Commitments and contingencies:
Leases:
Commercial tenants:
FREIT leases commercial space having a net book value of approximately $135.9 million at October 31, 2008 to tenants for periods of up to twenty-five years. Most of the leases contain clauses for reimbursement of real estate taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses of the properties.
Minimum rental income (in thousands of dollars) to be received from non-cancelable operating leases in years subsequent to October 31, 2008 is as follows:
The above amounts assume that all leases which expire are not renewed and, accordingly, neither minimal rentals nor rentals from replacement tenants are included.
Minimum future rentals do not include contingent rentals, which may be received under certain leases on the basis of percentage of reported tenants' sales volume or increases in Consumer Price Indices. Rental income that is contingent on future events is not included in income until the contingency is resolved. Contingent rentals included in income for each of the three years for the period ended October 31, 2008 were not material.
Residential tenants:
Lease terms for residential tenants are usually one year or less.
Environmental concerns:
In accordance with applicable regulations, FREIT reported to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection ("NJDEP") that a historical discharge of hazardous material was discovered in 1997 at the renovated Franklin Lakes shopping center (the "Center").
In November 1999, FREIT received a no further action letter from the NJDEP concerning the historical discharge at the Center. However, FREIT is required to continue monitoring such discharge, the cost of which will not be material.
Construction activities:
A modernization and expansion is underway at our Damascus Center in Damascus, MD (owned by our 70% owned affiliate, Damascus Centre, LLC). Total construction costs are expected to approximate $21.9 million. The building plans incorporate an expansion of retail space from its current configuration of approximately 140,000 sq. ft. to approximately 150,000 sq. ft., which will be anchored by a modern 58,000 sq. ft. Safeway supermarket. Building plans for Phase I have been approved and construction on Phase I began in June 2007, and was completed in June 2008. Phase I construction costs were approximately $6.2 million, of which $1.1 million related to tenant improvements. On February 12, 2008, Damascus Centre, LLC closed on a $27.3 million construction loan that is available to fund already expended and future construction costs. This loan will be drawn upon as needed. As of October 31, 2008, Damascus drew down $5.1 million of this loan to cover construction costs. Because of this expansion, leases for certain tenants have been allowed to expire and not renewed. This has caused occupancy to decline, on a temporary basis, during the construction phase.
Note 8 - Management agreement, fees and transactions with related party:
Hekemian & Co., Inc. (“Hekemian”) currently manages all the properties owned by FREIT, except for The Rotunda, which is managed by an independent third party management company. The management agreement with Hekemian, effective November 1, 2001, requires the payment of management fees equal to a percentage of rents collected. Such fees were approximately $1,708,000, $1,656,000 and $1,577,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, inclusive of $13,000 and $21,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively, included in discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. Total Hekemian management fees that were unpaid at October 31, 2008 and 2007 were $146,000 and $155,000, respectively. The agreement expires on October 31, 2009, and is automatically renewed for periods of two years unless either party gives notice of non-renewal.
Grande Rotunda, LLC (“Grande”) owns and operates The Rotunda, which is a mixed-use office and retail facility located in Baltimore, Maryland. FREIT owns a 60% equity interest in Grande, and Rotunda 100, LLC owns a 40% equity interest.
Damascus Centre, LLC (“Damascus”), owns and operates the Damascus Shopping Center in Damascus, Maryland. During fiscal 2005, FREIT’s Board of Trustees authorized an investor group, Damascus 100, LLC, to acquire a 30% equity interest in Damascus Centre, LLC. The sale price, based on the fair market value of the shopping center, reduced FREIT’s equity interest to 70%. The sale was completed on October 31, 2006, at a sales price of $3,224,000, of which FREIT financed approximately $1,451,000. The sale price was equivalent to the book value of the interest sold.
The equity owners of Rotunda 100, LLC, and Damascus 100, LLC are principally employees of Hekemian. To incentivize the employees of Hekemian, FREIT has agreed to advance, only to employees of Hekemian, up to 50% of the amount of the equity contributions that the Hekemian employees are required to invest in Rotunda 100, LLC and Damascus 100, LLC. These advances are in the form of secured loans that bear interest that will float at 225 basis points over the ninety (90) day LIBOR rate, as adjusted each November 1, February 1, May 1 and August 1. Interest only payments are required to be made quarterly. No principal payments are required during the term of the notes, except that the borrowers are required to pay to FREIT all refinancing proceeds and other cash flow they receive from their interests in Damascus and Grande. These payments shall be applied first to accrued and unpaid interest and then any outstanding principal. The notes mature at the earlier of (a) ten (10) years after issue (Grande - 6/19/2015, Damascus - 9/30/2016), or, (b) at the election of FREIT, ninety (90) days after the borrower terminates employment with Hekemian, at which time all outstanding unpaid principal is due. Outstanding balances at October 31, 2008 and 2007 were $3,326,000. On May 8, 2008, FREIT’s Board of Trustees approved amendments to the existing loan agreements with the Hekemian & Co. employees, relative to their interests in Rotunda 100, LLC, to increase the aggregate amount that FREIT may advance to such employees from $2 million to $4 million. No other terms of the loan agreements were amended.
From time to time, FREIT engages Hekemian to provide certain additional services, such as consulting services related to development and financing activities of FREIT. Separate fee arrangements are negotiated between Hekemian and FREIT with respect to such additional services. During the 4th quarter of Fiscal 2007, FREIT’s Board of Trustees approved development fee arrangements for The Rotunda and Damascus Center redevelopment projects, as well as the South Brunswick development project. In connection with the development activities at The Rotunda, agreements for the payments for development services to be provided by Hekemian Development Resources LLC (“Resources”) have been approved. With regards to the redevelopment activities at the Damascus Shopping Center, definitive contract agreements for the development services to be provided by Resources have been approved and executed. The development fee arrangement for The Rotunda provides for Resources to receive a fee equal to 6.375% of the total development costs of up to $136 million (as may be modified), and the fee for the redevelopment of the Damascus Shopping Center will be an amount equal to 7% of the redevelopment costs of up to approximately $17.3 million (as may be modified). As of October 31, 2008, FREIT incurred and paid to Resources fees of $1,000,000 and $750,000 for development activities at The Rotunda and Damascus Shopping Center, respectively. These fees have been capitalized and are included in Construction in Progress on FREIT’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 31, 2008. Resources, Rotunda 100, LLC, and Damascus 100, LLC are principally owned by employees of Hekemian, including certain members of the immediately family of Robert S. Hekemian, FREIT’s CEO and Chairman, and Robert S. Hekemian, Jr., a trustee of FREIT, and the members of the Hekemian family have majority management control of these entities. In connection with the development activities at South Brunswick, the fees with respect to this project are 7% of development costs of up to $21,000,000 (as may be modified). A definitive contract regarding the specific services to be provided at the South Brunswick project has not yet been finalized and approved. Development and acquisition fees and commissions charged to FREIT by Hekemian in connection with the sale of the Lakewood Apartments during fiscal 2007; the development and construction of The Boulders, Rockaway, NJ, during fiscal 2006; and various mortgage refinancings and lease acquisitions, amounted to approximately $325,000, $1,016,000 and $721,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Note 9- Dividends and earnings per share:
FREIT declared dividends of $8,263,000 ($1.20 per share), $8,787,000 ($1.30 per share) and $8,313,000 ($1.25 per share) to shareholders of record during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during each period. The calculation of diluted earnings per share is similar to that of basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional shares that would have been outstanding if all potentially dilutive shares, such as those issuable upon the exercise of stock options and warrants, were issued during the period.
In computing diluted earnings per share for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2008, the assumed exercise of all of FREIT's outstanding stock options, adjusted for application of the treasury stock method, would have increased the weighted average number of shares outstanding as shown in the table below:
Note 10- Equity incentive plan:
On September 10, 1998, the Board of Trustees approved FREIT's Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") which was ratified by FREIT's shareholders on April 7, 1999, whereby up to 920,000 of FREIT's shares of beneficial interest (adjusted for stock splits) may be granted to key personnel in the form of stock options, restricted share awards and other share-based awards. In connection therewith, the Board of Trustees approved an increase of 920,000 shares in FREIT's number of authorized shares of beneficial interest. Key personnel eligible for these awards include trustees, executive officers and other persons or entities including, without limitation, employees, consultants and employees of consultants, who are in a position to make significant contributions to the success of FREIT. Under the Plan, the exercise price of all options will be the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. The consideration to be paid for restricted share and other share-based awards shall be determined by the Board of Trustees, with the amount not to exceed the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. The maximum term of any award granted may not exceed ten years. The Board of Trustees will determine the actual terms of each award.
Upon ratification of the Plan on April 7, 1999, FREIT issued 754,000 stock options (adjusted for stock splits), which it had previously granted to key personnel on September 10, 1998. The fair value of the options on the date of grant was $7.50 per share.
On April 4, 2007, FREIT shareholders approved amendments to FREIT’s Equity Incentive Plan as follows: (a) reserving an additional 300,000 shares for issuance under the Plan; and (b) extending the term of the Plan until September 10, 2018.
The following table summarizes stock option activities:
The impact on FREIT's consolidated shareholders' equity for the options that were exercised during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was to increase the number of shares outstanding by the amount of options exercised and values of beneficial interest outstanding by $1,744,000, $75,000 and $2,021,000, respectively, for those fiscal years. There were no options outstanding at October 31, 2008, since all options expired in September 2008 and were exercised prior to that date.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during Fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $3,650,000, $173,000 and $4,868,000, respectively and the aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding at October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $0, $3,511,000 and $3,900,000, respectively.
Note 11- Share repurchase program:
On April 9, 2008, FREIT’s Board of Trustees authorized up to $2 million for the repurchase of FREIT shares commencing three (3) days after the announcement of its operating results for the quarter ended April 30, 2008. Share repurchases under this program may be made from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, depending on trading prices of FREIT shares and other market conditions. This share repurchase program may be limited or terminated at any time and without prior notice. As of October 31, 2008, FREIT repurchased 46,720 shares of common stock at a cost of $1,075,000, which is reflected in the Shareholders’ Equity section of FREIT’s consolidated balance sheet.
Note 12- Deferred fee plan:
During fiscal 2001, the Board of Trustees adopted a deferred fee plan (the "Plan") for its officers and trustees. Pursuant to the Plan, any officer or trustee may elect to defer receipt of any fees that would be due them. FREIT has agreed to pay any participant (the "Participant") in the Plan interest on any deferred fee at 9% per annum, compounded quarterly. Any such deferred fee is to be paid to the Participants at the later of: (i) the retirement age specified in the deferral election; (ii) actual retirement; or (iii) upon cessation of a Participant's duties as an officer or trustee. The Plan provides that any such deferral fee will be paid in a lump sum or in annual installments over a period not to exceed 10 years, at the election of the Participant. As of October 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately $2,381,000 and $1,924,000, respectively, of fees have been deferred together with accrued interest of approximately $765,000 and $520,000, respectively. The deferred amounts for fiscal 2008 and 2007 are included in accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Note 13- Segment information:
SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," established standards for reporting financial information about operating segments in interim and annual financial reports and provides for a "management approach" in identifying the reportable segments.
FREIT has determined that it has two reportable segments: commercial properties and residential properties. These reportable segments offer different types of space, have different types of tenants and are managed separately because each requires different operating strategies and management expertise.
The commercial and residential segments contained the following number of properties during the three fiscal years ended October 31, 2008:
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
The chief operating decision-making group of FREIT's commercial segment, residential segment and corporate/other is comprised of FREIT's Board of Trustees.
FREIT assesses and measures segment operating results based on net operating income ("NOI"). NOI is based on operating revenue and expenses directly associated with the operations of the real estate properties, but excludes deferred rents (straight lining), depreciation, financing costs and amortization of acquired lease values. NOI is not a measure of operating results or cash flows from operating activities as measured by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.
Continuing real estate rental revenue, operating expenses, NOI and recurring capital improvements for the reportable segments are summarized below and reconciled to consolidated net income for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2008. Asset information is not reported since FREIT does not use this measure to assess performance.
Note 14- Discontinued operations:
On June 26, 2007, FREIT closed on its contract for the sale of the Lakewood Apartments in Lakewood, New Jersey and recognized a gain of approximately $3.7 million from the sale. In compliance with current accounting guidance (SFAS No. 144 - “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”), the gain on the sale, as well as earnings of the Lakewood operation, are classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying income statements, and prior periods’ income statements have been reclassified. Revenue attributable to discontinued operations was $268,000 and $412,000 for Fiscal 2007and 2006, respectively.
Note 15- Quarterly data (unaudited):
The following summary represents the results of operations for each quarter for the years ended October 31, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
Note: Due to rounding, total of quarterly per share amounts may not agree to amounts reported for the full fiscal year.
* * *
FIRST REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST OF NEW JERSEY AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE XI - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
October 31,
(In Thousands of Dollars)
* Included in land balances are improvements classified under construction in progress.
(1) Total cost for each property is the same for Federal income tax purposes, with the exception of Pierre Towers, Preakness S/C and The Rotunda,
whose cost for Federal income tax purposes is approximately $36.1 million. $34.7 million and $31.3 million, respectively.
FIRST REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST OF NEW JERSEY AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE XI - REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
FIRST REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST OF NEW JERSEY (“FREIT”)
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit
No.
Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of FREIT, as further amended on January 21, 2004, May 15, 2007, and March 4, 2008. (a)
Form of Specimen Share Certificate, Beneficial Interest in FREIT. (b)
10.1
Management Agreement dated April 10, 2002, by and between FREIT and Hekemian & Co., Inc. (c)
10.2
Indemnification Agreements by Damascus 100, LLC and Rotunda 100, LLC to FREIT. (d)
10.3
Notes to Hekemian employees relative to their investments in each of Grande Rotunda, LLC and Damascus Centre, LLC and the related documents (pledge and security agreements and amendments). (e)
10.4
Damascus Center Agency Agreement. (f)
10.5
Wayne PSC, L.L.C. Operating Agreement dated March 25, 2002 between FREIT and H-TPKE, LLC (g)
10.6
Line of Credit Note in the principal amount of $14 million executed by FREIT as Borrower, and delivered to The Provident Bank, as Lender, in connection with the Credit Facility provided by The Provident Bank to FREIT. (h)
Subsidiaries of FREIT
Consent of Eisner LLP
Power of Attorney (filed with signature pages).
31.1
Rule 13a-14(a) - Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2
Rule 13a-14(a) - Certification of Chief Financial Officer
32.1
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer
32.2
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
The following filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are incorporated by reference:
Footnote
(a)
Exhibit 3.1 to FREIT’s 8-K fled on March 10, 2008.
(b)
Exhibit 4 to FREIT’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 1998.
(c)
Exhibit A to FREIT’s Form 8-K filed on April 29, 2002.
(d)
Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to FREIT’s 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2008.
(e)
Exhibits 10.3 and 10.4, respectively, to FREIT’s 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2008.
(f)
Exhibit 10.1 to FREIT’s 10-Q for the quarter ended July 31, 2008.
(g)
Exhibit B to FREIT’s Form 8-K filed on April 29, 2002.
(h)
Exhibit 10 to FREIT’s Form 10-Q filed on September 13, 2002.