Item 2. Properties
Offices
Our principal offices are located at 110 Cypress Station Drive, Suite 220, Houston, Texas 77090, where we occupy approximately 15,800 square feet of office space. Our Northern Region office, consisting of approximately 5,000 square feet, is located at 475 17th Street, Suite 1210, Denver, Colorado 80202. Our Williston office consists of approximately 4,000 square feet and is located at 1407 West Dakota Parkway, Williston, North Dakota 58801.
Index to Financial Statements Oil and Gas Reserve Information
All of our oil and gas reserves are located in the United States. Unaudited information concerning the estimated net quantities of all of our proved reserves and the standardized measure of future net cash flows from the reserves is presented in Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The reserve estimates have been prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., an independent petroleum engineering firm. We have no long-term supply or similar agreements with foreign governments or authorities.
Set forth below is a summary of our oil and gas reserves as of January 1, 2011. We did not provide any reserve information to any federal agencies in 2010 other than to the SEC.
Oil and Gas Reserve Quantities
(1) Present Value Discounted at 10% (“PV10”) is a Non-GAAP measure that differs from the GAAP measure “standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows” in that PV10 is calculated without regard to future income taxes. Management believes that the presentation of PV10 value is relevant and useful to our investors because it presents the estimated discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated proved reserves independent of our income tax attributes, thereby isolating the intrinsic value of the estimated future cash flows attributable to our reserves. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. For these reasons, management uses, and believes the industry generally uses, the PV10 measure in evaluating and comparing acquisition candidates and assessing the potential return on investment related to investments in oil and natural gas properties.
Index to Financial Statements PV10 is not a measure of financial or operational performance under GAAP, nor should it be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP. For presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, please see “Note N: Supplemental Financial Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 in this report. The table below (“Non-GAAP Reconciliation”) provides a reconciliation of PV10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Partnership Operations and Reserves as of January 1, 2011 (not included above):
The reserve quantities and values set forth above do not include our interest in two affiliated partnerships.
We hold a 30% partnership interest in SBE Partners, LP (“SBE Partners”) which owns interests in the Giddings field (as discussed further below in “Description of Noteworthy Properties”). In addition, we hold direct working interests in producing oil and gas properties located throughout Oklahoma and we also hold the general partner interest in OKLA Energy Partners, LP (“OKLA”) which owns a larger interest in those same producing oil and gas properties. Our 2% partnership interest in OKLA reverts to 35.66% if the limited partner realizes a contractually specified rate of return.
The following table represents our estimated share (excluding our reversionary interests) of the affiliated partnerships’ reserves and estimated present value of future net income discounted at 10% (in thousands), using SEC guidelines.
(1) See footnote (1) to the table immediately above.
Non-GAAP Reconcilation
The following table reconciles our direct interest in oil and gas reserves (in thousands):
The following table reconciles our indirect interest, through our affiliated partnerships, in oil and gas reserves (in thousands):
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural
Index to Financial Statements
gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and the interpretation thereof. As a result, estimates by different engineers often vary, sometimes significantly. In addition, physical factors such as the results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of the estimates, as well as economic factors such as change in product prices, may require revision of such estimates. Accordingly, oil and natural gas quantities ultimately recovered will vary from reserve estimates.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
From January 1, 2010 to January 1, 2011, our proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) increased 23% from 5,081,000 BOE to 6,238,000 BOE, or an increase of 1,157,000 BOE. This increase was attributable primarily to successful drilling activity and property acquisitions made during 2010 in the Bakken Shale trend of North Dakota and the Giddings field in Texas. We added 956,000 BOE as a result of successful drilling in 2010 and the commensurate PUDs associated with such drilling. As a result of acquisitions during 2010, we added 76,000 BOE. There were zero BOE that were no longer deemed to be economic PUDs at year-end. Reserves of 972,000 BOE were moved from the PUD reserve category to the proved developed category through the drilling of 35 gross wells. We incurred approximately $11.7 million in capital expenditures during 2010 in converting these 35 gross PUD wells to the proved developed reserve category. The remaining change in PUDs of 1,097,000 BOE was a result of increased prices and performance revisions over the time period. Based on our 2010 year end independent engineering reserve report, we plan to drill all of our individual PUD drilling locations within five years.
Preparation of Reserve Estimates
We have engaged an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm, Cawley Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”), to prepare our annual reserve estimates and have relied on their expertise to ensure that our reserve estimates are prepared in compliance with SEC guidelines.
The technical person primarily responsible for the preparation of the reserve report is Mr. Robert Ravnaas, Executive Vice President at CG&A. He earned a Bachelor’s of Science degree with special honors in Chemical Engineering from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1979, and a Master’s of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin in 1981. Mr. Ravnaas is a Registered Professional Engineer in Texas and has more than 30 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of oil and gas reserves. He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Geologists, and Society of Professional Well Log Analysts.
Our Executive Vice President, Engineering and Acquisitions, who is a qualified reserve estimator and auditor, is primarily responsible for overseeing our independent petroleum engineering firm during the preparation of our reserve report. His professional qualifications meet or exceed the qualifications of reserve estimators and auditors set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to Estimation and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. His qualifications include: Bachelor’s of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming, 1986; Master’s of Business Administration degree from University of Denver, 1988; member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers since 1985; and more than 23 years of practical experience in estimating and evaluating reserve information with more than five years of those being in charge of estimating and evaluating reserves.
We maintain adequate and effective internal controls over our reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are technical information, financial data, ownership interest, and production data. The relevant field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when our independent petroleum engineering firm has technical meetings with our engineers, geologist, operations and land personnel. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from our accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and our own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field level commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Our current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to our internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in our reserve database as well and verified
Index to Financial Statements
internally by us to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been updated with current information, and the relevant technical support material has been assembled, our independent engineering firm meets with our technical personnel to review field performance and future development plans in order to further verify the validity of estimates. Following these reviews the reserve database is furnished to CG&A so that it can prepare its independent reserve estimates and final report. The reserve estimates prepared by CG&A are reviewed and compared to our internal estimates by our Executive Vice President, Engineering and Acquisitions and staff in our reservoir engineering department. Material reserve estimation differences are reviewed between CG&A’s reserve estimates and our internally prepared reserves on a case-by-case basis. An iterative process between CG&A and us regarding any significant differences allows for additional data to be provided in order to address the differences. If the supporting documentation will not justify any additional changes, the CG&A reserves are accepted. In the event that additional data supports a reserve estimation adjustment, CG&A will analyze the additional data, and may make any changes it deems necessary. Additional data is usually comprised of updated production information on new wells. Once the review is completed and all material differences are reconciled, the reserve report is finalized and our reserve database is updated with the final estimates provided by CG&A. Access to our reserve database is restricted to specific members of our reservoir engineering department.
Net Oil and Gas Production, Average Price and Average Production Cost
The net quantities of oil and gas produced and sold by us for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010 the average sales price per unit sold and the average production cost per unit are presented below.
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (1 BOE).
Our oil production is sold to large petroleum purchasers. Due to the quality and location of our crude oil production, we may receive a discount or premium from index prices or “posted” prices in the area. Our gas production is sold primarily to pipelines and/or gas marketers under short-term contracts at prices which are tied to the “spot” market for gas sold in the area. Natural gas liquids have been converted to Mcf in the table above.
In 2010, two purchasers each accounted for 12% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues and one purchaser accounted for 11%. In 2009, one purchaser accounted for 17% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, two purchasers accounted for 15% each of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, and one more accounted for 11%. In 2008, one purchaser accounted for 16% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, two more accounted for 11% each and two purchasers accounted for 10% each of our consolidated oil and gas revenues. No other single purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our oil and gas revenues in 2010, 2009 or 2008. There are adequate alternate purchasers of our production such that we believe the loss of one or more of the above purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.
Index to Financial Statements Gross and Net Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2010, our total gross and net productive wells were as follows:
Productive Wells *
* A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractions of working interests we own in gross wells. Productive wells are producing wells plus shut-in wells we deem capable of production. Horizontal re-entries of existing wells do not increase a well total above one gross well.
Gross and Net Developed and Undeveloped Acres
As of December 31, 2010, we had total gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold acres as set forth below. The developed acreage is stated on the basis of spacing units designated or permitted by state regulatory authorities.
Gross acres are those acres in which working interest is owned. The number of net acres represents the sum of fraction working interests we own in gross acres.
Exploratory Wells and Development Wells
Set forth below for the three years ended December 31, 2010 is information concerning the number of wells we drilled during the years indicated.
Index to Financial Statements Present Activities
At March 10, 2011, we had 61 gross (3.95 net) wells in the process of drilling or completing.
Supply Contracts or Agreements
As of December 31, 2010, we were not obligated to provide any fixed or determinable quantities of oil and gas in the future under any existing contracts or agreements, beyond the short-term contracts customary in division orders and off lease marketing agreements with the industry. We also engage in hedging activities as discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Description of Noteworthy Properties
We are the operator of properties containing approximately 75% of our proved oil and gas reserves. As operator we are able to directly influence exploration, development and production operations. Our producing properties have reasonably predictable production profiles and cash flows, subject to commodity price fluctuations, and thus provide a foundation for our technical staff to pursue the development of our undeveloped acreage, further develop our existing properties and also generate new projects that we believe have the potential to increase our share value. Although, we believe that many of our existing fields have additional exploration and exploitation opportunities, these opportunities are held by continuing production operations and therefore we have deferred certain projects in favor of development drilling associated with our Bakken and Eagle Ford shale, as further discussed below. As common in the industry we participate in non-operated properties on a selective basis; our non-operating participation decisions are dependent on the technical and economic nature of the projects and the operating expertise and financial standing of the operators. The following is a description of certain of our noteworthy operated and non-operated producing oil and gas properties.
Bakken Shale and Three Forks Formations, Williston Basin Overview- We believe the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin represent a large North American oil deposit. A report issued by the United States Geological Survey, or USGS, in April 2008 classified the Bakken formation as the largest continuous oil accumulation ever assessed by it in the contiguous United States. Our Williston Basin, Bakken Shale properties are located primarily in Mountrail and Williams Counties, North Dakota and in Roosevelt and Richland Counties, Montana. We presently have working interests in approximately 44,000 net acres of which, 24,000 net acres are in Williams County, 11,000 net acres are in Mountrail County and 9,000 net acres are in Roosevelt and Richland Counties. As further discussed below, we have been involved in a non-operated joint venture with Slawson Exploration Company (“Slawson”) primarily in Mountrail County North Dakota, since 2007. Drilling activities in this joint venture increased appreciably over 2009 and 2010. Consistent with our operating strategy, during 2009 and 2010, we assembled acreage positions in Williams County, North Dakota and in Eastern Montana. At present, we anticipate operating the majority of spacing units across our acreage, outside of Mountrail County, and we continue to lease or otherwise acquire or trade for acreage within these project areas. At present we are running one rig in Williams county and eastern Montana and plan to bring on a second and third rig during 2011 depending on drilling rig availability.
Williams County, North Dakota - Our Williams County project area is comprised of 24,000 net acres, representing a 47.5% working interest where we have lease positions in eighty-two 1,280 acre spacing units. We originated the project and brought in industry partners on a promoted basis. We retained operations within a specified area of mutual interest. Drilling began in the project area in late 2010. We have drilled three operated wells and participated on one non-operated well. These wells are all in varying stages of completion and production operations.
Roosevelt and Richland Counties, Montana - In eastern Montana, we have acquired approximately 9,000 net acres where we are the operator of sixteen 1,280 acre units and have non-operated interests in several additional units. To date we have participated in three non-operated units, two of which are producing and the other one is waiting on hydraulic fracturing. We have also initiated our operated drilling program where we have drilled with the
Index to Financial Statements
Wheeler Ranch 9-16, which is a vertical Ratcliffe proved undeveloped location awaiting completion and we are currently drilling our first middle Bakken well.
Bakken Non-Operated Joint Venture, North Dakota - Our principal drilling activities in our Bakken non-operated joint venture are conducted through Slawson Exploration Company, Inc., but we also participate in this area with several other industry participants. We have varying working interests in the 11,000 net acres ranging from 10% to 18% in Montrail and nearby counties. To date, over 80 joint venture wells have been drilled by Slawson and we also have nominal interests in over 240 wells with other operators that are producing or are in various stages of drilling and completion. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the total production net to our interest in the Bakken trend was approximately 1,171 BOE/day and was approximately 93% oil.
Other Williston Basin Fields - We also operate other fields in Montana and North Dakota, including the Fairview, Fort Gilbert and Mondak Fields in Richland County, Montana, the Froid South Field in Roosevelt County, Montana and the Starbuck Madison Unit, Southwest Starbuck Field, the Landa, Northeast Landa, Sherman and Wayne Fields in Bottineau County, North Dakota. The Montana fields are comprised of 12 gross producing wells from the Mission Canyon interval through the Red River interval. We have an average working interest of 72% with a 61% net revenue interest in these fields. The Froid area has become prospective for Bakken formation production with recent well activity in the area and we control five potential 1,280 acre drilling units and have working interests in two possible additional drilling units. The Sherman/Wayne Fields consist of 20 gross producing wells, which produce from the Mississippian Wayne interval. We have an average working interest in the fields of 80%, with an average net revenue interest of 70%. The Landa/Northeast Landa area has 15 gross producing wells from the Spearfish and Madison intervals. We have a 92% average working interest and a 78% average net revenue interest in these wells. The Starbuck Madison Unit and Southwest Starbuck Field have been unitized and water-flood operations are underway. We operate the units and at the Starbuck Madison Unit have an average working interest of approximately 96% and an average net revenue interest of 81%. At Southwest Starbuck, we have a 98% working interest and a 75% net revenue interest. These two water-floods had production net to our interest of 59 BOE/day (100% oil) for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. For the same period, the production net to our interest in the remaining Williston Basin Fields, including those mentioned above but excluding the Bakken and Starbuck areas, was approximately 405 BOE/day (93% oil).
Eagle Ford Shale Trend - Our Eagle Ford properties are located in Atascosa, Fayette, Gonzales and McMullen counties of Texas. In southwest Fayette County, we have entered into agreements with an industry partner, which established an area of mutual interest, resulted in a cash payment of $20 million for a 50% undivided interest in our acreage, provides for the drilling and completion of six wells, where we retain a 50% interest, without cost to us and further provides us with a retained overriding royalty interest. The agreement also provides for additional leasing. Our net acreage position in the Eagle Ford Trend totals approximately 21,000 acres. Our initial drilling unit is the 900 acre Flatonia East Unit, located in southwest Fayette County, Texas. We have drilled and cased our initial well in the unit and are currently drilling the second unit well. We have a 50% working interest in this drilling unit and we are the operator for the entire project. Our net working interests in our Eagle Ford acreage range from 32.5% to 65%.
Giddings Field - Our Giddings Field properties are located in Brazos, Burleson, Fayette, Grimes, Lee, Montgomery and Washington Counties, Texas. We operate all but two of these properties, which consist of 68 gross wells that are producing from the Cretaceous Austin Chalk interval. All of the wells are horizontal producers that initially flow at high rates and subsequently produce through rod pumps, compression, and other production methods. We have an average direct working interest of 36% and an average net revenue interest of 28% in this field. In addition, we are the general partner and 30% owner of a limited partnership that owns an average 56% working interest with an average 43% net revenue interest in the Giddings Field. Our acreage position is 35,804 net acres, with approximately 29,406 net acres held directly and approximately 6,398 net acres held through our interest in the limited partnership. From 2007 to early 2010, when we suspended our drilling operations due to low gas prices, we drilled 16 wells with a 100% success rate. We have 20 remaining Austin Chalk drilling locations and believe the acreage is prospective for the Yegua, Georgetown and Eagle Ford formations. Production from the Giddings Field is primarily gas and for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the production net to our interest in the Giddings Field was approximately 7,440 Mcfe/day and was approximately 96% gas. An additional 2,479 Mcfe/day (96% gas) was attributable to our share of the limited partnership. Our 2010 acquisition in Giddings and nearby fields was located primarily in Brazos and Madison counties, Texas. This property consists of 40 producers with all but three
Index to Financial Statements
being operated by the Company. Production is from horizontal and vertical wells in the Austin Chalk, Buda and Woodbine formations. Our average working interest is 44% with an average net revenue interest of 32%. We are evaluating the acreage for possible Austin Chalk and Woodbine drilling opportunities. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010 our net production from these properties was approximately 252 BOE/day (77% oil).
St. Martinville Field - Our St. Martinville Field is located in St. Martin Parish, Louisiana. The field consists of 12 gross producing wells, which produce from numerous Miocene sand intervals. The wells are on rod-pump or electric submersible pumps. We operate the field and have an average working interest of 97%. We own the majority of the minerals resulting in a net revenue interest of approximately 91%. The Conoco Fee A-53 was drilled and completed during the fourth quarter of 2010 and commenced production in early 2011. We continue to work the 3-D seismic and subsurface geologic well control and expect to identify additional drilling locations. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the production net to our interest in this field was approximately 137 BOE/day (100% oil).
Eloi Bay Field Complex - Our Eloi Bay complex is located in Louisiana state waters offshore St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana in five to 10 feet of water. This non-operated complex has 54 gross producing wells. Our working interests in these wells vary between 12% and 50%. Across the complex as a whole, our average working interest is 46% and our average net revenue interest is 39%. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the production net to our interests in the complex was approximately 372 BOE/day (100% oil).
Quarantine Bay Field - Our Quarantine Bay Field is located in Louisiana State waters offshore Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana in six to 15 feet of water. The majority of field pay zones have been developed at depths above 10,500 feet. At present, the field has 32 gross producing wells. We have an average working interest in these wells of 7% and an average net revenue interest of 5%. However, we have a 33% working interest in deeper potential which are generally below 11,500 feet but are further defined in assignments. Our smaller working interest in the shallow production provides cost effective access to production facilities. We believe significant exploration potential exists below field pays. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the production net to our interest in this field was approximately 42 BOE/day (99% oil).
South Texas - Our south Texas fields include the Odem Field, located in San Patricio County; the Driscoll Field, located in Duval County; and the Chittim Ranch Field, located in Maverick County. Productive formations include the Frio/Miocene, Jackson/Yegua and Glen Rose intervals. The fields produce with the aid of rod pumps, gas lift and low pressure gathering systems. We operate these fields and our working interests in them range from 44% to 98% and our net revenue interests range from 35% to 86%. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the production net to our interest in these fields was approximately 445 BOE/day (43% oil).
West Texas - Our west Texas and New Mexico fields include our Harris Field, located in Gaines County, Texas; our MAK Field, located in Andrews County, Texas; and other fields located in Eddy and Lea Counties, New Mexico. Productive formations include the San Andres, Spraberry, Seven Rivers, Queen and Grayburg intervals. The fields produce with the aid of rod pumps. We operate these fields and our working interests in them range from 68% to 100% and our net revenue interests range from 52% to 78%. For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the production net to our interests in these properties was approximately 235 BOE/day (79% oil).
Title to Properties
It is customary in the oil and gas industry to make a limited review of title to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired. It is also customary to obtain more extensive title examinations prior to the commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped leases or prior to the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties. With respect to the future acquisition of both undeveloped and proved properties, we plan to conduct title examinations on such properties in a manner consistent with industry and banking practices. We have obtained title opinions, title reports or otherwise conducted title investigations covering substantially all of our producing properties and believe we have satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, overriding royalty interests, and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of our oil and gas properties are and may continue to be mortgaged to secure borrowings under bank credit facilities (see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources”).
Index to Financial Statements
Item 3.