Item 2. Properties
Offices
Our principal offices are located at 110 Cypress Station Drive, Suite 220, Houston, Texas 77090, where we occupy approximately 15,800 square feet of office space. The lease provides for gross rent of $213,422 per year in the first year and escalates $7,900 per year until expiration on April 15, 2013. Our Northern Region office, consisting of approximately 3,600 square feet, is located at 475 17th Street, Suite 1210, Denver, Colorado 80202. The Denver office lease provides for gross rent of $77,190 per year for 2010 and expires on January 31, 2011. Our Williston office consists of approximately 4,000 square feet and is located at 1407 West Dakota Parkway, Williston, North Dakota 58801. The Williston office lease provides for gross rent of $24,000 per year for 2010 and expires on December 31, 2010. We currently expect to renew all of our office leases upon expiration.
Index to Financial Statements Oil and Gas Reserve Information
All of our oil and gas reserves are located in the United States. Unaudited information concerning the estimated net quantities of all of our proved reserves and the standardized measure of future net cash flows from the reserves is presented in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The reserve estimates are based upon the reports of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., an independent petroleum engineering firm. We have no long-term supply or similar agreements with foreign governments or authorities.
Set forth below is a summary of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009. All of our reserves are located in the United States. We did not provide any reserve information to any federal agencies in 2009 other than to the SEC.
Oil and Gas Reserve Quantities
(1) Present Value Discounted at 10% (“PV10”) is a Non-GAAP measure that differs from the GAAP measure “standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows” in that PV10 is calculated without regard to future income taxes. Management believes that the presentation of PV10 value is relevant and useful to our investors because it presents the estimated discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated proved reserves independent of our income tax attributes, thereby isolating the intrinsic value of the estimated future cash flows attributable to our reserves. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. For these reasons, management uses, and believes the industry generally uses, the PV10 measure in evaluating and comparing acquisition candidates and assessing the potential return on investment related to investments in oil and natural gas properties.
Index to Financial Statements PV10 is not a measure of financial or operational performance under GAAP, nor should it be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP. For presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, please see “Note O: Supplemental Financial Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 in this report. The table below (“Non-GAAP Reconciliation”) provides a reconciliation of PV10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Partnership Operations and Reserves as of December 31, 2009 (not included above):
The reserve quantities and values set forth above do not include our interest in two affiliated partnerships.
We hold a 30% partnership interest in SBE Partners, LP (“SBE Partners”) which owns interests in the Giddings field (as discussed further below in Noteworthy Properties). In addition, we hold direct working interests in producing oil and gas properties located throughout Oklahoma and we also hold the general partner interest in OKLA Energy Partners, LP (“OKLA”) which owns a larger interest in those same producing oil and gas properties. Our 2% partnership interest in OKLA reverts to 35.66% if the limited partner realizes a contractually specified rate of return.
The following table represents our estimated share (excluding our reversionary interests) of the affiliated partnerships’ reserves and estimated present value of future net income discounted at 10% (in thousands), using SEC guidelines.
Non-GAAP Reconcilation
The following table reconciles our direct interest in oil and gas reserves (in thousands):
The following table reconciles our indirect interest, through our affiliated partnerships, in oil and gas reserves (in thousands):
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural
Index to Financial Statements
gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and the interpretation thereof. As a result, estimates by different engineers often vary, sometimes significantly. In addition, physical factors such as the results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of the estimates, as well as economic factors such as change in product prices, may require revision of such estimates. Accordingly, oil and natural gas quantities ultimately recovered will vary from reserve estimates.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
From December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, our proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) increased 75% from 2,900,000 BOE to 5,081,000 BOE, or an increase of 2,181,000 BOE. This increase in PUDs was attributable to successful drilling activity and property acquisitions made during 2009 in the Bakken Shale trend in North Dakota and the Giddings field in Texas. These PUD increases were partially offset by approximately 1,000,000 BOE in PUDs that were converted into proved developed reserves due to the approximately 22 gross proved undeveloped well locations that were drilled and placed on production during 2009. We incurred $11,400,000 in capital expenditures to drill and bring these 22 PUD locations to production.
The quantities of PUDs that remain undeveloped after having disclosed as proved undeveloped reserves for a period of five years or more are zero as of December 31, 2009.
Preparation of Reserve Estimates
We maintain adequate and effective internal controls over our reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserves estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of technical information, financial data, ownership interests and production data. All field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when the reservoir engineers hold technical meetings with engineers, geologists, operations and land personnel to discuss field performance and to validate future development plans. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from our accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and our own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using criteria set forth in Internal Controls - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field level commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Our current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to the aforementioned internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in the reserves database as well and verified to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, our independent engineering firm, Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”), meets with our technical personnel to review field performance and future development plans in order to further verify their validity. Following these reviews the reserve database is furnished to CG&A so that they can prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report. Access to our reserve database is restricted to specific members of the reservoir engineering department.
CG&A is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm. Our primary contact at CG&A is Mr. Robert Ravnaas, Executive Vice President. Mr. Ravnaas is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer. See Exhibit 23.2 of this report for the Report of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. and further information regarding the professional qualifications of Mr. Ravnaas.
Index to Financial Statements Net Oil and Gas Production, Average Price and Average Production Cost
The net quantities of oil and gas produced and sold by us for each of the three years ended December 31, the average sales price per unit sold and the average production cost per unit are presented below.
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (1 BOE).
Our production is sold to large petroleum purchasers. Due to the quality and location of our crude oil production, we may receive a discount or premium from index prices or “posted” prices in the area. Our gas production is sold primarily to pipelines and/or gas marketers under short-term contracts at prices which are tied to the “spot” market for gas sold in the area.
In 2009, one purchaser accounted for 17% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, two purchasers accounted for 15% each of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, and one more accounted for 11%. In 2008, one purchaser accounted for 16% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, two more accounted for 11% each and two purchasers accounted for 10% each of our oil and gas revenues. In 2007, two purchasers accounted for 17% and 14% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues. No other single purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated oil and gas revenues in 2009, 2008, or 2007. There are adequate alternate purchasers of our production such that we believe the loss of one or more of the above purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.
Gross and Net Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2009, our total gross and net productive wells were as follows:
Productive Wells *
* A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractions of working interests we own in gross wells. Productive wells are producing wells plus shut-in wells we deem capable of production. Horizontal re-entries of existing wells do not increase a well total above one gross well.
Index to Financial Statements Gross and Net Developed and Undeveloped Acres
As of December 31, 2009, we had total gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold acres as set forth below. The developed acreage is stated on the basis of spacing units designated by state regulatory authorities.
Gross acres are those acres in which working interest is owned. The number of net acres represents the sum of fraction working interests we own in gross acres.
Exploratory Wells and Development Wells
Set forth below for the three years ended December 31, is information concerning the number of wells we drilled during the years indicated.
During 2009 we also drilled 4 gross (3.87 net) service wells to be used in conjunction with the water flood project at our Starbuck Madison Unit and Southwest Starbuck field in Bottineau County North Dakota.
Present Activities
At March 11, 2010, we had 28 gross (3.72 net) wells in the process of drilling or completing.
Supply Contracts or Agreements
As of December 31, 2009, we were not obligated to provide any fixed or determinable quantities of oil and gas in the future under any existing contracts or agreements, beyond the short-term contracts customary in division orders and off lease marketing agreements with the industry. In March, 2009, we entered into a forward sales contract for a portion of the crude oil sales on several of our Northern Region properties. The contract obligates us to sell 300 Bbls/d at a fixed price of $40.80. The contract term began April, 2009 and runs through March, 2010. We also engage in hedging activities as discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Index to Financial Statements Description of Noteworthy Properties
We are the operator of properties containing approximately 80% of our proved oil and gas reserves. As operator we are able to directly influence exploration, development and production operations. Our producing properties have reasonably predictable production profiles and cash flows, subject to commodity price fluctuations, and thus provide a foundation for our technical staff to further develop our existing properties and also generate new projects that we believe have the potential to increase our share value. We believe that many of our existing fields have additional exploration and exploitation opportunities. As common in the industry we participate in non-operated properties but are selective; our non-operating participation decisions are dependent on the technical and economic nature of the projects and the operating expertise and financial standing of the operators. The following is a description of certain of our noteworthy operated and non-operated producing oil and gas properties.
Bakken Shale Trend, Williston Basin - Our Williston Basin, Bakken Trend properties are located in Mountrail County and the adjacent counties of North Dakota. As of December 31, 2009, we owned working interests in about 106,000 gross acres. To date, our principal drilling has been conducted through a joint venture with Slawson Exploration Company, but we also participate in this area with several other operators. We have varying working interests in the properties ranging from 10% to 18%. Through the end of 2009, we have realized a 100% success rate with 41 joint venture wells drilled by the operator. We also have nominal interests in over 120 wells that are producing or are in various stages of completion with other operators. Our joint venture continues to acquire acreage in this expanding play and is currently running five drilling rigs. Pending economic conditions we expect to continue to run 4-5 drilling rigs. The majority of our wells have been and are expected to be drilled on 640 acre spacing units. In our view, the economics are attractive and acreage can be “proved up” and placed on production on an expedited basis. However, we are scheduling 1,280 acre (and some larger) spacing units and have numerous locations which may result in or require larger spacing units. In addition, consistent with our business strategy of expanding acreage positions with growth, beginning in October 2009, we initiated a significant leasing program in Williams County, North Dakota with the objective of establishing a significant operated drilling program. We also solicited industry partners to participate in the project on a promoted basis. As of March 3, 2010, we have acquired approximately 61,000 gross (42,000 net) acres and entered into agreements with industry partners to participate in future drilling and development activities. We expect to retain a 45% working interest, amounting to approximately 18,900 net acres to the Company, in a contractually specified area of mutual interest, with an average 37% net revenue interest. We are continuing to lease additional acreage in this area. Initial drilling is expected to commence in the summer of 2010. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest in the Bakken Trend was approximately 728 BOE/day and was approximately 95% oil.
RipRap Coulee Field - This field is a Bakken Shale play in eastern Montana. It involves horizontal drilling at vertical depths of about 10,000 feet. Currently, we own 997 gross (498 net) acres in this prospect.
Starbuck Madison Unit and Southwest Starbuck Madison Unit - These properties are located in Bottineau County, North Dakota. The Starbuck Madison Unit includes 6,619 gross (6,354 net) acres and water-flood operations are underway. This unit includes 14 gross producing wells producing from the Mississippian Madison interval and six active injection wells. We operate the unit and have an average working interest of 96% and an average net revenue interest of 81%. Recent production increases are believed to be initial secondary recovery responses. The flood design includes two productive zones, the Midale (Mississippian Charles) and the Berentson (Mississippian Charles B-1) zone, which are being flooded separately. The Starbuck Midale has produced 584,000 barrels of oil and the Berentson has produced 754,000 barrels on primary recovery, for total field production of 1,267,000 barrels of oil. We also have successfully unitized the Southwest Starbuck Madison Unit which includes 560 gross acres. In this unit, we have a 98% working interest, a 75% net revenue interest and have completed the initial phase of water flood operations in connection with phase two of the larger Starbuck Madison Unit. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest from these two units was approximately 65 BOE/day and was 100% oil. Production is expected to increase should flood response be successful.
Chittim Field - We have 12,822 gross (6,411 net) acres in this field, located in Maverick County, Texas. The field presently produces out of the Glen Rose interval and the upside potential includes an additional three proved and probable undeveloped locations. The Maverick Basin, however, has additional plays and targets including the
Index to Financial Statements
Pearsall and Eagle Ford shale. We have included in our capital budget one horizontal offset well to a vertical Pearsall well that produced. We believe horizontal drilling and advanced completion techniques offer the potential to make the Pearsall meaningful to us. The commercial viability of the Eagle Ford shale is currently unknown but there is significant activity in the area. We will monitor the drilling and development efforts of other operators before we commit drilling dollars to development. Our acreage is held by production and therefore, we have no pending lease obligations or expirations. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest in this field was approximately 989Mcfe/day and was approximately 98% natural gas.
Giddings Field - Our Giddings field properties are located in Brazos, Burleson, Fayette, Grimes, Lee, Montgomery and Washington Counties, Texas. We operate all of these properties, which consist of 66 gross wells that are producing from the Cretaceous Austin Chalk interval. All of these wells are horizontal producers that initially flow at high rates and subsequently produce through rod pumps, compression, and other production methods. We have an average direct working interest of 35% and a net revenue interest of 27% in this field. In Grimes County, however, where the majority of our production and development activity is, we have an average direct working interest of 37% and net revenue interest of 30%. In addition, we are the general partner and hold an interest of 30% in an affiliated limited partnership which owns an average 56% working interest with an average 43% net revenue interest in Giddings field. Our acreage position is 35,804 net acres, with approximately 29,406 net acres held directly and approximately 6,398 net acres held through our interest in the limited partnership. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest in Giddings field was approximately 11,515 Mcfe/day and was approximately 98% natural gas. An additional 8,212 Mcfe/day (which was approximately 98% gas) was attributable to our share of the limited partnership.
The net quantities of oil and gas produced and sold by us in Giddings field for each of the three years ended December 31, the average sales price per unit sold and the average production cost per unit are presented below:
* Mcfe have been calculated on the basis of one barrel of oil is equivalent to six thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
In November 2009, we recommenced our successful exploitation of the Austin Chalk Formation in Giddings field, in Grimes County, Texas. The Hutto Unit #1-H, which was a planned 7,800 foot single lateral location, was spud on November 6, 2009. We are the operator and hold a 52% working interest in this well. This location and the next two or three planned drilling locations will be on the northwest side of our acreage block where we expect the reserves to be more “oily” and produce approximately 50% oil and liquids. Through December 31, 2009, we have drilled 14 Austin Chalk wells and achieved a success rate of 100%. Our present drilling inventory for this field includes 22 proved undeveloped and probable locations. We continue to acquire additional acreage. Our direct working interest in our inventory of planned drilling location varies from 37% to 53%. At present, we expect to sequentially drill all locations with a single drilling rig, but we may accelerate development pending continued success and favorable commodity prices.
Index to Financial Statements There has been significant exploration activity in regional proximity to our large acreage position in Grimes County, Texas, including a shallow Yegua formation gas discovery, which we believe would be prospective to our acreage and justify a 3-D seismic program. We believe that the deeper Eagle Ford shale which underlies the Austin Chalk may present us with similar opportunities. The Eagle Ford shale is being drilled and evaluated by a number of substantially larger independents.
South Texas - Our south Texas fields include Odem field, located in San Patricio County and Driscoll field, located in Duval County. Productive formations include the Frio/Miocene and Jackson/Yegua intervals. The fields produce with the aid of rod pumps, gas lift and low pressure gathering systems. We operate these fields and our working interests in them range from 44% to 98%; our net revenue interests range from 35% to 86%. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest in these fields was approximately 309 BOE/day (62% oil).
West Texas - Our west Texas and New Mexico fields include Harris field located in Gaines County, Texas; our MAK field, located in Andrews County, Texas, and other fields located in Eddy and Lea Counties, New Mexico. Productive formations include the San Andres, Spraberry, Seven Rivers, Queen and Grayburg intervals. The fields produce with the aid of rod pumps. We operate these fields and our working interests in them range from 68% to 100% and our net revenue interests range from 52% to 78%. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interests from these properties was approximately 189 BOE/day and was approximately 95% oil.
Eloi Bay Field Complex - Our Eloi Bay complex is located in Louisiana state waters offshore St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana in 5 to 10 feet of water. This non-operated complex has 46 gross producing wells. At present, 8,074 gross (4,352 net) acres are held by production. Our working interests in these wells vary between 12% and 50%. Across the complex as a whole, our average working interest is 46% and our average net revenue interest is 39%. In addition to the proved production, this field has numerous behind-pipe opportunities due to multiple stacked sand reservoirs along with four proved undeveloped locations, which are above existing production. Other operators have had drilling success and established deeper production in the area. We have budgeted funds for the acquisition and reprocessing of 3-D seismic throughout the field and certain surrounding acreage to define prospective opportunities which may exist. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interests in the complex was approximately 345 BOE/day and was approximately 100% oil.
Quarantine Bay Field - Our Quarantine Bay field is located in Louisiana State waters offshore Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana in 6 to 15 feet of water. This non-operated field has 31 gross producing wells completed above 10,500 foot depth. All of the wells produce with the aid of gas lift equipment. We have an average working interest in these wells and production facilities of 7% and an average net revenue interest of 5%. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest in this field was approximately 45 BOE/day and was approximately 100% oil. While our current share of production is negligible, the production is holding a considerable amount of acreage with exploration potential. We hold 14,535 gross (1,281 net) acres above 10,500 feet and 5,214 net acres below that depth. Upside in the shallow reservoirs in this field consists of numerous behind-pipe opportunities due to the multiple stacked sand reservoirs, along with proved undeveloped and rate acceleration locations in the depths above 10,500 feet. We believe deeper formations provide exploration potential and we have a 33% working interest, with a 24.75% net revenue interest below 10,500 feet. The operator acquired 35 square miles of 3-D seismic data to image and define prospect leads primarily below 10,500 feet. Schlumberger was engaged to reprocess the 3-D seismic data and provide initial interpretive geological and geophysical services. Geophysical and subsurface evaluation is continuing and several prospects have been defined, the majority of which are on acreage that is held by production operations.
St. Martinville Field - Our St. Martinville field is located in St. Martin Parish, Louisiana. The field consists of 16 gross producing wells, which produce from numerous Miocene sand intervals. The wells are on rod-pump or electric submersible pumps. We operate the field and have an average working interest of 97%. We own the majority of the minerals resulting in a net revenue interest of approximately 91%. We are currently interpreting a 3-D seismic survey over this field that was shot and processed in late 2009. We believe the field has development and exploration potential. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the production net to our interest in this field was approximately 209 BOE/day and was approximately 100% oil.
Index to Financial Statements Title to Properties
It is customary in the oil and gas industry to make a limited review of title to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired. It is also customary to obtain more extensive title examinations prior to the commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped leases or prior to the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties. With respect to the future acquisition of both undeveloped and proved properties, we plan to conduct title examinations on such properties in a manner consistent with industry and banking practices. We have obtained title opinions, title reports or otherwise conducted title investigations covering substantially all of our producing properties and believe we have satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, overriding royalty interests, and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of our oil and gas properties are and may continue to be mortgaged to secure borrowings under bank credit facilities (see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources”).
Index to Financial Statements
Item 3.