Item 2. Properties
Offices
Our principal executive office is located at 110 Cypress Station Drive, Suite 220, Houston, Texas 77090, where we occupy approximately 15,800 square feet of office space. Our Northern Division office, consisting of approximately 5,000 square feet, is located at 475 17th Street, Suite 1210, Denver, Colorado 80202. Our Williston office consists of approximately 4,000 square feet and is located at 1407 West Dakota Parkway, Williston, North Dakota 58801.
Oil and Gas Reserve Information
All of our oil and gas reserves are located in the United States. Unaudited information concerning the estimated net quantities of all of our proved reserves and the standardized measure of future net cash flows from the reserves is presented in “Note N: Supplemental Financial Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 in this report. The reserve estimates have been prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., an independent petroleum engineering firm. We have no long-term supply or similar agreements with foreign governments or authorities.
Set forth below is a summary of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011. We did not provide any reserve information to any federal agencies in 2011 other than to the SEC.
Oil and Gas Reserve Quantities
(1) Present Value Discounted at 10% (“PV10”) is a Non-GAAP measure that differs from the GAAP measure “standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows” in that PV10 is calculated without regard to future income taxes. Management believes that the presentation of PV10 value is relevant and useful to our investors because it presents the estimated discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated proved reserves independent of our income tax attributes, thereby isolating the intrinsic value of the estimated future cash flows attributable to our reserves. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. For these reasons, management uses, and believes the industry generally uses, the PV10 measure in evaluating and comparing acquisition candidates and assessing the potential return on investment related to investments in oil and natural gas properties.
PV10 is not a measure of financial or operational performance under GAAP, nor should it be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP. For presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, please see “Note N: Supplemental Financial Information for Oil and Gas Producing Activities-Unaudited” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 in this report. The table below titled “Non-GAAP Reconciliation” provides a reconciliation of PV10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Partnership Operations and Reserves as of January 1, 2012 (not included above):
The reserve quantities and values set forth above do not include our interest in two affiliated partnerships, discussed directly hereafter.
We hold an approximate 30% general partnership interest in SBE Partners, LP (“SBE Partners”) which owns interests in the Giddings field (as discussed further below in “Description of Noteworthy Properties”). In addition, we also hold the general partner interest in OKLA Energy Partners, LP (“OKLA”) which owns working interests in producing oil and gas properties in Oklahoma. Our 2% partnership interest in OKLA increases to 35.66% if the limited partner realizes a contractually specified rate of return (reversionary interest).
The following table represents our estimated share (excluding our reversionary interests) of the affiliated partnerships’ reserves and estimated present value of future net income discounted at 10% (in thousands), using SEC guidelines.
(1) See footnote (1) to the above table for a definition of Present Value Discounted at 10%.
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (in thousands)
The following table reconciles our direct interest in oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011:
The following table reconciles our indirect interest, through our affiliated partnerships, in oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011:
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality
of available data and the interpretation thereof. As a result, estimates by different engineers often vary, sometimes significantly. In addition, physical factors such as the results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of the estimates, as well as economic factors such as change in product prices, may require revision of such estimates. Accordingly, oil and natural gas quantities ultimately recovered will vary from reserve estimates.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
From January 1, 2011 to January 1, 2012, our proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) increased 43% from 6,238 MBOE to 8,919 MBOE, or an increase of 2,681 MBOE. This increase was primarily attributable to successful drilling activity in 2011 in the Bakken Shale trend of North Dakota. We added 3,387 MBOE as a result of successful drilling in 2011 and the commensurate PUDs associated with such drilling. During 2011 we did not have any acquisitions that increased our PUDs. There were 182 MBOE that were no longer deemed to be economic PUDs at year-end. Reserves of 568 MBOE were moved from the PUD reserve category to the proved developed or the proved developed non-producing category through the drilling of 26 gross wells. We incurred approximately $6.2 million in capital expenditures during 2011 in converting these 26 gross PUD wells to the proved developed reserve category. The remaining change in PUDs of 44 MBOE was a result of increased prices and performance revisions over the time period. Based on our 2011 year end independent engineering reserve report, we plan to drill all of our individual PUD drilling locations within five years.
Preparation of Reserve Estimates
We have engaged an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm, Cawley Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”), to prepare our annual reserve estimates and have relied on their expertise to ensure that our reserve estimates are prepared in compliance with SEC guidelines.
The technical person primarily responsible for the preparation of the reserve report is Mr. Robert Ravnaas, Executive Vice President at CG&A. He earned a Bachelor’s of Science degree with special honors in Chemical Engineering from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1979, and a Master’s of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin in 1981. Mr. Ravnaas is a Registered Professional Engineer in Texas and has more than 30 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of oil and gas reserves. He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Geologists, and Society of Professional Well Log Analysts.
Our Executive Vice President, Engineering and Acquisitions, who also serves as our Chief Operating Officer for our Northern Region is a qualified reserve estimator and auditor and is primarily responsible for overseeing our independent petroleum engineering firm during the preparation of our reserve report. His professional qualifications meet or exceed the qualifications of reserve estimators and auditors set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to Estimation and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. His qualifications include: Bachelors of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Wyoming, 1986; Masters of Business Administration degree from the University of Denver, 1988; member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers since 1985; and more than 24 years of practical experience in estimating and evaluating reserve information with more than five years of those being in charge of estimating and evaluating reserves.
We maintain adequate and effective internal controls over our reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are technical information, financial data, ownership interest, and production data. The relevant field and reservoir technical information, which is updated annually, is assessed for validity when our independent petroleum engineering firm has technical meetings with our engineers, geologist, operations and land personnel. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from our accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and our own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field level commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Our current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to our internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in our reserve database as well and verified internally by us to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been updated with current
information, and the relevant technical support material has been assembled, our independent engineering firm meets with our technical personnel to review field performance and future development plans in order to further verify the validity of estimates. Following these reviews the reserve database is furnished to CG&A so that it can prepare its independent reserve estimates and final report. The reserve estimates prepared by CG&A are reviewed and compared to our internal estimates by our Executive Vice President, Engineering and Acquisitions and staff in our reservoir engineering department. Material reserve estimation differences are reviewed between CG&A’s reserve estimates and our internally prepared reserves on a case-by-case basis. An iterative process between CG&A and us regarding any significant differences allows for additional data to be provided in order to address the differences. If the supporting documentation will not justify any additional changes, the CG&A reserves are accepted. In the event that additional data supports a reserve estimation adjustment, CG&A will analyze the additional data, and may make any changes it deems necessary. Additional data is usually comprised of updated production information on new wells. Once the review is completed and all material differences are reconciled, the reserve report is finalized and our reserve database is updated with the final estimates provided by CG&A. Access to our reserve database is restricted to specific members of our reservoir engineering department.
Net Oil and Gas Production, Average Price and Average Production Cost
The net quantities of oil and gas produced and sold by us for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011, the average sales price per unit sold and the average production cost per unit are presented below.
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (1 BOE).
** Excludes ad valorem taxes (which are included in lease operating expenses on our consolidated statements of income) of $1.2 million, $1.3 million, and $1.1 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively and severance taxes.
Our Giddings field in east Texas contained 17%, 22% and 28% of our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. No other single field accounted for 15% or more of our proved reserves in 2011, 2010 or 2009. The net quantities of oil and gas produced and sold by us for the each of the three years ended December 31, 2011, the average sales price per unit sold and the average production cost per unit for our Giddings field are presented below.
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (1 BOE).
** Excludes ad valorem taxes and severance taxes
Our oil production is sold to large petroleum purchasers. Due to the quality and location of our crude oil production, we may receive a discount or premium from index prices or “posted” prices in the area. Our gas production is sold primarily to pipelines and/or gas marketers under short-term contracts at prices which are tied to the “spot” market for gas sold in the area. Natural gas liquids have been converted to Mcf in the table above.
In 2011, three purchasers each accounted for 12% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues. In 2010, two purchasers each accounted for 12% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues and one purchaser accounted for 11%. In 2009, one purchaser accounted for 17% of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, two purchasers accounted for 15% each of our consolidated oil and gas revenues, and one accounted for 11%. No other single purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our oil and gas revenues in 2011, 2010 or 2009. There are adequate alternate purchasers of our production such that we believe the loss of one or more of the above purchasers would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.
Gross and Net Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2011, our total gross and net productive wells were as follows:
Productive Wells
* A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractions of working interests we own in gross wells. Productive wells are producing wells plus shut-in wells we deem capable of production. Horizontal re-entries of existing wells do not increase a well total above one gross well.
** We have working interests in 11 gross wells with completions into more than one productive zone; in the table above these wells with multiple completions are only counted as one gross well.
Gross and Net Developed and Undeveloped Acres
As of December 31, 2011, we had total gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold acres as set forth below. The developed acreage is stated on the basis of spacing units designated or permitted by state regulatory authorities.
Gross acres are those acres in which working interest is owned. The number of net acres represents the sum of fractional working interests we own in gross acres.
Exploratory Wells and Development Wells
Set forth below for the three years ended December 31, 2011 is information concerning the number of wells we drilled during the years indicated.
Present Activities
At March 9, 2012, we had 50 gross (6.9 net) wells in the process of drilling or completing.
Supply Contracts or Agreements
As of December 31, 2011 we had one natural gas sales contract in our Williams County North Dakota project area in the Bakken trend. Under the terms of this contract we have committed substantially all of the production for the life of our leases in this area to one purchaser. In return for our life of lease commitment, this purchaser has committed to building a gas gathering system across our project area. The sales price under this contract is based on a monthly posted market price. As of December 31, 2011, the majority of our production (aside from the aforementioned contract) is marketed under short-term contracts customary in division orders and off lease marketing agreements with the industry. We also engage in hedging activities as discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Description of Major Properties and General Strategy
We are the operator of properties containing approximately 75% of our proved oil and gas reserves. As operator we are able to directly influence exploration, development and production operations. Our producing properties have reasonably predictable production profiles and cash flows, subject to commodity price fluctuations, and have provided a solid foundation for our technical staff to pursue the development of our undeveloped acreage, further develop our existing properties and also generate new projects that we believe have the potential to increase our shareholder value. We are currently focused on three plays, being the Bakken and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin, the Eagle Ford trend in Texas and the Austin Chalk trend in Texas. It is our intent to continue to expand our acreage and drilling inventory in these areas. Further, although we believe that many of our existing conventional fields have additional exploration and exploitation opportunities, as further discussed below, many of these fields will become divestiture candidates over the next few years. We will likely retain some legacy properties, provided they are profitable and located in reasonable proximity to our focus areas.
As is common in our industry we participate in non-operated properties on a selective basis; our non-operating participation decisions are dependent on the technical and economic nature of the projects and the operating expertise and financial standing of the operators. The following is a description of our major oil and gas properties.
Bakken Shale and Three Forks Formations, Williston Basin Overview - We believe the Bakken Shale and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin represent a large North American oil deposit. Our opinion is supported by our own geological and engineering studies as well as reports from federal and state agencies and the industry in general. Our Bakken shale properties are located primarily in Mountrail, Williams and McKenzie counties in North Dakota and in Roosevelt and Richland counties in eastern Montana. Our focus is on the Middle Bakken and Three Forks formations and as of March 9, 2012 we have working interests in approximately 54,700 total net acres currently prospective for the Bakken and Three Forks formations. This acreage is comprised of 27,800 net acres in our Williams County project area, 12,900 net acres in our eastern Montana project area, 9,700 net acres in our Mountrail County project area, and 4,300 net acres in our McKenzie Line project area. We anticipate operating the majority of the spacing units in our Williams County and eastern Montana project areas, while we will primarily be non-operated working interest participants in most of the spacing units in our Mountrail County and McKenzie Line project areas. We are currently running two operated rigs in our Williams County and eastern Montana project areas and plan to bring on a third rig in the second quarter of 2012. All of these Bakken and Three Forks producers are from horizontal wells which initially flow without artificial lift and subsequently produce with the aid of rod pumps. Consistent with our operating strategy, during 2009 through early 2012, we increased our acreage positions in and around each of our four project areas. Most recently, in January 2012 we closed an acquisition of 3,700 net acres in our McKenzie Line project area. We will continue to lease or otherwise acquire or trade for acreage within and around all of our project areas in the Bakken Shale trend during 2012.
Williams County Project Area (Northwest Williams County, North Dakota) - Our Williams County project area is comprised of 27,800 net acres (primarily operated) in northwest Williams County, where we have lease positions in 91 1,280 acre spacing units. Our average working interest in this project area is approximately 34%. We originated this project and brought in industry partners on a promoted basis in 2010. We retained operations within a specified area of mutual interest. Drilling began in the project area in 2010. As of March 9, 2012, we have drilled 18 operated wells, participated in two non-operated wells and have two wells drilling in this project area. These wells are all in varying stages of completion and production operations. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, total production net to our interest in our Williams County project area was approximately 346 BOE/day and was approximately 96% oil.
Eastern Montana Project Area (Roosevelt and Richland Counties, Montana) - In our eastern Montana project area, we have approximately 12,900 net acres with approximately 9,400 net acres being operated by us and the remainder operated by various industry partners. To date we have drilled one operated well in this project area and have participated in five non-operated wells. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, the total production net to our interest in our eastern Montana project area was approximately 127 BOE/day and was approximately 94% oil.
Mountrail County Project Area (Primarily Mountrail County, North Dakota) - We currently have approximately 9,700 net non-operated acres in our Mountrail County project area with working interests ranging from 1% to 14%. Our principal drilling activities in this area are through Slawson Exploration Company, Inc. (“Slawson”), but we also participate in this area with several other industry participants. We have been a non-operating partner in this project area since 2007. Drilling activities in this project area increased appreciably in 2011 as Slawson and our other operating partners increased their rig counts. To date, we have participated in over 110 wells with Slawson and we have also participated with nominal interests in over 300 wells with other operators in this project area. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, total production net to our interest in this project area was approximately 1,525 BOE/day and was approximately 92% oil.
McKenzie Line Project Area (Primarily McKenzie and Southern Williams Counties, North Dakota) - Our McKenzie Line project area is comprised of approximately 4,300 net acres in McKenzie and southern Williams counties, North Dakota. Our acreage in this project area is primarily operated by Zavanna, LLC, an unaffiliated party. We hold varying working interests in this acreage. As of March 9, 2012, we have participated in the drilling of three wells that are waiting on completion with 1 well currently being drilled.
Eagle Ford Project Area (Southwest Fayette and Northeast Gonzales Counties, Texas)-Our Eagle Ford properties are located principally in southwest Fayette and northeast Gonzales counties of Texas where we are the operator. In southwest Fayette County, we have entered into agreements with an industry partner, which established an area of mutual interest and resulted in a cash receipt of $20 million in 2010 for a 50% undivided interest in our acreage. This agreement provided for our partner to fund 100% of the cost of drilling and completion in the first six wells, in which we retained a 50% interest. The agreement also provides that we are the operator of this project area and allows for additional leasing and an overriding royalty interest to us in certain leases. Our acreage position in the Eagle Ford totaled approximately 23,600 net acres as of March 9, 2012. We have drilled ten wells to date with seven wells currently on production and the remaining three waiting on completion. At present, we have two dedicated rigs under contract and drilling in the project. All of these Eagle Ford producers are from horizontal wells which initially flow without artificial lift and subsequently produce with the aid of gas lift, rod pump or other form of artificial lift. Our net working interests in our Eagle Ford drilling units range from 35% to 55% with an average working interest of approximately 48%. Our initial drilling began in January 2011 and for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, total production net to our interest in the Eagle Ford trend was approximately 176 BOE/day and was approximately 94% oil. Further we believe there are other potentially productive formations across our acreage position in this project area.
Austin Chalk Trend - Given our past and recent successes in the Austin Chalk trend of Texas we are generally working the trend across Texas from the Giddings field, where we have properties in Brazos, Burleson, Fayette, Grimes, Lee, Montgomery and Washington counties to the Brookeland field where we recently acquired properties located in Newton, Jasper, Sabine, Tyler and Polk counties. We intend to expand our Austin Chalk holdings and to further increase our near term and longer term drilling inventory. Much of our acreage is HBP or otherwise held by long-term leases. We believe our holdings across the Austin Chalk trend may provide additional opportunities related to other formations including potentially the Buda, Edwards, Georgetown, Wilcox, Woodbine (Eaglebine) and Yegua formations.
All of these Austin Chalk wells are horizontal producers that initially flow without artificial lift at high rates and subsequently produce through rod pumps, compression, and other production methods.
Giddings Field Project Area (Brazos, Burleson, Fayette, Grimes, Lee, Montgomery and Washington Counties, Texas)-We have an average direct working interest of 36% across our producing properties in this project area. In addition, we are the general partner and own approximately 30% of a limited partnership that has an average 56% working interest with an average 43% net revenue interest in the Giddings field project area. Excluding our southwest Fayette County acreage, our acreage position is approximately 35,000 net acres, with approximately 29,000 net acres held directly and approximately 6,000 net acres held through our interest in a limited partnership. From 2007 to early 2010, when we suspended most of our drilling operations in this project area due to low gas prices, we drilled 16 wells with a 100% success rate. We have an estimated 20 additional Austin Chalk drilling locations and believe the acreage is prospective for the Yegua, Georgetown and other formations. In 2011, we drilled one operated “oily” Chalk well in Grimes County and also participated in another “oily” Chalk well in southwest Fayette County. We anticipate drilling a select number of additional “oily” locations going forward on our southwest Fayette county acreage. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, total production net to our interest in the Giddings field project area was approximately 1,401 BOE/day and was approximately 73% gas. An additional 806 net BOE/day (89% gas) was attributable to our share of the limited partnership.
Brookeland Field Project Area (Jasper, Newton, Sabine and Tyler Counties, Texas) - We entered the Brookeland Field project area in August 2011 through the acquisition of producing properties and 3,700 net acres in Tyler counties for approximately $11 million. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, the production from this portion of the field net to our interest was approximately 314 BOE/day and was approximately 77% gas. We further expanded our presence in this project area in February 2012 through the acquisition of additional producing properties and approximately 170,000 net acres in Newton, Jasper and Sabine counties at a cost of $40.4 million. Our working interests in this project area vary but average approximately 72%. This newly acquired property averaged 914 BOE/day of net production in December 2011 being 24% oil, 28% NGLs and 48% residue gas. However, as the effective date of the acquisition was January 1, 2012, we did not include this production or related revenue and cash flow in our Consolidated Statements of Income of the year ended December 31, 2011.
Other Properties - We also operate conventional legacy properties primarily located in Louisiana, Montana/North Dakota, New Mexico and west Texas, and other areas in the Gulf Coast region. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, all of these properties collectively produce approximately 36% of our total production for the period (72% oil). Many, but not all, of these properties will ultimately become divestiture candidates as we continue our growth in our focus areas. Properties we retain will generally be located near our focus areas and will have upside potential. As we have done with prior divestitures we may only sell shallow rights or unitized zones within these properties and thus retain all or a portion of “deeper mineral rights”, below producing depths, thereby retaining exposure to potentially promising exploratory opportunities. We intend to conduct limited drilling operations on a number of these fields to expand near term production and demonstrate upside potential in order to maximize future divestiture proceeds. The following table indicates our fourth quarter 2011 production rates from these more significant conventional legacy properties.
Title to Properties
It is customary in the oil and gas industry to make a limited review of title to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired. It is also customary to obtain more extensive title examinations prior to the commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped leases or prior to the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties. With respect to the future acquisition of both undeveloped and proved properties, we plan to conduct title examinations on such properties in a manner consistent with industry and banking practices. We have obtained title opinions, title reports or otherwise conducted title investigations covering substantially all of our producing properties and believe we have satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, overriding royalty interests, and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of such properties. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our oil and gas properties (see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources”).
Item 3.