Item 2. Properties. -----------
The Brisas Property ------------------- LOCATION. The Brisas property is in the KM 88 mining region of southeastern Venezuela in Bolivar State, approximately 300 kilometers (186 miles), by a paved highway southeast of Puerto Ordaz. The property, 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles) west of KM 88 on Highway 10, occupies a rectangular area of 2,500 meters (1.5 miles north-south) by 2,000 meters (1.25 miles east-west) or approximately 500 hectares (1,235 acres) and is accessible by an all-weather dirt road.
OWNERSHIP. The Company, through a wholly owned Venezuelan subsidiary, currently owns the mining title to the Brisas alluvial gold concession. The Venezuelan subsidiary has submitted applications for mining titles to the Ministry of Energy and Mines ("MEM") for other mineralization and areas identified as the Brisas property. In particular, the application for the mining title for gold, copper and molybdenum contained in the hardrock or veta (vein) beneath the near- surface alluvial gold concession was submitted to MEM in February 1993 and is currently in the final stages of granting by MEM. The Company believes it has met all of the requirements to obtain the hardrock mining title and is not aware of any fact or circumstance that would prevent MEM from granting the mining title to the Company. The process of obtaining a concession (mining title) in Venezuela is lengthy and bureaucratically complex and no assurances can be given that the Company will be granted the hardrock mining title in the near term.
GEOLOGY. The general geology of the area includes thick sequences of Proterozoic volcanic flows, volcanoclastic sediments and various intrusives of the Guayanan Shield. These rocks were folded, sheared, faulted and metamorphosed during Proterozoic and later events. The prospect pits and mineralization on the Brisas property show a northeasterly regional trend. The mineralization found in the larger existing pits on the property has many geological characteristics similar to other large gold deposits in Precambrian rocks. The rocks identified on the Brisas property consist of two major types of materials--saprolite/clay-hosted surface material occurring in the upper several meters of the property and hard rock tuffs, andesite and volcanoclastics extending below the alluvial material at depth. Gold, copper and molybdenum mineralization are found in both materials, and the mineralization is open at depth.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Extensive exploration work has been on going on the property since 1992, including a regional geophysical survey which outlined the most altered and potentially mineralized areas in the KM 88 region. The most prospective area outlined from the survey encompassed the Brisas property and the Placer Dome/Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (the "CVG") Las Cristinas property to the north. Placer Dome/CVG has announced a mineable reserve on its Las Cristinas property of more than 9 million ounces of gold. Exploration and development activities on the Brisas property include surface mapping, sampling and assaying, geochemical and metallurgical studies. These activities have confirmed that the mineralization is characterized by a large lower grade body with higher-grade
mineralization in certain areas. The mineralization, approximately 1.7 kilometers (approximately one mile) in length and from 400 to 800 meters wide, is on strike and contiguous with the Placer Dome/CVG Las Cristinas deposit to the north.
One of the most significant developments in 1996 was the extension of the Pozo Azul mineralized trend into the Southwest zone, where the Company drilled approximately 30 strongly mineralized holes. In total, the 1996 exploration program included more than 250 exploration and development drill holes totaling approximately 50,000 meters. Generally, drill spacing of the mineralized deposit is 50 meters throughout the significantly mineralized trend, with 25 meters in selected areas. Drilling for condemnation of waste areas is nearing completion on an approximate 300 meter spacing across the concession. On a cumulative basis, the Company has drilled approximately 550 core and auger drill-holes totaling over 100,000 meters.
Recent pit slope stability testwork indicated the potential for allowable pit slopes up to 55 degrees. In addition, preliminary surface and subsurface hydrological test work indicate adequate work conditions with respect to groundwater flow. Environmental studies have been ongoing since the Company acquired the property in late 1992 and, using Venezuelan and North American based environmental consultants, the Company has been preparing studies and reports to support the various Environmental Impact Statements required for the property. The Company has an ongoing program to neutralize rainwater runoff to minimize acid drainage that occurs naturally due to the high sulfur content in the rock and has also been studying reforestation alternatives necessary upon completion of mining activities. The Company is committed to a sound environmental policy to protect the environment
At the present time, conventional open pit mining is contemplated at the Brisas property and preliminary mill design and operating cost estimates are being developed from recent testwork. Initial scoping studies for the mill design are well advanced and currently the mill or recovery plant is estimated to be a simple gravity, flotation, and cyanidation facility with recovery rates for both copper and gold of 85%. The mill will produce gold bullion and gold/copper/molybdenum concentrate. The Company's preliminary estimate of capital costs associated with the Brisas property is approximately $150 million. The mill is expected to cost $120 million with an additional $30 million for ancillary facilities, mining equipment and working capital. Subsequent final metallurgical design criteria and final drill results, together with geotechnical, hydrological and environmental data, will be instrumental in the completion of the feasibility study.
The major focus of the drilling has shifted to development and in-fill drilling related to a final feasibility study, although certain exploration drilling will continue and management expects to drill at least 100 more exploration, development and condemnation drill holes of at least 25,000 meters during 1997. A number of deep drill holes, up to 1000 meters, will also be completed in 1997. Approximately $8 million will be spent on the Brisas property which will include exploration and development drilling, permitting, administration and the necessary work required to complete the Brisas feasibility study.
The feasibility study is expected to be finalized during the early part of 1998. Various permitting required for the Brisas property is ongoing and approval from MEM and the Ministry of Ambiente (Environment) is expected to occur throughout 1998. Detailed engineering work will commence after the receipt of the necessary operating and environmental permits. Management is hopeful that mine and plant construction can commence after the 1998 rainy season, usually lasting from May to July. Construction is estimated to take approximately 18 months, with commissioning and achievement of commercial production by the end of the second quarter of 2000.
Final development of the Brisas property is contingent upon obtaining the mining title to the hardrock or veta area beneath the alluvial concession, results of future drilling, completion of a feasibility study and obtaining the appropriate environmental and operating permits.
MINERALIZED DEPOSIT. The Company has to date announced a gold and copper deposit of 6.4 million ounces of gold and approximately 800 million pounds of copper. The Brisas mineralized deposit consists of 224 million tonnes grading 0.88 grams (0.028 ounces) per tonne gold and 0.16% copper. The Brisas alluvial gold concession contains 10% of the deposit and the hardrock area, for which a mining title has been applied, contains 90% of the deposit. The deposit is defined by approximately 480 holes (50x50 meter spacing with 25 meters in selected areas) and is approximately 1700 meters long and 400 to 800 meters wide. Drilling results indicate the Brisas mineralization is comprised of a northern area characterized as a gold/copper deposit and a southern area characterized as primarily a gold deposit as shown in the following table:
(1) Gold Equivalent (.5 grams/tonne gold equivalent cutoff using $380/ ounce gold and $1/pound copper) (2) Gold Only (.5 grams/tonne gold cutoff)
The Brisas mineralization does not yet qualify as a commercially mineable ore body under standards promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may so qualify only after a comprehensive economic, technical and legal feasibility study has been completed. As a result, the Company has not yet established either proven or probable reserves on the Brisas property and no assurance can be given that any such reserves will be established on the property.
SIGNIFICANT ZONES or AREAS OF INTEREST. In addition to the north/south areas which comprise the Pozo Azul zone and the Southwest zone, a number of other areas of interest have been identified including the El Remo area and the southern part of the property where visible gold has been observed in drill core. Several other areas of exploration are currently being tested and condemnation drilling is also in progress in support of a future final feasibility study.
VENEZUELAN MINING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS. The Company's Venezuelan mining operations are subject to laws of title that differ substantially from those of the United States, and to various mining and environmental rules and regulations that are similar in purpose to those in the United States. The more significant of these laws, rules and regulations are summarized below.
Current Venezuelan Mining Law. ------------------------------ The principal legislation governing the exploration and development of mineral resources in Venezuela is the Mining Law of 1945 and related regulations, administrative decrees and resolutions. The law governs every aspect of mineral exploration, evaluation and extraction throughout the country, and is administered by the MEM, through its Department of Mines.
A chief distinction between the mining laws of Venezuela and those of the United States is the way in which mineral rights are owned and held. In Venezuela, all minerals other than those used in construction are initially owned by the government and can be explored and developed only by state-owned corporations or private entities that have applied for and obtained concessions or permits for such activities. Concessions may be granted for near-surface development (an alluvial concession), subsurface hardrock or vein development (a veta concession) or both.
There are two types of concessions: The first, an exploration and exploitation concession, gives the holder up to two years to explore a property of a maximum of 5,000 hectares (12,355 acres), and the right to choose for exploitation 50% of the area granted in parcels of 500 hectares (1,235.5 acres) each; for that purpose a certificate of exploitation has to be granted by the MEM. The second, an exploitation concession, does not have an exploration period and has an established surface area of up to 500 hectares. Under an exploitation concession, a mining title is granted directly to the holder. In both kinds of concessions, the holders have, in the case of alluvial deposits, three years to initiate exploitation and, in the case of vein deposits, five years to initiate exploitation. During such period, concession holders must submit a technical and economical feasibility study for approval to the MEM within 18 months for alluvial deposits and within 36 months for vein deposits, each case determined from the date of grant of the mining title or of the certificate of exploitation.
Concessions and certificates of exploitation are granted for rectangular lots not larger than 500 hectares (1,235.5 acres), and a single holder cannot be granted a total of more than 10,000 hectares (24,710 acres) of concessions relating to vein deposits and 20,000 hectares (49,420 acres) of concessions relating to alluvial deposits. Usually a concession granted relating to alluvial deposits constitutes a separate concession from a concession relating to the underlying vein deposits. Both concessions grant the holder 20 years to actually complete development of the concession, provided all specified requirements, including compliance with environmental laws, are met. This period can be extended for up to an additional 20 years, through two 10-year extensions, following which all rights to the concession, including improvements, revert to the Venezuelan government. Holders of concessions are required to report their activities to the Department of Mines and must submit to routine inspections by Department representatives to confirm compliance with the law.
All exploration and development activities must be conducted in compliance with applicable mining law, and may be undertaken only by applicants who demonstrate technical and financial capability, undertake to manufacture or refine mined ores in Venezuela, submit to Venezuela's tax laws, agree to share their mining technology with the local mining industry and recognize the reversionary interests of the Venezuelan government in the concession. In addition, an applicant for a concession must agree to certain terms, known as "special advantages", including the amount of royalties or mining taxes to be paid and the extent to which bonds or sureties may be posted to guarantee performance of the applicant's obligations. An applicant may also be required to make certain improvements for the benefit of the concession property and the surrounding area, such as constructing and maintaining access roads, airstrips, schools and medical dispensaries, and must agree to train local employees in modern mining exploration and production techniques.
Venezuela has historically relied on government-owned entities to explore and develop mineral resources, although this practice is diminishing as the government seeks to encourage private investment. In the Guayana region of the country including Bolivar State, for example, the regional Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (the "CVG") and its various subsidiary state-owned companies were granted the exclusive right to explore, evaluate and mine diamond and gold resources not previously awarded as concessions by the MEM. To accomplish this, CVG granted mining contracts to private investors in the region and has engaged in joint venture or other arrangements with foreign and local companies. This right was revoked July 15, 1996. Although the Company's Brisas concession is located in the Guayana region, it was granted by the MEM and is not subject to exploration or development claims by the CVG.
Gold Sales ---------- The Central Bank of Venezuela allows gold mining companies to sell 85% of their production on the international market, the remaining 15% must be sold to the Central Bank at current market price and paid in Venezuelan currency. Gold sold on the international market is levied a minimum mining tax of 3% of the market price, unless the Company agrees to a higher tax by special advantages established in the concession agreement, and the mining tax for gold sold to the Central Bank is 1% of the market price.
Taxes ----- The Venezuelan tax law provides for a maximum corporate income tax rate for mining companies of 34% and allows for certain tax credits, wholesale tax exemption during the pre-operative period and exemptions from certain custom duties.
Venezuela has experienced significant political and economic instability, high inflation, and shortages of foreign currency:
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION. In May 1993, the Venezuelan Senate voted to authorize the impeachment of President Carlos Andres Perez. Subsequently, Rafael Caldera was elected president and took office in February 1994. Upon assuming the presidency, President Caldera was immediately faced with a solvency crisis in the banking system which necessitated a government takeover of nine financial institutions, including Banco Latino, one of the largest Venezuelan banks. Consequently, the bolivar devalued sharply, inflation rose and gross domestic product contracted, though Venezuela experienced positive growth for 1995 and 1996.
On April 22, 1996, the Venezuelan government announced the lifting of controls on foreign exchange transactions, having announced the lifting of controls on interest rates one week earlier. The Venezuelan government also announced a $1.4 billion preliminary loan accord with the International Monetary Fund. Although these actions led to the devaluation of the bolivar and a rise in interest rates and are likely to lead to temporary increases in inflation, they are generally viewed as likely to have a positive effect in the long term. There can be no assurance, however, that such actions will be successful in resolving Venezuela's economic difficulties.
INFLATION AND CURRENCY CONTROLS. Venezuela has experienced high levels of inflation over the past decade. These high rates of inflation led the Venezuelan government to devalue the bolivar by 41% on December 11, 1995. In July 1994, the Venezuelan government imposed a program of currency exchange controls that was lifted in April 1996. Since the devaluation in April 1996, the Venezuelan bolivar has been relatively stable within a trading range of 460 Bs. to 485 Bs. to the U.S. dollar, in spite of high levels of monthly inflation. The official inflation rate in Venezuela for the first nine months of 1996 was 83.7%, and the market consensus is that the inflation rate for the full year will be somewhat above 100%. The Venezuelan Government
expects the inflation rate to decrease to 25% in 1997. Although the lifting of currency controls is expected to lead to increased economic stability in the long term, it is likely to lead to a temporary rise in inflation in Venezuela. Such conditions have not materially adversely affected the Company's operations in Venezuela to date as substantially all of the Company's sources of funding for its Venezuelan operations are denominated in U.S. dollars and the Company does not repatriate funds from Venezuela.
Proposed Mining Law ------------------- For over eight years, the Venezuelan Congress has been evaluating various amendments to Venezuela's existing 1945 mining law. These amendments include, among other items: an easing of costly and time- consuming bureaucratic steps necessary to obtain a concession, coupled with the introduction of a new permitting system; expansion of the area that may be covered by a single exploration concession, and extension of the exploration period to up to seven years; extension of the concession exploitation period from a maximum of 40 years to a maximum of 50 years; a re-evaluation of the method and manner in which mining activities are taxed; granting concessionaires rights to substantially all mineralization contained in surface and deep (hardrock) material; a royalty on gold production of 2%, (1% if sold to the Venezuelan Central Bank) 2% value "at the mine pit" tax for copper and a bidding process for new concessions. The Venezuelan government, the MEM, industry representatives and congressional committees are currently debating the proposed changes to the mining law and there is no indication when or if any of the proposed changes will be adopted. The proposed amendments to the mining law are not expected to substantially affect existing concessions such as the Company's Brisas alluvial concession and hardrock concession under application, or the terms under which such concessions can be explored or developed.
Environmental Laws and Regulations ---------------------------------- Venezuela's environmental laws and regulations are administered through the Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (Ambiente or Environment). Concession holders who seek to develop a mineral property must first obtain a permit granting them the right to occupy the territory for mining purposes and then submit a report outlining the environmental impact of the development and the rehabilitative or reconditioning work to be undertaken once development activities are concluded. The Ministry also prescribes certain mining recovery methods deemed harmful to the environment and monitors the concessionaire's activities to ensure compliance. The Company has presented an environmental audit of the alluvial concession and the first and second phase of an environmental impact study to the ministry (through its Brisas subsidiary), and will soon submit the third phase of the study. The Company also expects to submit an environmental impact statement to the Ministry addressing development and reclamation of the deeper mineralization which is beneath the Brisas concession when, and if, the Company's application for the veta concession is granted. Alternatively, the Company may amend the existing environmental study to include the effect of mining the deeper mineralization.
Item 3.