Item 2. Properties -- The Brisas Property -- Development).
INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF DATA COLLECTION. In August 1997, Behre Dolbear & Company, Inc. of Denver, Colorado completed an audit of the data collection procedures used by the Company at its Brisas property. The audit concluded that the Company's technical data collection procedures meet or exceed accepted industry standards, assay laboratories provided reliable and acceptable results and the drill results database compiled by the Company at the Brisas property is of a quality appropriate for utilization in a mineral deposit or reserve calculation for inclusion in a feasibility study suitable for obtaining financing from financial entities. Despite the results of this audit, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop or maintain profitable operations at the Brisas property. (See Item 2. Properties -- The Brisas Property -- Exploration).
INCREASE IN MINERALIZATION. In June 1997, the Company announced that additional drilling at the Brisas property increased the mineralized deposit by 900,000 ounces of gold and 150 million pounds of copper to 7.3 million ounces of gold and 950 million pounds of copper. The Brisas mineralized deposit is over 1,900 meters long and 500 to 900 meters wide and is defined by 737 drill holes, primarily on a 50 by 50 meter grid, amounting to over 155,000 meters of drilling. The future establishment of proven and probable mineral reserves is subject to the successful completion of a positive feasibility study. Despite the initial findings contained in the pre-feasibility report, there can be no assurance that the feasibility study, once complete, will prove that the mineral deposits can be economically mined at the Brisas property. (See Risk Factors -- No Established Reserves and Item 2. Properties -- The Brisas Property -- Planned Development).
RISK FACTORS ------------ Potential investors should carefully evaluate all of the information contained and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the following:
NO ESTABLISHED RESERVES. Extensive exploration work has been ongoing on the Brisas property since 1992 and has identified a mineralized deposit estimated at 7.3 million ounces of gold and approximately 950 million pounds of copper. The Company has commenced but not yet completed a feasibility study for the Brisas property and, as a result, has not yet established proven and probable ore reserves nor determined whether the deposit represents a commercially mineable ore body. Such mineralization will not qualify as a commercially mineable ore body under standards promulgated by the SEC until the economic viability of the project is established by the completion of a final, comprehensive, economic, technical and legal feasibility study based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries and other factors. References to estimates contained in the pre-feasibility report do not represent an assertion by the Company of the existence of commercially mineable ore reserves on the Brisas property. If the feasibility study does not conclude that the deposit on the Brisas property is economically mineable, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Reserve estimation is an interpretive process based on drilling results and experience as well as estimates of ore characteristics and mining dilution, metal prices, costs of mining and processing, capital expenditures and many other factors. Actual quality and characteristics of ore deposits cannot be fully assessed until ore is actually mined. Reserves change over time to reflect actual experience. Grades of ore processed at any time also may vary from reserve estimates due to geologic variations within areas mined. Production may vary from estimates because of changes in reserves, variations in ore mined from estimated grade and metallurgical characteristics, unexpected ground conditions, mining dilution, labor actions, and government restrictions. Cash costs may differ due to variations in reserves and production estimates, unexpected mining conditions, and changes in estimated costs of equipment, supplies, utilities and labor and exchange rates. Noncash estimates, based on total capital costs and reserve estimates, change based on actual amounts of capital incurred.
RECURRING LOSSES. The Company has no revenue from mining operations and has experienced losses from operations for each of the last five years. The aggregate loss for the five years ended December 31, 1997 was $29.3 million including a 1994 litigation settlement of $22.5 million, related to an ownership dispute of the Brisas property. (See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). The Company expects to continue to incur losses from operations for the next several years as the result of, among other factors, increased expenditures associated with the management of exploration and development activities on the Brisas property as well as other exploration expenses not associated with the Brisas property. Management expects this trend to reverse if and when the Brisas property is developed and gold and copper are produced in commercial quantities, but there can be no assurances such production will occur.
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT. The Company's estimate of capital expenditures for the project on the Brisas property is based on currently available information as outlined in the pre-feasibility report and, as it is not unusual in new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during development, costs could increase depending upon a number of factors within and beyond the Company's control. The capital cost estimates contained in the pre-feasibility report are based on operating experience, expected production, estimates by and contract terms with third-party suppliers, expected legal requirements, feasibility reports by Company personnel and independent contractors, and other factors. Factors involved in estimated time for completion of projects include management's experience in completing capital projects, estimates by and contract terms with contractors, engineers, suppliers and others involved in design and construction of projects, and estimated time for government entities to process applications, issue permits and take other actions. Changes in any of these factors may cause costs and time for completion to vary significantly from estimates.
Management could determine that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to sell the Brisas property to another mining company for development, or to enter into a joint development or similar arrangement with another company to develop the Brisas property and thereby reduce the economic risk to the Company were it to proceed with development on its own. The Company has not entered into discussions with any other mining company in this regard, nor has it shared any of its exploration data. Whether the Company would pursue any of these alternatives to commercial development of the Brisas property cannot presently be determined.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS. The Company's mining operations are presently concentrated in Venezuela. At December 31, 1997, approximately 55 percent of the Company's identifiable assets (90 percent of its noncash and investment assets) were located in Venezuela. In the past, inflation and other economic conditions in Venezuela have, on occasion, resulted in political and social turmoil, but to date, such conditions have not adversely affected the Company's operations. Nonetheless, the Company's future operations and investments could be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation, judicial decisions and laws or policies of Venezuela and the United States affecting trade, investment, taxation and other factors. The Company's development time schedule and future reclamation and remediation cost estimates are based on existing and expected legal requirements, past experience, cost estimates by the Company and others, and expectations regarding government action and time for government agencies to act, all of which change over time and require periodic re-evaluation. Whether and to what extent current or future economic, regulatory or political conditions may affect the Company cannot be predicted. (See Item 2. Properties -- Venezuelan Mining, Environment and Other Matters -- Political and Economic Situation).
RISKS INHERENT IN THE MINING INDUSTRY GENERALLY. The Company is subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, cave-ins, flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement weather. Such risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties and production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays, monetary losses and legal liability. The Company does not presently maintain insurance covering environmental or other catastrophic liabilities, and is not expected to do so unless it is economically feasible. Insurance against environmental risks (including pollution or other hazards resulting from the disposal of waste products generated from exploration and production activities) is not generally available, on an economic basis, to the Company or other companies in the mining industry at present. Were the Company subjected to environmental or other liabilities, the payment of such liabilities would reduce the funds available to the Company. Were the Company unable to fund fully the cost of remedying an environmental problem, it might be required to suspend operations or enter interim compliance measures pending completion of remedial activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. Venezuela maintains environmental laws and regulations for the mining industry which impose significant obligations on companies doing business in the country. Venezuela's environmental laws and regulations are administered through the Ministry of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (the "MARNR"). Concession holders who seek to develop a mineral property must first obtain a permit granting them the right to occupy the territory for mining purposes and then submit a report outlining the environmental impact of the development and the rehabilitative or reconditioning work to be undertaken once development activities are concluded. The Company has been issued a permit to occupy the Brisas property for both the alluvial and hardrock concessions and has presented a number of environmental studies and information to the MARNR relating to the Brisas alluvial concession. The Company also expects to submit an environmental impact statement to the MARNR and MEM addressing development and reclamation of the entire Brisas property. There can be no assurance, however, that the MARNR will grant the necessary permits to the Company in a timely manner, if at all. (See Item 2. Properties -- Venezuelan Mining, Environment and Other Matters).
The Company's development time schedule and future reclamation and remediation cost estimates are based on existing and expected legal requirements, past experience, costs estimates by the Company and others, and expectations regarding government action and time for government agencies to act, all of which change over time and require periodic re-evaluation.
The Brisas property is located within the Imataca Forest Reserve (the "Imataca"), which is comprised of 3.6 million hectares in the State of Bolivar. In 1986, Presidential Decree No. 1046 authorized an area (in which the Brisas property is located) in the southwestern part of the Imataca for mining exploration and exploitation activities. In May 1997, Presidential Decree No. 1850 was issued to identify the uses and
activities allowed in the Imataca. Prior to the issuance of Decree No. 1850, mining activity outside of the area authorized by Decree No. 1046 had been denied environmental authorization. Since Decree No. 1850 was issued, several motions were submitted to the Venezuelan Supreme Court (the "Court") by different parties challenging Decree No. 1850 as unconstitutional and in violation of certain international agreements and other regulations and requesting a preliminary injunction to make Decree No. 1850 unenforceable until the motions are definitively decided by the Court. In addition, the Court was also petitioned to declare null and void all other regulations allowing mining activities within the Imataca, including activities pursuant to Decrees No. 1046 and No. 845.
On November 13, 1997, the Court granted temporary injunctive relief to the original plaintiff challenging Decree No. 1850, prohibiting the MEM from granting new concessions pursuant to Decree No. 1850. The Court's rulings specifically related to Decree No. 1850 and excluded other challenges to Decrees No. 1046 and No. 845. The November 13, 1997 ruling by the Court did not affect the previously issued Brisas alluvial concession and did not prohibit the MEM from granting the Brisas hardrock concession to the Company under current decrees and/or regulations different from Decree No. 1850. Although the Company was granted the Brisas hardrock concession in March 1998, there can be no assurance that the ongoing challenges to mining activities in the Imataca will not adversely affect the Brisas hardrock concession or the Brisas alluvial concession. If either concession is rescinded or limited, the Company's planned operations would be materially adversely affected. The Company has been advised by its Venezuelan attorneys that it is unlikely that future rulings by the Court related to this issue will impact the Company, but there can be no assurance that an adverse ruling that affects the Company will not occur.
FLUCTUATING PRICES OF GOLD AND COPPER. The Company, the price of its Common Stock and its business plan, are significantly influenced by the price of gold and copper. Gold prices often vary widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control, such as inflation or lack thereof, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, and the political and economic conditions of major gold producing countries throughout the world. Copper prices also fluctuate and are generally affected by global and regional demand and existing inventories. The volatility of gold and copper prices is illustrated in the following table which sets forth the average of the daily closing price for gold and copper for the periods indicated:
(1) On the London Bullion Market. As of March 13, 1998, the closing price for the metals described above were: Gold: $296 per ounce, Copper: $0.75 per pound.
DEPENDENCE ON FINANCING ACTIVITIES. The Company has no revenue from operations and has financed its mining activities in Venezuela since 1992 primarily from the sale of its Common Stock. Management anticipates that the Company's cash position of approximately $28 million at December 31, 1997, together with proceeds, if any, to be received from the future exercise of outstanding options, will be sufficient to cover estimated operating and capital expenditures, primarily those associated with the completion of the feasibility study of the Brisas property, into 1999. The Company's cash position at December 31, 1997 excludes $4.5 million held in escrow and payable by the Company upon the satisfaction of certain conditions (primarily the publication of the issuance of the Brisas hardrock concession to the Company by the MEM) in connection with the 1994 litigation settlement related to an ownership dispute of the Brisas property. The Brisas hardrock concession was published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Venezuela on March 3, 1998 and the funds in escrow were released to the defendant in the litigation on or around March 20, 1998. There can be no assurance, however, that actual operating and capital expenditures will not exceed levels currently estimated by the Company. In addition, the Company will need to obtain significant additional financing if and when construction on the property commences and the Brisas property is placed into production. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing or commercially reasonable terms, if at all. (See Recurring Losses and Item 2. Property -- Brisas Property -- Planned Development).
KEY PERSONNEL. The Company is dependent upon the abilities and continued participation of certain key management personnel. If the Company were to lose the services of such employees, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
ITEM 2. Properties ------------------ THE BRISAS PROPERTY ------------------- LOCATION. The Brisas property is located in the KM 88 mining district of southeastern Venezuela in the State of Bolivar, approximately 373 kilometers (229 miles), by paved highway, southeast of Puerto Ordaz. The property, 3.5 kilometers (1.5 miles) west of the KM 88 marker on Highway 10, occupies a rectangular area of 2,500 meters (1.5 miles) north-south by 2,000 meters (1.25 miles) east-west or approximately 500 hectares (1,235 acres) and is accessible by an all-weather road.
OWNERSHIP. The Brisas property consists of the Brisas alluvial concession, the Brisas hardrock concession beneath the alluvial concession, other applications for mineralization (primarily nominal values of copper and silver) in the material contained in the alluvial concession and other mineralization (primarily gold, copper and molybdenum) on small land parcels contiguous to the existing alluvial and hardrock concessions.
The Company acquired Brisas in 1992 (which has held the Brisas alluvial concession since 1988) and submitted an application for the Brisas hardrock concession in February 1993. On December 3, 1997, the MEM issued a resolution ordering the issuance of the mining title for
the Brisas hardrock concession. The resolution, which was subsequently published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Venezuela (the official government publication), approved the map of the area under application, instructed the Company to pay nominal taxes to the government and ordered the issuance of the hardrock concession to Brisas. Pursuant to the terms of the resolution, the Company completed all stipulated requirements for issuance of the concession. The Brisas hardrock concession was published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Venezuela on March 3, 1998.
The Brisas alluvial concession is a production concession granted in 1988, with an original term of twenty (20) years, with two renewal periods of 10 years each, at the discretion of MEM, and a three percent (3%) tax on sales of gold production outside of Venezuela. The Brisas hardrock concession is a production concession with a term of twenty (20) years with two subsequent renewal periods of 10 years each, at the discretion of the MEM. The hardrock concession provides for a four percent (4%) tax on sales of gold production outside of Venezuela and a seven percent (7%) mine mouth tax on copper production. Gold sold directly to the Central Bank of Venezuela (the "Central Bank") is taxed at one percent (1%). (See Venezuelan Mining, Environment and other Matters).
REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE. The project site is located in the Guayana region, which makes up approximately one-third of Venezuela's national territory. The nearest main city is Puerto Ordaz, with 600,000 inhabitants, situated on the bank of the Orinoco River near its confluence with the Caroni River. Puerto Ordaz has major port facilities, accessible to ocean-going vessels from the Atlantic Ocean, via the Orinoco, a distance of about 200 km. Puerto Ordaz is the center of major industrial developments in the area, including iron and steel mills, aluminum smelters, iron and bauxite mining and forestry. These industries are supported by major dams and hydroelectric generating plants on the Caroni River, which provide 12,900 MW of electricity. The CVG power authority, Electrificacion del Caroni C.A. ("EDELCA"), is planning the construction of a 400 kV power line south from Puerto Ordaz into Brazil. The route runs through the community of Las Claritas, nearby the project, and is expected to supply sufficient power for both Placer Dome Inc.'s Las Cristinas and the Company's Brisas property. The Company understands that the project is expected to be completed before the end of 1999. There can be no assurance, however, that the power line will be completed as planned, if ever. If the power line is not completed as planned, the Company will be required to obtain alternative sources of electrical power, which may significantly increase the capital costs to the Company and have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Puerto Ordaz is a modern urban center with good road and air connections to the rest of Venezuela. There are regularly scheduled flights to Caracas and other major cities several times daily. There are also port facilities 428 km northwest of Puerto Ordaz on the Caribbean coast. Guanta, near Barcelona, would likely be the port of entry for most construction, mining and milling equipment. The port facilities at Puerto Ordaz are generally dedicated to serving the bulk handling requirements of the area's basic industries. However, Puerto Ordaz has potential for the development of facilities for the export
of copper concentrates in bulk. The highway system within Venezuela is generally good, with paved roads in good condition providing access to within 3.5 km of the Brisas property. Four-lane highways run from Puerto Ordaz both northwest to Barcelona and Guanta, and for 55 km south to Upata.
GEOLOGY. The Brisas property occurs within a Proterozoic granite- greenstone terrain of the Guayana shield. The shield covers eastern Colombia, southeastern Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana and northeastern Brazil. The terrain is a thick section of andesite to dacite volcanics that are intruded by numerous granitic stocks and batholiths. Several periods of deformation, metamorphism and mineralization can be documented within the terrain. The rocks at the Brisas property are a thick series of andesite tuffs that have been intruded by a monzonite stock. The tuffs strike northerly and dip uniformly to the west at about 35 degrees. The mineralization is stratabound within a 200-meter thick series of tuffs. The local mineralization has characteristics similar to those of other large deposits in Precambrian rocks of volcanogenic sulfide and structurally controlled deposits. Three styles of mineralization are seen: (1) massive pyrite-chalcopyrite-gold mineralization and pyrite-chalcopyrite-gold cemented breccias in the Blue Whale, (2) stratabound, disseminated pyrite-gold+/-copper mineralization, and (3) calcite-epidote-pyrite+/-gold+/-copper veins and veinlets, often high grade and found both within and above the stratabound mineralization. There are two major types of material on the property: a saprolite clay hosted alluvial material occurring in the top 30 to 50 meters of the property and hard rock dacitic tuffs, basalts and andesite porphyry of the Lower Proterozoic age. Gold, copper, silver and molybdenum mineralization are found in both zones. There are two general categories of rock units: weathered and unweathered rock. Weathered rock is further defined by degree of oxidation and mineral replacement due to surficial weathering. Unweathered rock is further defined by lithology into various subdivisions of volcanic tuffaceous units or intrusive units. The mineralization in the northern half of the deposit is copper-gold with copper decreasing to the south until in the southern portion of the deposit, the copper is a minor constituent of the mineralization. Deep drilling along the western edge of the property has confirmed the downward extension of the stratabound mineralization.
EXPLORATION. Historically, surface and alluvial mining by local miners helped identify gold mineralization on the property. Exploration by the Company at the Brisas property commenced in late 1992. Initial work by the Company included regional geophysical surveys that identified an anomaly covering part of the Brisas property. Exploration and development activities on the Brisas property prior to 1997 included surface mapping and geochemical sampling, exploration and development drilling, assaying, petrology and mineral studies, and metallurgical sampling. Exploration and development drilling prior to 1997 also included 92,591 meters of drilling in 538 core and auger holes. These activities confirmed the presence of a large deposit of stratabound gold-copper mineralization. The mineralization defined is approximately 1.9 km (approx. 1.2 mile) along strike and 500 to 900 meters wide. Scattered drill holes to the
west of the main body of the deposit demonstrate that mineralization continues for an unknown distance down dip to the west. This gold- copper mineralization does not currently constitute proven or probable reserves under standards promulgated by the SEC. (See Risk Factors -- No Established Reserves and Item 2. Properties -- Brisas Property -- Planned Development).
Activities in 1997 included significant exploration and development drilling, sampling and assaying, third party audit of data collection procedures, metallurgical sampling and testing, and various engineering studies in anticipation of the final feasibility study. These engineering studies included pit stability studies, surface and ground water hydrological studies, a third party ore reserve methodology audit, environmental studies and site topographical studies. Drilling in 1997 included approximately 66,000 meters of core from 218 holes bringing the total drilling to date to 159,000 meters in 756 core and auger holes. The drilling increased the size of the deposit by defining mineralization down dip and southwest from the 1996 mineralization. The Company intends to continue exploration in the future on the Brisas property by surface mapping and sampling, and by drilling. Some mineralized areas have been intersected below the current mineralized deposit.
Behre, Dolbear & Company, Inc. conducted the independent audit of data collection procedures. The purpose of the study was to review and confirm the adequacy and acceptability of the data collection procedures used by the Company to establish the database for completing future ore reserve estimates at the Brisas property, if any. Behre Dolbear & Company, Inc. concluded that: technical data collection procedures meet or exceed accepted industry standards; assay laboratories provide reliable and acceptable results; and the database being compiled by the Company at the Brisas property is of a quality appropriate for utilization in a mineral deposit or ore reserve study suitable for obtaining financing.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. In July 1997, the Company engaged JE MinCorp, a Division of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and a number of other independent consultants to prepare a feasibility study on the Brisas mineralized deposit. A feasibility study is an economic-based analysis of a mineralized deposit that serves as the basis for a mine plan for the extraction of gold and copper from that ore body on an economically viable basis. The initial stage of the study, a pre- feasibility report, was completed in February 1998. The report included a "Base Case" analysis of the proposed project assuming $375 per ounce gold and $1 per pound copper as well as additional sensitivity analyses using $350 and $300 per ounce gold and $.90 and $.80 per pound of copper, respectively. The pre-feasibility is preliminary and based on a number of assumptions which are subject to change. Since the Company has not completed its final feasibility study on the property, proven and probable reserves have not been established under standards promulgated by the SEC. (See Item 1. Business -- Risk Factors).
The pre-feasibility study concluded that, assuming a gold price of $375 per ounce, copper price of $1.00 per pound and assuming open pit mining methods, the Brisas property is estimated to contain a mineralized deposit consisting of approximately 249.2 million tonnes with an average grade of 0.70 grams of gold per tonne and 0.14%
copper. The estimate of mineralization uses an internal cutoff grade of 0.40 grams per tonne gold equivalent and assumed waste rock material of 419.2 million tonnes, resulting in a strip ratio of 1.68:1 (waste to mineralization). Total material expected to be moved is estimated to be 668 million tonnes. The mineralization was calculated from 737 diamond drill holes representing 155,000 meters of drilling. Alternatively, assuming a gold price of $350 and $300 per ounce and copper price of $0.90 and $0.80 per pound, the Brisas property is estimated to contain (based on a preliminary Whittle pit design) approximately 239.3 and 177.1 million tonnes with an average grade of 0.71 and 0.80 grams per tonne gold and 0.14% and 0.12% copper, respectively. The pre-feasibility report estimates that the Company may achieve gold recovery at 83 percent and copper recovery at 73 percent at the Brisas property, but there can be no assurance that such rates can be achieved or, if achieved, maintained.
The following charts represent, as determined by the pre-feasibility report, an estimation of mineralized material assuming certain gold and copper prices and open pit mining methods. The Company has not completed its final feasibility study. Therefore, the Brisas mineralized deposit does not yet qualify as a commercially mineable ore body under standards promulgated by the SEC and may so qualify only after a positive comprehensive economic, technical and legal feasibility study has been completed.
Based on the pre-feasibility report, and contingent on positive completion of the final feasibility study the Company plans to develop on the Brisas property a large scale open pit mining operation consisting of drilling, blasting, loading, and truck haulage to carry ore to the crusher and waste to the waste repository. The Company estimates that the plant would process 55,000 tonnes per day, yielding an estimated average annual production of as much as 335,000 ounces of gold and 38.3 million pounds of copper, over a mine life of 14.2 years. There can be no assurance, however, that such production will occur at such levels, if at all.
The processing flowsheet contained in the pre-feasibility report and developed from metallurgical testwork completed by three independent laboratories includes conventional crushing with a primary gyratory
crusher and grinding with SAG mill and ball mills followed by gravity separation to recover coarse gold, flotation and cyanidation of cleaner flotation tailings. Based upon the results of the pre- feasibility report, the Company expects the final products of the operation on the Brisas property to be a gold copper concentrate and gold dore. The Company expects to transport the concentrates to Puerto Ordaz and then ship them to a smelter for final processing.
Operating supplies are expected to be imported, probably from North America. Electrical power is expected to be available from a major new transmission line which is planned to run south from Puerto Ordaz into Brazil, passing within a few kilometers of the Brisas property. There can be no assurance, however, that the power line will be completed as planned, if ever. If the power line is not completed as planned, the Company will be required to obtain alternative sources of electrical power, which may significantly increase the capital and operating costs to the Company and have a material adverse affect on the Company. (See Regional Infrastructure). Abundant water is available in the area, and the Company expects project requirements to be met by water pumped from the pit de-watering system, and by rainfall stored in the tailings water pond. On site accommodations will be provided for employees, who will be drawn from both the local area and from the industrialized area around Puerto Ordaz. (See Venezuelan Mining, Environment and Other Matters--Labor).
Behre Dolbear & Company, Inc. recently completed an independent review of the Company's mineralized deposit modeling and ore reserve methodology utilized for the pre-feasibility report. They concluded that estimating techniques used were an accurate representation for the reserves; drill hole spacing was sufficient to generate future estimates of proven and probable reserves; and the database was correct and reliable. This recent study compliments Behre Dolbear's audit of sampling and assaying procedures at the Brisas property, completed in August 1997.
The pre-feasibility report estimates that base case initial capital required to bring the Brisas property into commercial production at the planned 55,000 tonnes per day will be approximately $293 million. Ongoing life of mine capital requirements are estimated at $53 million and working capital needs are estimated at $15 million. The ultimate design of the plant is subject to the results of the final feasibility study, and there can be no assurance that the final study will conclude that the planned operation will be economically feasible. Construction of the planned facility is expected to take approximately 18 months, with commissioning and achievement of commercial production expected shortly thereafter. Under the timetable presently contemplated by the Company, initial production would commence no earlier than mid 1999, with full production expected to commence no earlier than January 2001. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will begin or complete such construction according to this schedule, or that, if completed, the facility will begin commercial production as planned.
Base case pre-feasibility report estimates of pre-tax operating cash costs, including mining, processing, concentrate transportation, smelting and refining expenses, total $222 per ounce of gold net of copper revenues. Total pre-tax costs per ounce of gold produced including life of mine capital are estimated at $295, excluding previously incurred sunk cost of approximately $38 million or approximately $8 per ounce. Exploitation taxes and royalties add approximately $9 per ounce of gold to the total cost per ounce. The base case pre-tax net present value of the project (assuming $375 per ounce of gold and $1.00 per pound of copper) at zero percent is $354.9 million with an internal rate of return of 11.8%.
OUTLOOK. The major focus of the Company in the upcoming twelve to fifteen months will be permitting, securing additional sites required for process facility infrastructure and the completion of the final feasibility study. A period of one year is anticipated in the overall project schedule for permitting as well as completion of the final feasibility study, but there can be no assurance that these items will be completed as planned. In addition, continuation or completion of metallurgical testing, geotechnical and hydrological investigations, electrical power supply and concentrate sales agreements, and development and condemnation drilling will occur prior to completion of the final feasibility study. It is estimated that an additional $4 million will be spent for completion of the final feasibility study.
Venezuelan Mining, Environment and Other Matters ------------------------------------------------ The Company's Venezuelan mining operations are subject to laws of title that differ substantially from those of the United States, and to various mining and environmental rules and regulations that are similar in purpose to those in the United States, but more bureaucratically complex. The complexity of the Venezuelan mining laws is due to the numerous changes in and interpretations of mining statutes, some of which are generally considered outdated, and is further complicated by the necessity to acquire a number of concessions and/or contracts to secure all of the necessary rights to explore and mine a particular parcel of land. The following is a summary of the more significant Venezuelan mining and environmental laws and other laws and regulations that may affect the Company's operations on the Brisas property, but does not purport to be a comprehensive review of all laws or a complete analysis of all potential regulatory considerations related to the Brisas property.
CURRENT VENEZUELAN MINING LAW. The principal legislation governing the exploration and development of mineral resources in Venezuela is the Mining Law of 1945, which has been supplemented through the years by various presidential, governmental and ministerial decrees, resolutions and interpretations (in its current form, the "Mining Law"). The Mining Law defines mining rights and concessions, and establishes standards for obtaining, exploring, evaluating, producing and extinguishing a concession. The Mining Law also requires that each concession be specific as to the minerals covered (gold, copper, silver, molybdenum, etc.) and area (near surface mineralization ("alluvial") or subsurface mineralization ("hardrock or veta")).
Originally, the Mining Law provided for staked concessions as well as concessions issued at the discretion of the MEM. However, in 1977, the claim-staking provisions of the law were effectively eliminated by a presidential decree that reserved all minerals exclusively for Venezuela. Also, from January 1991 until July 1996, certain legislation granted CVG and its various subsidiaries the exclusive right in the State of Bolivar to explore, evaluate and mine diamonds and gold not previously awarded as MEM concessions. Consistent with this exclusive right, CVG attempted to exploit the potential resources of the region through mining contracts granted to private investors or joint venture arrangements with foreign and local companies. Most of those contracts or joint venture arrangements have been recognized as valid by the MEM and are still in force.
The Mining Law creates three types of concessions, but only two types of concessions are common. The first, an exploration and production concession, grants the holder up to two years to explore a property, and an additional year (three years total) to start production on an alluvial concession and three additional years (five years total) to start production on a hardrock concession. The second, a production concession, does not provide for an exploration period, but it does have the same three and five year production requirements as stated above. A technical and economic feasibility study must be submitted to the MEM for approval within 18 months for alluvial concessionaires and within 36 months for hardrock concessionaires. Holders of concessions are required to report their activities to the MEM and must submit to routine inspections by MEM representatives to confirm compliance with the Mining Law.
Although the Mining Law specifies a term of 40 years for concessions and a one-percent mining tax on all minerals except diamonds, the MEM has enhanced the benefit to Venezuela through Resolution 115. As outlined in this resolution, certain "special advantages" must be offered to Venezuela for an applicant to be granted a concession. These special advantages require that the concession applicant agree to certain additional terms, which might include a reduction in the life of the concession, an increase in the amount of royalties or mining taxes to be paid and the extent to which bonds or sureties must be posted to guarantee performance of the applicant's obligations. In addition, applicants may also be required to make certain improvements for the benefit of the concession property and the surrounding area, such as constructing and maintaining access roads, airstrips, schools and medical dispensaries, and must agree to train local employees in modern mining exploration and production techniques.
PROPOSED MINING LAW. The Venezuelan Mining Committees in the Senate and House of Representatives have, for a number of years, been debating separate proposals that would either amend the existing Mining Law or create a new mining law. Throughout most of 1997, as in prior years, there was considerable debate, but little progress toward passing a law that is acceptable to industry, the MEM and Congressional Mining Committees. The Mining industry is lobbying for its own draft of a new mining law, which would return the provisions for claim-staking as provided in the original Mining Law. Other
important changes would include all minerals in one concession, include both alluvial and veta mineralization in one concession, provide longer exploration periods and would require competitive mining tax rates and royalty rates, as compared to other countries that have an active mining industry. Because 1998 is an election year and interested parties have not yet agreed on terms of a possible new law, the Company believes, and has been advised, that it is unlikely that a new mining law will be passed in 1998.
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Venezuela's environmental laws and regulations are administered through the MARNR. The MARNR proscribes certain mining recovery methods deemed harmful to the environment and monitors concessionaires' activities to ensure compliance. Before the Company can begin construction and production at the Brisas property, it must obtain three different permits from the MARNR: (1) Permit to Occupy the Territory ("Occupation Permit"), (2) Permit to Affect for Exploration ("Exploration Permit") and (3) Permit to Affect for Construction and Exploitation ("Exploitation Permit"). Although not consistently applied in the past, regulations state that the MEM will apply for and obtain the Occupation Permit on behalf of those persons or entities applying for concessions before granting the concession title. Applicants submit an environmental questionnaire to MEM, which they in turn submit to the MARNR. The exploration permit for which Brisas applies for annually, is an authorization to perform only those activities relating to exploration, such as drilling, building of camps, cutting lines and trenching. The production permitting process is initiated by filing the proposed terms of reference, which when approved, will serve as the basis for an Environmental Impact Study (EIS). The format for the EIS is stipulated in a 1996 law (decree #1257) and conforms to an international standard. (See Item 1. Business -- Risk Factors -- Environmental Matters).
The Company holds the Occupation Permit for the Brisas alluvial and hardrock concessions and plans to continue to apply for additional permits as further development dictates. The Company believes that the alluvial and hardrock concessions should be exploited as one project. Because the law treats each concession separately, the Company plans to initiate discussions with the MEM and MARNR to seek alternatives to the duplication of environmental studies and permitting. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's efforts to reduce such duplication will be successful.
TAXES. The Venezuelan tax law provides for a maximum corporate income tax rate on mining companies of thirty-four percent (34%). This rate applies to net income over approximately $32,000 depending on exchange rates. Other Venezuelan taxes that apply or may eventually apply to the Company's subsidiaries include a one percent (1%) tax on paid-in- capital (equity), a sixteen and one-half percent (16.5%) luxury goods and wholesale tax, which applies to goods and services, municipal taxes, which vary from one tenth of one percent (.1%) percent to ten percent (10%), import duties on mining equipment, which range from five (5%) to twenty (20%) percent, surface taxes, which are currently
set at less than $1 per hectare per concession, and exploitation taxes, which range from one percent (1%) to seven (7%) percent depending on the metal and whether it is sold domestically or exported. The Company's Brisas subsidiary currently pays luxury goods and wholesale taxes on certain purchases within Venezuela and expects that taxes on revenue generated from the future sale, if any, of gold to the Central Bank of Venezuela will result in a refund of these taxes. To date, the Company has paid approximately $1 million of luxury goods and wholesale taxes. Venezuela offers certain exemption from the luxury goods and wholesale taxes and import duties to mining companies. The Company will apply for these exemptions in 1998.
Certain local municipalities including the Municipality of Sifontes, in which the Brisas property is located, have proposed plans to impose certain taxes on mining activities. The mining industry has challenged the municipalities' right to impose such taxes on the basis that the nation has reserved exclusive right to tax mining activities. In an action favorable to the mining industry, the Court has granted an injunction, which prohibits the collection of such taxes by the municipalities.
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION. Venezuela has experienced high levels of inflation over the past decade. These high rates of inflation led the Venezuelan government to impose currency exchange controls in July 1994, which were lifted in April 1996, and to devalue the bolivar in December 1995 by approximately 40%. In July 1996, two months after lifting the exchange controls, the Central Bank announced a "crawling band" exchange policy whereby the bolivar would be allowed to fluctuate in a band of plus or minus 7.5 percent of its central parity. Central parity was determined by a devaluation of 1.5 percent per month. The Central Bank has not followed this schedule, however, and the bolivar may be overvalued by 30 percent to 75 percent based on various estimates. With an anticipated increase in GDP of five percent, an inflation rate of 38 percent (compared to 103 percent in 1996), and the tremendous success of the oil opening, 1997 was a positive year for Venezuela's economy. In spite of the successes in 1997, a number of challenges remain including reorganization of the judicial system, signing of the Tax and Bilateral Investment Treaties with the United States and full implementation of the government's plan to meet IMF criteria for loan approval known as "Agenda Venezuela."
GOLD SALES. The Central Bank allows gold mining companies to sell up to 85 percent of their production on the international market. The remaining 15 percent must be sold to the Central Bank at the current market price, which is paid in Venezuelan currency. Gold sold on the international market is typically levied a minimum mining tax of 4% of the market price unless the Company agrees to a higher tax by special advantages established in the concession agreement. The mining tax
for gold sold to the Central Bank is 1 percent of the market price. Gold sales to the Central Bank will be paid in bolivares that can be converted to US dollars at the prevailing exchange rate. The US dollars can be then transferred outside of Venezuela. Gold sales to the Central Bank will result in a recovery of some, if not all, of the 16.5% luxury goods and wholesale tax paid as incurred. Gold contained in the concentrate shipped outside of Venezuela for further processing does not need to be considered for the required minimum gold sales to the Central Bank.
LABOR. Venezuela has enacted extensive labor laws and regulations. During 1997 Venezuela entered into major agreements with the public and private sectors on new social security laws, which are expected to improve benefit plans for employees. The Company plans to fill as many positions as possible with Venezuelan nationals. It is anticipated that, in the initial stages of the Brisas project, approximately 95 percent of the workforce will be Venezuelan. In order to maintain or exceed this level, the Company will implement an extensive training program over the life of the project on the Brisas property. The Company plans to draw on Venezuela's large industrial base to staff many of its positions, but the experience base for large-scale mining and milling operations in Venezuela is limited. The Brisas project will draw on the Puerto Ordaz area to fill a significant portion of its staffing requirements. The Company plans to staff all management and engineering positions out of Puerto Ordaz, and the Company believes that, of the remaining lower level positions, only one-third will be filled from the local (Las Claritas) area.
ITEM 3.