Item 2 for a description of the Company's properties. During 1996 the Company's name was changed to Golden Triangle Industries, Inc. to reflect the expansion in the Company's core business from oil and gas royalties to its broader base of activities.
In June 1997, the Company acquired a property in Texas (the "Altair Property"), covering 2,738 acres which contained materials and facilities readily convertible to use by the Company. This property is also suitably located to support expansion of oil field services into a new geographic area. During 1998, the Company expanded its operations at the Altair with trucking and equipment services, oil reclamation plant, and sand and gravel sales. See Item 2. Properties (b) Altair Property, for additional information.
The following definitions are provided to clarify certain terms used in this report:
Authority to Prospect ("ATP") - a concession granted by the State of Queensland, Australia, which entitles its holder to an exclusive right to explore for oil and natural gas in Queensland in the particular area covered by the ATP. See Item 2(d), "Oil and Gas Properties - Australian Properties" for additional information.
Gross Production - the total production of oil, gas, or natural gas liquids from a property or group of properties for any specified period of time.
Net Royalty Acre - generally, a measurement of royalty or overriding royalty and the equivalent of the full customary one-eighth royalty of the gross production or revenue free and clear of exploration, drilling and production costs from one acre of land. The number of net royalty acres used in this report applies to figures as of December 31, 1998, and the number will change as relinquishments take place on the ATPs, as an ATP expires or is canceled, or any new areas are added.
Overriding Royalty Interest ("ORRI") - an interest carved out of the lessee's leasehold or working interest. The amounts payable from ORRIs are payments calculated as a percentage of either gross production or the gross revenues of the working interest (based on the wellhead price) from a concession or lease, usually free and clear of all exploration, drilling and development, and production costs, except for any applicable taxes and federal levies. In calculating the wellhead price, pipeline and trucking costs have already been deducted from the refinery price. The overriding royalties discussed herein are generally expressed as a percent of the gross production.
Royalty - generally, a share of the production reserved by the grantor of an oil or gas lease or concession. The royalty interest is customarily free of cost or expense incident to exploration, development or production, except for production or gathering taxes. The royalty is part of the consideration for the grant of the lease or Authority to Prospect.
Working Interest ("WI") - all or a fractional part of the ownership rights granted by a concession or lease. The owner(s) of a WI or a part thereof pays the costs of operations and is entitled to the gross production, less royalties retained by the grantor or lessor, and less ORRIs or other non operating interests created and assigned from the working interest. The owner of a WI may incur operating expenses in excess of income.
Carried Working Interest - a WI assigned to a third party (or third parties)who has agreed to pay all of the costs of drilling, equipping, and
operating the underlying lease until they have recouped all of their costs or some other contractual amount from the revenues of the lease (referred to as the time of payout) . At the time of payout, the interest is reassigned back to the original owner who then shares pro rata in the ongoing costs and revenues as a regular WI owner.
(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments
In the fiscal year ending December 31, 1998, the Company's revenues, operating profits, and identifiable assets were attributable to its salt water disposal and oil field service operations, acquisition and ownership of interests in oil and gas leases, and rental of Company assets. (See Items 6 and 8, "Selected Financial Data" and Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements at Item 8.)
(c) Narrative Description of Business
General - Salt Water Disposal and Oil Field Services
Through several of its subsidiaries, GTII is engaged in the salt water disposal business, with injection facilities located in the top gas producing counties in Texas. The oil industry of the United States produces more salt water than oil, and governmental regulations require any salt water produced from oil or gas wells to be injected back into the ground in another salt water bearing zone to protect all fresh water zones from being contaminated. Producers separate the salt water from the produced gas and oil and truck the salt water from locations at which it is produced to GTII's disposal sites. There the water is collected in storage tanks and then injected back into a suitable formation. A fee is charged per barrel or per load for this service. The collection of accounts receivable from oil and gas producers for the Company's salt water disposal and oil field services represents a risk factor in this service business.
During 1998, approximately 44% of the Company's revenues attributable to this line of business were billed to a single customer, TransTexas Gas Corporation. Another 18% was billed to a second long-time customer, Med Loz Trucking. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business as a whole. Management does not foresee the loss of these customers, but continues to take steps to expand the business into other areas and gain additional customers to prepare for this possibility. In addition, the Company has sold all of its reclaimed oil to a single entity. These sales were 24% of total revenues. Mechanical problems with a disposal well, surface owners not renewing a lease, or a competitor installing a new disposal facility in the Company's service area are other risk factors associated with salt water disposal operations generally. GTII has not encountered any problems of this nature in its operations to date and does not anticipate that any such developments are likely to be encountered in connection with its operations in the near future.
The continued profitability of the salt water disposal and oil field service business is dependent upon stable or increased oil and gas prices causing additional oil and gas production in the Company's service area. This business is also subject to environmental considerations and must comply with governmental regulations. See "Governmental Regulation" below.
During 1998 and the two prior fiscal years, the Company's salt water disposal and oil field service business has contributed $2,139,843, $2,003,993, and $2,239,670 or 68%, 81%, and 90% of total consolidated revenues. During the same time period, oil and gas revenues have contributed $258,725, $448,359, and $311,221 or 8%, 18%, and 13% of total consolidated revenues. Sales of reclaimed oil contributed 24% of total revenues in 1998.
See Item 2(a) Properties Attributable to Salt Water Disposal and Oil Field Services for more complete information.
General - Oil and Gas
The majority of the Company's oil and gas properties are royalty interests or ORRIs. Working interests account for less than 5% of the Company's revenues from oil and gas properties.
The acquisition, exploration, development, production and sale of oil and gas are subject to many factors that are outside the Company's control. These factors include market prices; national and international economic conditions; import and export quotas; availability of drilling rigs, casing, pipe, and other equipment and supplies; availability of and proximity to pipelines and other transportation facilities; the supply and price of competitive fuels; and the regulation of prices, production, transportation, and marketing by domestic and foreign governmental authorities. Additionally, the Company generally has no control over whether the owner or operator of leases to which its ORRI or working interests are attributable will elect to explore for oil and gas on such
properties, or to develop them following discoveries that may occur. Each of these factors may affect the rate at which oil and gas are produced on properties in which the Company has an interest or affect whether wells will be drilled on such properties, and could otherwise materially affect GTII's earnings from this line of business. Australian concessions, discussed below, require that minimum prospecting expenditures be incurred during their four year term. Some concessions from prior years have not been developed and are not producing revenues. The Company does not serve as the operator of properties under which it owns working interests. However, it does bear the risk of fire, blowout or other catastrophe to such properties in proportion to the fractional share owned in the properties to the entire working interest of such properties. The operators of these properties may carry insurance against some of these risks but may not be fully insured due to prohibitive premium costs or coverage being unavailable. Such risks are not borne by the Company on oil and gas leases in which the Company owns an ORRI or royalty interest.
The sections which follow describe the impact of competition and governmental regulation on the Company's salt water disposal and oil field service and oil and gas properties lines of business, as well as the impact of foreign currency regulation and foreign taxes on earnings from oil and gas properties located outside the United States.
Competition
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive in all of its phases, with competition for favorable producing royalties and overriding royalties being particularly intense. In the salt water disposal business, salt water disposal wells operated by other companies, as well as oil and gas producers adding their own injection wells, provides competition. An awareness of these factors, causes the Company to seek to provide the best possible services at competitive prices. There are no limitations on entry into the business of providing oil field support services. As the Company has moved in this direction, it has recognized this fact by providing its services at competitive rates and constantly monitors the market for adjustments in its pricing structure that might be required The Company believes that price, geological and geophysical skill, and familiarity with an area of operations are the primary competitive factors in the identification, selection, and acquisition of desirable leases, both for salt water disposal and oil and gas interests. When attempting to purchase interests in such properties, the Company competes with independent operators and occasionally major oil companies, a number of which have substantially greater technical and financial resources than the Company.
Governmental Regulation
Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing waste, environmental quality, pollution control, conservation and other measures regarding environmental and ecological matters. The Company's salt water disposal business is operated under permits from the Texas Railroad Commission and the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in interruption or termination of the operations. Additionally, upon cessation of use, disposal wells must be plugged and the sites cleaned up to applicable standards. It is impossible to predict the impact of environmental legislation and regulations on the Company's operations and earnings in the future. However, compliance could require the Company to make capital expenditures and could adversely affect earnings.
The Company's operations could also be affected from time to time by other federal, state and local laws and regulations and by political developments. The domestic production and sale of oil and gas are subject to federal regulation by the Department of Energy and the Federal Energy Regulation Commission. Rates of production of oil and gas have for many years been subject to federal and state conservation laws and regulations. In addition, oil and gas operations are subject to extensive federal and state regulations concerning exploration, development, production, transportation and pricing, and even to interruption or termination by governmental authorities. Removal of import duties on oil entering the U.S. has had an adverse affect on the domestic oil industry.
In foreign countries, the Company may be subject to governmental restrictions on production, pricing and export controls. Regulations existing or imposed upon the Company or its properties at the time of their acquisition may change to an unpredictable extent. The Company will have little or no control over the change of regulations or imposition of new regulations and restrictions, expropriation or nationalization by foreign governments or the imposition of additional foreign taxes. Management believes that these actions are unlikely to be undertaken by the governments of Australia or Queensland, where the majority of the foreign oil and gas properties from which the Company receives royalty income are located.
Foreign Currency
Due to the nature of the Company's activities in Australia, portions of the Company's operating capital may at times be held in various foreign currencies. The Company does not maintain a bank account in Australia. However, the Company does have receivables from Australian oil production. These receivables are accrued in U.S. dollars based on production. The existence of revenues generated under a foreign currency subjects the Company to a limited risk of currency fluctuation and changes in rates of conversion for different currencies. Any fluctuations in the value of the accrued receivables and actual receipts have been immaterial. The Company does not engage or expect to engage in any hedging or other transactions that are intended to manage risks relating to foreign currency fluctuations. Additionally, revenues generated in foreign countries in which the Company has or may acquire interests may be subject to governmental regulations which restrict the free convertibility of such funds, and all remittances of funds out of these countries might require the approval of the applicable government's exchange control agency. Presently, the Company experiences no difficulties with the free convertibility of funds from Australia. In the Company's opinion, the foreign exchange control laws currently in effect in Australia do not unreasonably delay the remittance of funds generated in Australia to the United States.
Foreign Taxes and United States Tax Credits
As a result of its royalty and working interests attributable to properties outside the United States, the Company is subject to the imposition of taxes by foreign governments upon the Company's income derived from such foreign jurisdictions. These taxes are of various types, with differing tax rates, and are subject to change. Generally, the Company's income from a foreign jurisdiction will be taxed in the same manner as that for other companies operating in the jurisdiction, but discriminatory taxation by a particular jurisdiction may occur. The current corporate income tax rate in Australia is 30% of net profits.
The Company's income is also subject to taxation under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The Code provides that a taxpayer may obtain a tax credit for certain taxes paid to a foreign country or may take a deduction for such taxes. A tax credit is generally more favorable than a deduction. However, the particular tax circumstances create differing benefits in varying situations. The tax credit applicable to particular foreign income arises when such income is included in the Company's taxable income under the provisions of the Code. There are, however, substantial restrictions and limitations on the amount of the tax credit that can actually be claimed. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at Item 8.
Employees
At March 15, 1999 the Company and its subsidiaries employed thirty-nine individuals (including the executive officers).
(d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations
See Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements at Item 8.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
(a) Properties Attributable to Salt Water Disposal and Oil Field Services
GTII currently owns seven salt water disposal facilities. Salt water is produced along with oil and gas, and governmental regulations require the salt water to be disposed of in an environmentally safe manner. The Company is in the primary business of injecting the salt water back into the ground into another salt water bearing zone to protect all fresh water zones from being contaminated. The Company is paid a fee on a per barrel or per load basis for this service by the oil and gas producers whose operations produce the salt water that requires disposal.
GTII acquired its first salt water disposal property, OCR Investments, Inc. (OCR), located in the Zapata/Laredo area of Texas, during 1993. During 1994, the Company acquired Transcon Energy Corporation (Transcon) which owned and operated three disposal facilities in the same general area as OCR. Transcon, like OCR, provides salt water disposal services for oil field operations in an area of active drilling for deep gas.
Because of the favorable results from its salt water disposal facilities in 1994, GTII continued expanding this business during 1995 by purchasing the County Line Disposal facility, and opening a new disposal facility, OCR's Chihuahua facility. During 1996 the Company acquired the Amando Disposal Facility, granting the seller an option to repurchase it at any time within five years, and during 1997, the seller, TransTexas Gas Corporation, exercised its option. Upon exercise of the option, TransTexas paid cash of $410,913, and agreed to make improvements, which the Company valued at $269,000, to the Altair property (see (b) Altair property).
GTII acquired a new saltwater disposal facility near El Campo, Texas, during 1997. This new facility, named Transcon Spanish Camp, is located near producing gas wells. This facility was placed into service during the first quarter of 1998.
With the exception of Transcon Spanish Camp, all of GTII's disposal sites are located in the Texas counties of Webb and Zapata. Based on reports published annually by the Texas Railroad Commission, the Company understands that Webb County produces more gas than any other Texas county, while Zapata County varies in rank between second or third from year to year. As there are few other facilities located in the two county area, GTII benefits from limited competition. Based on reserve estimates published by the U.S. Department of Energy, and publicly available information on the volume of gas produced annually from the two county area, the Company believes that production could continue at the present rate for twenty years or more, provided the price of natural gas remains at a level that is sufficient to support such production. In summary, the Company believes that gas production, along with the associated salt water production in GTII's service area, should be substantial for years to come. GTII's total revenues from disposal fees as described above, and other oil field service revenues (described in the following paragraph) totaled $2,139,843 during 1998.
In addition to salt water disposal services, the Company provides oil field services such as heavy equipment rentals, trucking services, fresh water supply, back filling drilling mud pits, sand blasting, and steam cleaning. Additional information on the salt water disposal business is available at "Narrative Description of Business" under "General - Salt Water Disposal and Oil Field Services."
Subsequent to repurchasing the Amando disposal facility from the Company, TransTexas sold a significant portion of its gas producing properties in the Zapata area, including the Amando facility, to a purchaser that has apparently elected to develop its own salt water disposal facilities. As a result, the Company has seen some reduction in activities at some of its facilities. The future impact on salt water disposal operations in this area is not determinable at this time.
(b) Altair Property
During 1997, GTII acquired the Altair, a 2,738 acre property, located approximately 45 minutes from Houston, Texas, for a purchase price of $1,096,100. This property is located in an area of active oil and gas production and sits along a trend line which has seen significant recent exploratory drilling. Existing assets included approximately 90% of mineral rights, fresh water supplies, a substantial quantity of stockpiled sand and gravel, two usable buildings, and areas suitable for lay down yards for drilling companies. The property also contains sand and gravel which are available for excavation/mining and six plugged gas wells. The Company plans to exploit the undeveloped sand and gravel reserves and to re-evaluate the production potential of the gas wells. The prospects of leasing the property for exploration of deeper zones indicated by geological trends across the area is also expected to be examined.
Beginning in the last quarter of 1997, the Company earned revenues from this property from rental of its buildings and lay-down areas, sales of fresh water, and sales of sand and gravel. Because of its location, the Company has also established and received revenues from an oil reclamation plant and oil field service business based on the rental of heavy equipment for oil field use. The oil reclamation plant, established in the last quarter of 1997, is designed to accept oil generated from saltwater disposal and other off-grade or unwanted oil, run it through a blending process, and sell it to oil refineries. This facility is presently the only one of its type in the surrounding area.
GTII increased revenues during 1998 further with its new trucking and equipment services based at the Altair. With the purchases of additional trucks, trailers and bulldozers, the Company is providing the following services to oil and gas operators: equipment moving, vacuum services, oil transportation, drilling pad construction and leasing of equipment. GTII also plans to construct a saltwater disposal facility on the property and is considering other potential activities. During the last quarter of 1998 the Company signed a contract for the sale of sand and gravel from the Altair. The contract will pay royalty payments of $0.80 per ton on sand that is stockpiled and $0.50 per ton for sand that is mined. Every six months the royalty payment will be adjusted if necessary to compensate GTII if the average sales price of sand increases. GTII will be paid $0.70 per ton for any gravel that is mined from the Altair. Management estimates
that there are approximately 2 million tons of sand currently stockpiled with an additional 8-12 million tons that can be mined. In addition, there are approximately 5-8 million tons of gravel that can be mined. GTII began receiving revenues from the sand and gravel contract subsequent to the year end (first quarter of 1999).
(c) Apache Ranch
GTII owns the 13,500 acre Apache Ranch which adjoins the Mescalero Indian Reservation and ski resort area near Ruidoso, New Mexico. To date, activity related to this ranch property has included land sales (financed by the Company) in 1995 and 1996, revenues from cattle grazing leases in the 1995-1998 period, and hunting permits in 1996. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at Item 8.
(d) Oil and Gas Properties
General
As of December 31, 1998, the Company owned royalty interests, ORRIs and working interests attributable to oil and gas wells located in the United States, Canada, and Australia. In the United States, the Company's interests are located in the states of Arkansas, Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, and Mississippi. The majority of the Company's oil and gas interests are royalties or ORRIs. The Company also holds working interests in the United States and in Australia.
Most of the U.S. leases under which the Company owns interests provide that such leases will continue in existence as long as oil and gas are produced on the related properties. The duration of the Australian concessions in which the Company owns interests is discussed generally in the following section.
Australian Properties
A significant portion of the Company's oil and gas properties consists of ORRI under ATPs granted by the State of Queensland, Australia. The Company currently has ORRI under eleven such ATPs. Each of these ATPs has an initial term of four years. The area covered by an ATP is reduced by relinquishment of approximately one-fourth of the area at the start of the third year of its effectiveness and an additional one-fourth of the original area at the start of the fourth year of its effectiveness. The area to be relinquished is chosen by the holder of the ATP. An ATP does not require that any specific work, such as drilling or geological or geophysical work, be performed by the holder, but does require that the holder continuously prospect and expend a specified minimum sum over the term of the ATP for such prospecting efforts. Applications for renewal may be filed at the time of expiration of an ATP.
The Company has ORRI in 1,923,716 net royalty acres under 23,791,200 gross surface acres in Australia. Unlike working interests, ORRIs do not require that the Company bear any portion of exploration or drilling expenses to develop the property. In addition, the Company holds 117,300 net working interest acres under 1,564,000 gross working interest acres.
Oil revenues from Australia during 1998 totaled $195,150 from ATP 267 and ATP 299, before transportation costs to market of $86,811. No revenues were generated by the other ten ATPs during 1998.
Reserves
The majority of the Company's reserves are attributable to properties in which the Company owns ORRI and royalty interests. Data necessary for the computation of reserve estimates for such properties is not available to the Company without the incurrence of unreasonable effort and expense. If estimates of proved reserves were available for such properties, the Company believes that reserves attributable to ATP 299 in Australia would account for the majority of the proved oil reserves attributable to these interests. The working interest holders of the properties under which the Company holds royalty interests and ORRIs have not supplied the Company with information deemed necessary for meaningful reserve calculations. Most of the Company's domestic royalty interests are small, and the Company is of the opinion that obtaining information necessary for meaningful reserve calculations for these interests would involve unreasonable effort or expense. Oil production attributable to the Company's royalty and ORRIs provided approximately 95% of the Company's income attributable to oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 1998.
Since the Company's working interests provide only a small percentage (5%) of the Company's total income attributable to oil and gas properties, it was determined that unreasonable effort and expense would be required to prepare a reserve report on the properties to which these interests relate. See "Supplementary Data for Reserves of Oil and Gas" under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
No estimates of total proved oil or gas reserves were filed by the Company with, or included in reports to, any federal authority or agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year.
Average Sales Price and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the average sales price per unit of oil and gas production. Sales prices are based on market prices determined at the point of delivery from the producing unit. Production or severance taxes have not been deducted in determining the average sales price, but rather are included as part of production costs. No sales prices of gas are shown for Australia because the Company had no production of gas in Australia during the relevant reporting periods. The average production (lifting) costs per unit of production are not presented because the majority of the Company's oil and gas revenues are attributable to royalties and ORRIs. The nature of these interests does not require that the Company bear any portion of the production or lifting costs. Additionally, the operators of the leases under which the Company's working interests exist have not provided the Company with information concerning production (lifting) costs. The Company's working interests are small, the Company is not an operator of wells or leases, and the Company is of the opinion that obtaining information necessary for disclosure of production (lifting) costs would involve unreasonable effort or expense.
United States Australia Average Sales Price Average Sales Price Fiscal Year Ended Oil Gas Oil ----------------- ------ ------ ------- December 31, 1998 $12.22 $ 1.82 $US15.23 December 31, 1997 $19.21 $ 1.82 $US20.55 December 31, 1996 $20.43 $ 1.91 $US21.72
WORKING INTERESTS - DOMESTIC
Productive Wells and Developed Acreage
The Company's assets and revenues attributable to its domestic working interests are not material. The interests held are quite small and the Company has determined that the costs incurred to obtain and analyze the information normally required to be presented would be unreasonable. As a result this information has been omitted.
Non-Productive Acreage
GTII holds a 30% interest in approximately 11,787 acres of long-term leases located in the Overthrust Belt in Arizona. The primary prospect in this lease play is the Cochise Overthrust Prospect. Along with other working interest owners, GTII intends to farm out the interest to a third party, who would assume the costs of drilling and developing the properties. Under such arrangements, GTII et al would attempt to recover out-of-pocket expenses while retaining an overriding royalty interest.
WORKING INTERESTS - AUSTRALIA
The table below sets forth the undeveloped acreage in Australia in which the Company held WI as of December 31, 1998. Working interests are acquired by the Company with the intention to farm out operations while retaining an ORRI or carried working interest. GTII's Net Gross Working WI Area Acres Interest Acres ---- --------- -------- ------ 538 1,104,000 7.5% 82,800 554 460,000 7.5% 34,500
Recent Developments - WI
Subsequent to the year end, the Company acquired a 20% working interest in an entity seeking six concessions surrounding and in the immediate Cooper- Eromanga Basin, one of the most prolific oil and gas producing areas in Australia. These six concessions cover approximately 4,397,000 gross acres. Santos Ltd., as well as other major oil and gas companies, are very active in and around the Cooper-Eromanga Basin.
Subsequent to the year end, Dyad-Australia, Inc. entered into an agreement with a major U.S. energy concern whereby significant exploratory work will be funded on ATP 554P including new seismic acquisition and the drilling of at least one exploratory well. The specific terms are subject to a confidentiality agreement; however the exclusive right to market all hydrocarbons from ATP 554 was assigned to that major U.S. energy concern. GTII's ultimate economic interest in ATP 554 will depend on the level of expenditures by the parties to the agreement and on the level and timing of partial reimbursement of expenditures by Dyad and GTII. At present GTII holds a 7.5% interest which is subject to an immediate reduction to 4.875% as a result of the funding arrangement.
ROYALTY AND OVERRIDING ROYALTY INTERESTS - DOMESTIC AND CANADA
The Company owns royalty interests and ORRIs in oil and gas wells primarily located in the states of Arkansas, Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Mississippi, and Texas. During 1996, the Company acquired ORRIs in four producing wells in Texas and four producing wells in Mississippi. During 1997, the Company acquired ORRIs under two production units in Canada. These production units consist of the consolidation of numerous leases and, between the units, contain more than 200 wells. The Company had no ORRIs in undeveloped acreage in the United States, as of December 31, 1998.
Also see (d) Oil and Gas Properties - General.
OVERRIDING ROYALTY INTERESTS - AUSTRALIA
The following table sets forth the ATP number of each Australian concession in which the Company had an ORRI as of December 31, 1998 and upon which productive wells had been drilled, the percentage interest of the Company therein, the number of such wells, the gross acreage of each concession, and the net royalty acres held in each concession. GTII's Net Area & Gross Royalty Royalty No. of Wells Acres Interest Acres - ------------------ ------- ---------- ------- 267 - 21 oil wells 552,000 2.6064700% 115,102 299 - 65 oil wells 588,800 1.6364559% 77,084
The following table sets forth the undeveloped acreage in which the Company had ORRIs in Australia as of December 31, 1998.
GTII's Net Gross Royalty Royalty Area Acres Interest Acres ---- ------- -------- -------- 333* 92,000 0.200% 1,472 415 680,800 1.463% 79,681 538 1,104,000 0.623% 55,023 542 1,932,000 1.200% 185,472 543* 1,545,600 0.500% 61,824 550 552,000 0.500% 22,080 560* 846,400 0.800% 54,170 582 6,716,000 1.000% 537,280 615 9,181,600 1.000% 734,528
*Reserves have been discovered on these concessions, but production has not begun due to transportation and marketing considerations. GTII looks forward to increased revenues when these wells come on line.
The total of the producing and non-producing acreage in Australia under which GTII holds ORRI interests is 1,923,716 net royalty acres under 23,791,200 gross surface acres.
Recent Developments - ORRI
After record years in 1996 and 1997 with twenty-eight successful oil wells completed on ATP 299, Santos, the operator controlling the prospect, continued a successful drilling program in 1998 with the completion of seven more new oil wells. Following is a list of the new wells completed as producers: Kooroopa North #2, Ipundu #13, Ipundu #14, Ipundu #15, Ipundu North #11, Talgeberry #7, and Ipundu #4A.
There are now 65 wells in twelve different fields on ATP 299 from which GTII receives revenues. GTII acquired additional interests in ATP 299 during 1997, bringing GTII's ORRI in this ATP to 1.6364559291% of gross production, less transportation costs. Each oil field has numerous undrilled locations, indicating upside potential for the further development of ATP 299.
GTII also purchased additional interests in ATP 267 during 1997 bringing GTII's total ORRI in ATP 267 to 2.60647% of gross production, less transportation costs. There are currently 21 producing oil wells on this concession from which GTII receives revenues.
In addition to the drilling success on ATP 299 during 1998, seismic surveys were conducted on three concessions where GTII holds interests. A 50 kilometer seismic survey was completed on ATP 267, a 153 kilometer seismic survey was completed on ATP 299, and a 176 kilometer seismic survey was completed on ATP 543. Two unsuccessful wells were drilled, one on ATP 267 and one on ATP 415.
The Company understands that there have been less than 7,000 wells drilled in the entire country of Australia, which is basically the same size as the continental United States. Current technology coupled with better understanding of the geology has led to substantial discoveries both onshore and offshore Australia.
(e) Office Facilities
The Company's corporate office was located at 8504 Sonoma Valley N.E., Albuquerque, New Mexico 87122 through a portion of 1998, and then moved to its present location at 6314 Aspen Cove Court, Sugar Land, Texas 77479. The office is leased from Kenneth Owens, Chairman of the Board and President. In addition, the Company has offices in Zapata, Texas and on the Altair property. Rent in the amount of $10,000 was paid to Kenneth Owens in 1998 for these facilities. The Company also has an office at 104 Fossil Court, Springtown, Texas 76082, which handles the stock transfer agent duties and other duties for the Company. No rent payments were made in 1998 for these facilities. The Company believes its office facilities are adequate for the next year.
ITEM 3.