ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
At December 31, 1995, the Trust owned and the Corporation operated and managed, a portfolio of hotel assets, including fee, ground leasehold and first mortgage interests. At such date, all but four of the Trust's fee and ground leasehold hotels were leased to the Corporation or its subsidiaries pursuant to leases between the Trust and the Corporation (the "Intercompany Leases").
As described in Item 1 of this Joint Annual Report, upon the closing of the Reorganization, substantially all of the properties and assets of the Trust were contributed to the Realty Partnership and substantially all of the properties and assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries (except for their gaming assets, which are to be contributed upon approval by Nevada gaming authorities) were contributed to the Operating Partnership.
Accordingly, since the Reorganization, the Trust has conducted substantially all of its business and operations through the Realty Partnership and the Corporation has conducted substantially all of its business and operations (other than its gaming operations) through the Operating Partnership. As of the date of this Joint Annual Report, the Trust had an approximate 69.9% interest in the Realty Partnership and the Corporation had an approximate 69.9% interest in the Operating Partnership.
THE TRUST AND THE REALTY PARTNERSHIP
Equity Investments. As of December 31, 1995, the Trust had equity investments in 35 properties (including two hotel/casinos) containing a total of over 7,100 guest rooms. As of that date, the Trust owned fee interests in 30 hotels (including two hotel/casinos), held three hotels pursuant to ground leases, owned one hotel partially in fee and partially pursuant to a ground lease, and also had a 5% equity interest in, and was the general partner of, a limited partnership that owns the Omaha Marriott Hotel which contains 303 guestrooms. See Note 11 to the Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Joint Annual Report. Of the 35 hotels in which the Trust had an equity interest at December 31, 1995, 23 operate under one of the following nationally recognized names: Sheraton(R),
Marriott(R), Doubletree(R), Omni(R), Radisson(R), Embassy Suites(R), Holiday Inn(R), Residence Inn(R), Days Inn(R), Best Western(R) and Vagabond Inn(R).
Each of the Intercompany Leases provides for the lessee's payment of annual minimum rent in a specified amount plus additional rent based on a percentage of the gross revenues (or items thereof) of the leased property. The Intercompany Leases have an average remaining term of four years. The Intercompany Leases are "triple-net" - i.e., the lessee is generally responsible for paying all operating expenses of the hotel property, including maintenance and repair costs, insurance premiums and real estate and personal property taxes, and for making all rental and other payments required pursuant to any underlying ground leases. As lessee, the Operating Partnership retains all of the profits, net of rents and other expenses, and bears all risk of losses, generated by the hotel property's operations.
In addition to the Intercompany Leases, the three Vagabond Inns are leased to a third party and such leases expire in 2001, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The lease expiring in 2001 contains options to extend the term of the lease for two additional five year periods. Each of these leases provides for the payment of percentage rent equal to 26% of room revenues against specified minimum rents. The leases are "triple net."
The following table sets forth the 1995, 1994, and 1993 average occupancy, room rates, revenue per available room ("REVPAR") and certain other information concerning the hotels owned by the Trust as of December 31, 1995:
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) "Year constructed" represents the calendar year in which construction of the property was completed; "Year acquired" represents the calendar year in which the Trust (or a predecessor) made its initial investment in the property.
(2) Property is held subject to ground leases expiring in (assuming that renewal options are exercised) 2019.
(3) Property is leased to Imperial Hotels Corporation.
(4) ADR and occupancy for 1993 and 1994 are not available.
(5) The Trust is the general partner of, and owns a 5% equity interest in, the limited partnership which owns the property.
(6) Property is held subject to a ground lease expiring in 2029.
(7) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in October 2007, which is terminable by the ground lessor after September 1, 1999 upon six months' notice under certain circumstances.
(8) Property is subject to a ground lease expiring in September 2008, which is terminable by the ground lessor after September 1, 1999 upon six months' notice under certain circumstances.
Mortgage and Other Notes Receivables. At December 31, 1995, in addition to the three promissory notes related to the Milwaukee Marriott referred to below, the Trust held eighteen promissory notes either contributed by the Starwood Partners as part of the Reorganization or executed by third-party purchasers of its hotels, all of which are secured by mortgages (including deeds of trust) on thirteen hotels in the aggregate. Eleven of the notes ($104.1 million in aggregate principal amount at December 31, 1995) are secured by first mortgages; five notes ($1.6 million in aggregate principal amount as of December 31, 1995) are secured by second mortgages; one note ($1.3 million in principal amount as of December 31, 1995) is secured by a third mortgage; and one note ($173,000 in principal amount as of December 31, 1995) is secured by a fourth mortgage. Ten of the notes have fixed interest rates that currently range from 7.0% to 10.0% per annum and five of the notes have variable interest rates that range from 7.16% to 9.75% per annum at December 31, 1995. The remaining three notes require principal payments only. Two of the notes also provide for contingent interest based on a percentage of the gross revenues of the properties securing such notes. The maturity dates of the notes range from 1996 to 2017.
For additional information with respect to certain of the third-party promissory notes and the three promissory notes held by the Trust and issued by a partnership affiliated with the Corporation in connection with the Milwaukee Marriott Hotel, see Notes 8 and 9 of Notes to Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Joint Annual Report.
In December 1987, in connection with the Corporation's acquisition of the leasehold interest in two Atlanta, Georgia area hotels owned by the Trust (which have been subsequently sold) from an affiliated partnership, John F. Rothman, former president and chief executive officer of the Trust and general partner of the partnership, assumed certain obligations of such partnership, which obligations are evidenced by an unsecured promissory note to the Trust in the principal amount of $800,000. Interest on the outstanding principal amount of this note accrues interest at an annual rate of 10% and is payable annually; the entire principal amount of the note is due in December 1999.
All of the notes described above were contributed by the Trust or the Starwood Partners to the Realty Partnership in connection with the Reorganization.
THE CORPORATION AND THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP
At December 31, 1995, 28 of the 31 hotel properties leased by the Trust to the Corporation were operated directly by the Corporation, and the remaining three were managed by three independent hotel companies. The Operating Partnership, the general partner of the partnership that owns the Milwaukee Marriott, also operates the Milwaukee Marriott.
The following table sets forth the 1995, 1994 and 1993 average occupancy and room rates, REVPAR, and certain other information concerning the hotel in which the Operating Partnership is the general partner, Milwaukee Marriott Hotel, as of December 31, 1995.
Management Agreements. Each management agreement with a third party provides that the management company has the exclusive right to direct the operations of the hotel subject to that agreement. The management company is responsible for maintaining and making all necessary repairs to the managed hotel, hiring, training and supervising all hotel employees, and performing all hotel bookkeeping and other administrative duties.
Each management company is required to submit to the Operating Partnership for its approval an annual budget that includes proposed capital expenditures, and the management company makes only those capital expenditures that are approved by the
Operating Partnership. The Realty Partnership is required to make available to each management company sufficient working capital to permit that company to operate the managed property.
For their services in managing the hotels, each third party management company receives a management fee equal to a specified percentage (generally 2% - 2-1/2%) of the gross revenues of the managed hotel, plus additional incentive fees based upon the hotel's operating profits. Two of the management agreements expire in 1998 and one expires in 1999. Of the remaining four third-party management agreements currently in place, two are expected to be terminated in early 1996 and management of the underlying properties assumed by the Operating Partnership.
Franchise Agreements. All but twelve of the hotel properties in which Starwood Lodging had an equity interest at December 31, 1995 are operated pursuant to franchise or license agreements ("Franchise Agreements"). The Franchise Agreements generally require the payment of a monthly royalty fee based on gross sales and various other marketing fees associated with certain marketing or advertising and centralized reservation service funds, usually based on gross sales. Such fees may vary among individual hotels within a franchise system based on the type of marks, restaurants or other aspects of the franchise system used.
The Franchise Agreements generally contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, the operation and maintenance of the hotels which are established by the franchisors to maintain uniformity in the system created by each such franchisor. Such standards generally regulate the appearance of the hotel, quality and type of goods and services offered, signage, and protection of marks. Compliance with such standards could require significant expenditures for capital improvements.
Ongoing training costs, requirements to purchase only from approved suppliers, financial reporting requirements, insurance requirements and various covenants not to compete imposed upon the franchisee are other common terms in the Franchise Agreements. Required insurance usually must cover both the franchisor and franchisee with respect to certain specified liabilities, must fall within certain approved coverage limits and be written by an approved insurance company.
The Franchise Agreements generally require the consent of the franchisor to a transfer of an interest in the applicable franchise, and both the consent of the franchisor and the execution of a new franchise agreement in the event of a transfer of all or controlling portion of the franchisee under the relevant Franchise Agreement. In addition, some franchise agreements may require payment of an initial fee upon establishment of a franchise relationship.
Mortgage Notes Payable Maturing During 1996
Six mortgage notes payable secured by two hotels mature in 1996. Five of the mortgage notes, aggregating $31.2 million at December 31, 1995, are secured by the
Milwaukee Marriott, in which the Corporation holds a 51% interest. All but $2.9 million in principal amount of these notes are held by the Trust. The net book value of the Milwaukee Marriott is $22.1 million at December 31, 1995. One mortgage note in the amount of $25.1 million at December 31, 1995, is secured by the Boston Park Plaza, in which the Trust acquired a 58.2% interest in January 1996.
Regulation and Licensing
The ownership and operation of the casino gaming facilities of Starwood Lodging in Nevada are subject to extensive licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the "Nevada Commission"), the Nevada State Gaming Control Board (the "Nevada Board") and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the "Clark County Board" and, together with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the "Nevada Gaming Authorities").
The gaming laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of Nevada seek to (i) prevent unsavory or unsuitable persons from having any direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity; (ii) establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures; (iii) maintain effective control over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenues, providing reliable record keeping and making periodic reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities; (iv) prevent cheating and fraudulent practices; and (v) provide a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees. Changes in these laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on the Corporation's gaming operations.
The Corporation is registered with the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation and has been found suitable as a holding company by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to own all of the outstanding capital stock of HICN. HICN which operates two hotel/casinos, the King 8 Hotel, Gambling Hall & Truck Plaza (the "King 8") and the Bourbon Street Hotel & Casino ("Bourbon Street") is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Trust was likewise found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to be the landlord of the King 8 and Bourbon Street. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of profits from, HICN without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Prior approval of the Nevada Commission is required for the sale, assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition of any security issued by HICN.
The licenses and approvals held by HICN are not transferable and must be renewed periodically upon the payment of appropriate taxes and license fees. The licensing authorities have broad discretion with regard to the renewal of the licenses. The issuing agency may at any time revoke, suspend, condition, limit or restrict a license or approval to own stock in a corporate licensee for any cause deemed reasonable by the issuing agency. Substantial fines for each violation of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against HICN, the Corporation and the individuals involved. A violation under any one of the
licenses held by HICN may be deemed a violation of one or more other licenses or approvals held by HICN. If HICN's licenses are revoked or suspended or are not renewed, the Nevada Commission may petition a Nevada district court to appoint a supervisor to operate the affected property until it is sold. When sold, the net proceeds would be paid to the Trust. The Trust could, however, under certain circumstances, receive only the reasonable rental value of any property earnings under the supervisor's management with any excess in earnings over the reasonable rental value of the property being forfeited to the State of Nevada. Suspension or revocation of the license of HICN, disapproval of the Corporation to own the stock of HICN or court appointment of a supervisor over operations of the King 8 or Bourbon Street could have a material adverse effect upon the Trust and the Corporation.
Directors, officers and certain key employees of HICN must file license applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Certain officers, directors and key employees of HICN are licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and any required license applications of the remaining officers, directors or key employees have been filed with the Nevada Board. An application for licensing may be denied for any cause deemed reasonable by the issuing agency. Changes in corporate management or executive positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. In addition to its authority to deny an application for a license, the Nevada Commission has jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a management or executive position with a regulated corporation. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find a director, officer or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with HICN or the Corporation, the Corporation and HICN would have to sever all relationships with that person. The Corporation and HICN would have similar obligations with regard to any person who refused to file appropriate applications. Each gaming employee must obtain, and periodically renew, a work permit, which may be revoked upon the occurrence of certain specified events.
HICN must submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission, which are subject to routine audit by the Nevada Board. Substantially all loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions entered into by HICN must be reported to or approved by the Nevada Commission. The fiscal stability of HICN must be adequate to satisfy gaming financial obligations such as state and local government taxes and fees, and the payment of winning wagers to patrons. Failure to satisfy these gaming financial obligations is grounds for the Nevada Gaming Authorities to limit, condition, restrict, suspend or revoke the gaming licenses and approvals of HICN and the registration and approvals of the Corporation, or to impose administrative fines against HICN or the Corporation.
As a registered publicly traded holding company found suitable as the sole stockholder of HICN, the Corporation is required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission and to furnish any other information that the Nevada Commission or Nevada Board may require. The Corporation's directors, officers and key employees who are actively and directly engaged in the administration or supervision of gaming are subject to licensing and findings of suitability by the Nevada Commission. Certain directors and officers of the Corporation have filed their license
applications as requested by the Nevada Board. The finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal background and personal financial information followed by a thorough investigation, and payment by the applicant of all investigative costs and charges. Any individual who is found to have a material relationship to or material involvement with the Corporation also may be required to be found suitable or be licensed and may be investigated. Key employees, controlling persons or others who exercise significant influence upon the management or affairs of the Corporation, or are actively engaged in the administration or supervision of gaming activities, may be deemed to have this type of a relationship or involvement.
Any beneficial holder of the Corporation's voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and have his suitability as a beneficial holder of the Corporation's voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation.
Any person who acquires more than 5% of any class of voting securities of the Corporation must report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. Beneficial owners of more than 10% of any class of the Corporation's voting securities must apply to be found suitable by the Nevada Commission within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing, and any beneficial owner of the Corporation's voting securities, whether or not such person is a controlling stockholder, may be required to be found suitable if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policy of the state of Nevada that licensed gaming be conducted honestly and competitively and that the gaming industry be free from criminal and corruptive elements.
An "institutional investor" (as defined by the Regulations of the Nevada Commission) holding at least 10%, and in certain circumstances up to 15%, of the voting securities of the Corporation may apply for and hold a waiver of the mandatory suitability determination requirement prescribed by the Nevada Gaming Control Act. To qualify as an "institutional investor," a person or entity must satisfy one of several alternative criteria under the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or state and federal pension and retirement laws, as well as acquire and hold the voting securities for investment purposes in the ordinary course of business and not for the purpose of effecting any change of control in or the management or policies of the registered holding company or its gaming affiliates. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: (i) voting on all matters voted on by stockholders; (ii) making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in its management, policies or operations; and (iii) such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent.
A change in investment intent of an institutional investor must be reported to the Chairman of the Nevada Board within two business days of such change of intent. The Chairman of the Nevada Board may require an institutional investor to apply for a finding of suitability upon receipt of notice of change in investment intent, or at any time deemed necessary to protect the public interest. An aggrieved institutional investor may apply for Nevada Commission review of the decision of the Chairman of the Nevada Board ordering the filing of a suitability determination application. The Corporation or HICN must promptly report to the Nevada Commission any information that materially affects the institutional investor's eligibility to hold a waiver.
If the stockholder who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, that stockholder must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. In addition, the Clark County Board has taken the position that it has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling more than two percent of the stock of a gaming licensee or of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.
Any stockholder found unsuitable by the Nevada Commission who directly or indirectly holds any beneficial or ownership interest in the Corporation's Common Stock beyond whatever period of time may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or Chairman of the Nevada Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions that apply to a security holder who is found unsuitable may be held to apply to a beneficial owner of the Corporation's securities if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. The Corporation is subject to disciplinary action if, after receiving notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relations with the Corporation or its gaming subsidiaries, the Corporation (i) pays the unsuitable person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities of the Corporation or makes any other unpermitted payment or distribution of any kind whatsoever; (ii) recognizes the exercise, directly or indirectly, of any voting rights in the Corporation's securities by the unsuitable person; (iii) pays the unsuitable person any remuneration in any form for services rendered or otherwise, except in certain limited and specific circumstances; or (iv) fails to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to divest himself of his voting securities, including, if necessary, the immediate purchase by the Corporation of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. In addition, Nevada law requires that any holder or owner of a voting security who is found unsuitable by the Nevada Commission immediately offer those securities to the Corporation for purchase, which securities would be purchased by the Corporation for cash at fair market value within 10 days from the date the securities are offered.
The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a corporation registered under the Nevada Gaming Control Act to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt security of a registered corporation. If the Nevada Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such debt security, then pursuant to the Regulations of the Nevada Commission, the registered
corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission it (i) pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or other distribution whatsoever; (ii) recognizes any voting right of such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; (iii) pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or (iv) makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation, or similar transaction.
The Corporation is required to maintain a current and comprehensive stock ledger in the state of Nevada, which ledger may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at all reasonable times, but without notice. If any securities are held in trust, by an agent or by a nominee, the owner of record of those securities may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make this disclosure may be grounds for finding the owner of record unsuitable. The Corporation must render maximum assistance to the Nevada Gaming Authorities in determining the identity of the beneficial owner.
The Nevada Commission has the power at any time to require that the Corporation's stock certificates bear a legend to the general effect that the securities of the Corporation are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations of the Nevada Commission. However, to date, the Nevada Commission has not imposed such a requirement on the Corporation. The Clark County Board also claims jurisdiction to approve or disapprove holders of the Corporation's securities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities, through the power to regulate licensees and otherwise by Nevada law, have the power to impose additional restrictions on the holders of the Corporation's securities at any time.
The Regulations of the Nevada Commission provide that changes in the control of the Corporation or HICN through a merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets, management or consulting agreements or any form of takeover cannot occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of the Corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and Nevada Commission in a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of the Corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction.
The Nevada Legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of securities and corporate defense tactics affecting corporate gaming licensees in Nevada, and publicly traded corporations affiliated with those licensees may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming operations. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada's gaming industry and to advance Nevada's policy to (i) assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates; (ii) preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and (iii) promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. Approvals may be required from the Nevada Commission before the Corporation may make exceptional
repurchases of securities above current market price (commonly referred to as "greenmail"), and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. Nevada's gaming regulations also require prior approval of the Nevada Commission in the event of a Corporation plan of recapitalization proposed by the board of directors in opposition to a tender offer made directly to shareholders for the purpose of acquiring control of the Corporation.
Nevada law prohibits the Corporation from making a public offering of its securities without the approval of the Nevada Commission if any part of the proceeds of the offering is to be used to finance the construction, acquisition or operation of gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for one or more such purposes. Approval of the public offering will not constitute a finding by the Nevada Commission as to the accuracy, adequacy or investment merit of the securities offered to the public. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.
The gaming regulatory requirements discussed above apply to certain aspects of the Reorganization. The contribution by HICN of the Gaming Assets (and the transfer of certain liabilities to be retained by HICN) to the Operating Partnership will occur on receipt of certain licenses or approvals by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Likewise, the election of the new members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation since the Reorganization will be effective upon receipt of certain licenses or approvals by the Nevada Commission. Nevada gaming regulatory approvals are expected to be received by the end of 1997. In conjunction with applying for and obtaining such licenses and approvals, the Corporation has developed various policies and procedures subject to review, approval and oversight by the Nevada Board. The purpose of these corporate policies and procedures is to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirement that prior approval of the Nevada Commission is obtained for any transaction that would result in either Starwood Capital or Starwood Partners acquiring control of the Corporation or its Nevada gaming operations. The Corporation expects that these policies and procedures will be eliminated upon receipt of certain licenses and approvals from the Nevada Commission. If the required licenses or approvals of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are not received on or before December 31, 1996, then on such date HICN has agreed to contribute to the Operating Partnership cash equal to the fair value of the Gaming Assets on such date.
License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the County of Clark where HICN's gaming operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these assessments are payable either monthly, quarterly, or annually and are based upon either (i) a percentage of the gross gaming revenues received by the casino operations; (ii) the number of slot machines or other gaming devices operated by the casino; or (iii) the number of table games operated by the casino. A casino entertainment tax is also paid by the licensees where entertainment is furnished in connection with the selling of food or refreshments.
The sale of alcoholic beverages by HICN is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the Clark County Board. Such liquor licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The Clark County Board has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any liquor license, and any disciplinary action of this nature or license revocation would have a material adverse effect on HICN's gaming operations.
ITEM 3.