Item 2. Properties.
The Company has established and staffed an investment department, which manages portfolio investments and investment accounting functions for ILCO's life insurance subsidiaries.
Agency Operations
ILCO's insurance subsidiaries collectively market through the "Investors" distribution system. Independent non-exclusive agents, general agents and brokers are recruited nation-wide to sell the products. Such agents and brokers also sell insurance products for companies in competition with ILCO's insurance subsidiaries. In order to attract agents and enhance the sale of its products, the Company's insurance subsidiaries pay competitive commission rates and provides other sales inducements. The Investors sales distribution system is presently concentrating its efforts on the promotion and sale of universal life, interest-sensitive life, term life and fixed annuity products.
Marketing and sales for all of the Company's insurance subsidiaries are directed by the Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales. The Vice President for Investors Sales directs Regional Vice Presidents who are responsible for the recruitment and maintenance of the general agents and managing general agents for individual insurance sales.
Data Processing
Pursuant to a data processing agreement with a major service company, the data processing needs of ILCO's and FIC's insurance subsidiaries were provided at a central location until November 30, 1994. Since December, 1994, all of those data processing needs have been provided to ILCO's and FIC's Austin, Texas and Seattle, Washington facilities by FIC Computer Services, Inc., a subsidiary of FIC. See Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions with Management.
As the provider of data processing for the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, FIC Computer Services, Inc. utilizes a centralized computer system to process policyholder records and financial information. In addition, the Company uses non- centralized computer terminals in connection with its operations. The software programs used by these systems will be affected by what is referred to as the "Year 2000 problem" or "Y2K problem". This refers to the limitations of the programming code in certain existing software programs to recognize date sensitive information as the year 2000 approaches. Unless modified prior to the year 2000, such systems may not properly recognize such information and could generate erroneous data or cause a system to fail to operate properly.
In response to the potential operations and policy administration problems caused by the computer calendar change on January 1, 2000, the management of the Company instructed FIC Computer Services, Inc. to analyze its system capabilities and the operational requirements of the Company and its respective subsidiaries and affiliates with respect to the Y2K problem. In 1996, FIC Computer Services, Inc. conducted the analysis of all of the Company's systems. After reviewing that analysis, the Company determined that a plan should be devised to prevent the data processing errors that may be encountered due to the Y2K problem. In November, 1996, a three-year plan outlining a proposed solution (the "Plan") was established and approved by the Company to ensure that all of the data processing systems would be Y2K compliant or converted onto Y2K compliant systems. The Company began the major work under this Plan in 1997 and it is scheduled to be completed by the Fall of 1999.
The Company established this Plan because FIC Computer Services, Inc.'s analysis revealed that those systems that are not converted or modified into Y2K compliant systems, may produce policy administration errors as a result of the calendar change, requiring that the life insurance subsidiaries manually administer those policies. This would result in a material increase in administrative costs incurred by the life insurance subsidiaries of both ILCO and FIC.
The Company's analysis also indicated that, in addition to potential policy administration errors in the life insurance subsidiaries, any machine which contains a microchip is subject to error due to the Y2K problem. Such an occurrence could not only create errors in the Company's internal systems, but those of the Company's suppliers and service providers. In order to prepare for this contingency, the Plan called for the acquisition of new mainframe hardware and software, and the modification and conversion of the Company's telephones, voice mail and desk-top personal computers.
Additionally, the Company is developing a strategy for obtaining assurances from its various suppliers and service providers. In furtherance of this strategy, the Company is creating questionnaires which it will forward to its suppliers and service providers regarding the Y2K problem. The questionnaire will request information regarding that particular supplier's or service provider's awareness of the Y2K problem, its impact on their operations, and their plan for addressing any problems as they relate to that supplier's or service provider's performance of their contractual obligations to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Plan calls for a conversion of certain systems onto the Company's CK/4 System; a system which is designed to be Y2K compliant according to the representations of the vendor. Those systems which are not converted will be upgraded by changing individual lines of computer code in order to modify current operating software such that it will become Y2K compliant.
Under the Plan, FIC Computer Services, Inc. will utilize its own personnel, acquire Y2K compliant operating software, and engage the assistance of outside consultants to facilitate the systems conversions and modifications. The Company has budgeted approximately $470,000 for implementation of the Plan. In the event that the Plan does not achieve full compliance by the target dates, or if unforeseen matters involving Y2K appear before or after January 1, 2000, the Company will utilize the staff of FIC Computer Services, Inc. to identify and resolve such issues as and if they arise.
In order to continuously evaluate the effectiveness of the modifications and conversions made to the various systems, FIC Computer Services, Inc. has acquired testing software to simulate dates on or after January 1, 2000. Additionally, FIC Computer Services, Inc. runs the systems through model office cycles and also conducts visual inspections of screen displays to determine whether the systems are functioning in a Y2K compliant manner.
As of February 1, 1998, FIC Computer Services, Inc. estimated that it had completed the necessary conversions and modifications on the administrative systems which process approximately 35% of the insurance policies for the Company and its subsidiaries. This included the conversion of the ALIS System (administering approximately 49,280 policies) to CK/4 in January of 1998. The TI System (administering approximately 5,244 policies) will be converted to CK/4 in May, 1998, bringing the total to approximately 38%. The conversion of the Life 70 system (administering approximately 17,285 policies for Investors-IN) is scheduled for completion in April, 1999. The modification of the Lifecomm-B system which is responsible for the 19,205 policies assumed after the acquisition of State Auto Life is also scheduled for completion in April, 1999. The conversion of the Lifecomm-A system (administering approximately 65,266 policies for Investors-NA) is scheduled for completion in September of 1999. The modification of three non-material systems which administer 6,806 credit life policies, 2,514 group policies and 15,938 industrial life policies are scheduled for completion in December of 1998, March of 1999 and June of 1999, respectively.
The various software applications described above are licensed to the Company under agreements which permit the Company's subsidiaries to process business on its computer systems utilizing such software.
In 1997, FIC Computer Services, Inc. purchased new mainframe hardware and accompanying operating software, which the vendor has represented to be Y2K compliant. FIC Computer Services, Inc. will be testing this hardware and software in 1998. The telephone system has been tested by the maintenance provider for that system and the Company has received assurances that the telephone system is Y2K compliant.
With respect to non-centralized systems(i.e., desktop computers), the Company anticipates that updated software releases will be commercially available well in advance of the year 2000. Accordingly, to the extent that such systems rely on date sensitive information, the Company expects that the effort needed to correct for Y2K problems will be less time intensive than the effort needed to achieve compliance for its centralized systems.
Competition
There are many life and health insurance companies in the United States. A significant number of casualty companies also market health insurance. Agents placing insurance business with ILCO's life insurance subsidiaries are compensated on a commission basis. However, some companies pay higher commissions and charge lower premium rates and many companies have more substantial resources.
The principal cost and competitive factors that affect the Company's ability to sell its life and health insurance and annuity products on a profitable basis are: (1) the general level of premium rates for comparable products; (2) the extent of individual policy holder services required to service each product category; (3) general interest rate levels; (4) competitive commission rates and related marketing costs; (5) legislative and regulatory requirements and restrictions; (6) the impact of competing insurance and other financial products; and (7) the condition of the regional and national economies.
Reinsurance and Reserves
Reinsurance Ceded:
In accordance with general practices in the insurance industry, the Company's insurance subsidiaries limit the maximum net losses that may arise from large risks by reinsuring with other carriers. Such reinsurance provides for a portion of the mortality risk to be retained (the "Retention") with the excess being ceded to a reinsurer at a premium set forth in a schedule based upon the age and risk classification of the insured. The reinsurance treaties provide for allowances that help the Company's insurance subsidiaries offset the expense of writing new business. Investors- IN generally retains the first $60,000 to $100,000 of risk on the life of any individual, depending upon the type of coverage being written. Investors-NA generally retains the first $100,000 to $250,000 of risk on the life of any individual, depending on the type of coverage being issued.
In 1988, Investors-NA entered into a bulk reinsurance treaty under which it reinsured all of its risks under accidental death benefit policies. Investors-IN had previously obtained similar bulk reinsurance for accidental death benefit policies. The treaty was renegotiated with a different reinsurer in January, 1997.
As discussed above (see "Principal Products"), in December, 1997, ILCO s life insurance subsidiaries entered into a reinsurance treaty under which all of the contractual obligations and risks under individual accident and health insurance policies were assumed by a third party reinsurer. In connection with the transaction, the total amount of net reserves transferred by the subsidiaries was $6,327,504. In addition to the transfer of reserves, the life companies paid the reinsurer $1,037,150 in connection with the transaction, which amount was accounted for as an expense for the year ended December 31, 1997. In 1997, the accident and health business generated approximately $791,000 in annualized premiums.
Although reinsurance does not eliminate the exposure of the Company's insurance subsidiaries to losses from risks insured, the net liability of such subsidiaries will be limited to the portion of the risk retained, provided that the reinsurers meet their contractual obligations.
The Company's insurance subsidiaries carry reserves on their books to meet future obligations under their outstanding insurance policies. Such reserves are believed to be sufficient to meet policy obligations as they mature and are calculated using assumptions for interest, mortality, expenses and withdrawals in effect at the time the policies were issued.
Reinsurance Assumed:
In 1995, Investors-NA entered into a reinsurance agreement with Family Life pertaining to universal life insurance written by Family Life. The reinsurance agreement is on a co-insurance basis and applies to all covered business with effective dates on and after January 1, 1995. The agreement applies to only that portion of the face amount of the policy which is less than $200,000; face amounts of $200,000 or more are reinsured by Family Life with a third party reinsurer. In 1996, Investors-NA entered into a reinsurance agreement with Family Life, pertaining to annuity contracts written by Family Life. The agreement applies to contracts written on or after January 1, 1996. These reinsurance arrangements reflect management's plan to develop universal life and annuity business at Investors-NA, with Family Life concentrating on the writing of term life insurance products.
FIC's Acquisition of Control of the Company
In January 1985, FIC acquired 26.53% of ILCO's common stock. FIC and Family Life subsequently acquired additional shares of ILCO's common stock and as of March 16, 1998, FIC owned, directly and indirectly through Family Life, approximately 45.4% of the outstanding shares of ILCO's common stock. FIC holds options to acquire up to 1,702,155 additional shares of ILCO Common Stock. Giving effect to the exercise of those options, FIC would own, directly and indirectly through Family Life, approximately 61% of the outstanding shares of ILCO Common Stock. The exercise price of the options is equal to the average quoted market price of ILCO's common stock over the six month period immediately prior to exercise. In addition, in the event that any other party were to seek to acquire, without the prior approval of ILCO's Board of Directors, securities aggregating five percent or more of ILCO's outstanding common stock, FIC would have the right to acquire, under the same price formula, that number of shares of ILCO's common stock which, when added to the number of shares then owned by FIC, would amount to 51% of ILCO's outstanding common stock.
The stock options were granted in 1986 to FIC by the Company principally in consideration for a $1,200,000 unsecured loan from FIC, FIC's agreement to guarantee up to $4,000,000 of Registrant's financial obligations and FIC's agreement to guarantee, upon demand, ILCO's performance under its lease on its headquarters building. In addition, FIC guaranteed a $15,000,000 term loan of ILCO. Under the terms of the option agreement, the options remain in effect so long as FIC guarantees any indebtedness of ILCO. As described under the heading "Senior Loan", the current Senior Loan of ILCO is scheduled to be fully repaid on October 1, 1998. Accordingly, unless ILCO s Senior Loan is extended, or ILCO otherwise incurs indebtedness which is guaranteed by FIC, FIC s rights under the 1986 option agreement would expire on October 1, 1998.
FIC's Acquisition of Family Life
After FIC acquired control of ILCO, FIC's primary involvement in the insurance industry was its indirect investment, through ILCO, in ILCO's insurance subsidiaries. In June 1991, FIC acquired Family Life Insurance Company, ("Family Life"), based in Seattle, Washington, from Merrill Lynch Insurance Group, Inc.
Family Life underwrites and sells mortgage protection life insurance to customers who are mortgage borrowers from financial institutions where Family Life has marketing relationships. Family Life distributes its insurance products primarily through a national career sales force in 49 states and the District of Columbia.
The $114 million purchase price for Family Life and an additional $5 million for transaction costs, working capital and other related purposes were financed by: (a) a $50 million senior loan provided by a group of banks, (b) $44 million subordinated notes issued to the seller and its affiliates and (c) $25 million senior subordinated notes issued to Investors-CA and Investors-NA. In addition, FIC granted to Investors-CA and Investors-NA non- transferable options to purchase up to a total of 9.9% of FIC's common stock at a price of $10.50 per share, equivalent to the then current market price, subject to adjustment to prevent dilution. As a result of the five-for-one stock split implemented by FIC, effective in November, 1996, the exercise price of the options was changed to $2.10 per share. The initial terms of the option provided for their expiration on June 12, 1998, if not previously exercised. In connection with the 1996 amendments to the subordinated loans held by Investors-NA, the expiration date of the options was extended to September 12, 2006. For a discussion of the 1996 amendments, see Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions with Management, above. In July 1993, the subordinated notes held by the seller and its affiliates were prepaid. The primary source of the funds used to prepay the subordinated debt was a new subordinated loan of $34.5 million obtained from Investors-NA. See Item 13, above.
Senior Loan
The current Senior Loan of ILCO was originally arranged in connection with the 1988 acquisition of Investors-NA and Investors- CA. In January, 1993, the Company refinanced its Senior Loan. That transaction was done in connection with the prepayment of the subordinated indebtedness and the purchase of warrants which had been issued as part of the financing of the 1988 acquisitions. The terms of the amended and restated credit facility are substantially the same as the terms and provisions of the 1988 senior loan. The average interest rate paid by the Company on its Senior Loan was approximately 8.63% during 1995, 7.76% during 1996 and 7.68% during 1997. The maturity date, which had been December 31, 1996, was extended to July 1, 1998 for the Senior Loan.
In February, 1995, the Company borrowed an additional $15 million under the Senior Loan to help finance the acquisition of Investors-IN, and the maturity date of the Senior Loan was further extended to July 1, 1999. As of December 31, 1995, the outstanding principal balance of ILCO's senior loan obligations was $59.4 million. In January, 1996, the Company made a scheduled payment of $4.5 million under its Senior Loan. In March, 1996, the Company made the scheduled payments for April 1st and July 1st, totaling $9 million. At that same time, the Company made a payment of $941,000, an additional payment under the terms of the loan applied to the principal balance. On April 1, 1996, an optional principal payment in the amount of $15 million was made, which resulted in advancing the scheduled payoff date of the Senior Loan to April 1, 1998. In July, 1996, the Company made the principal payment for October 1st ($4.5 million), plus an optional principal payment of $0.5 million. In connection with the acquisition of State Auto Life Insurance Company in July, 1997, the Senior Loan agreement was modified to extend the maturity date to October 1, 1998.
The Senior Loan bears interest, at the option of the Company, at a rate per annum equal to (i) the Alternate Base Rate (as defined below) plus the Applicable Margin (as defined below), or (ii) LIBOR (adjusted for reserves) for interest periods of 1, 2, 3 or 6 months plus the Applicable Margin. LIBOR is London Inter-Bank Offered Rates. The Alternate Base Rate for any day is the higher of (a) the agent bank's corporate base rate as announced from time to time and (b) the federal funds rate as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York plus 0.5%. The Applicable Margin, depending on the outstanding principal balance of the Senior Loan, ranges from 0.5% to 1.25% for loans that bear interest based upon the Alternate Base Rate and from 1.75% to 2.5% for loans that bear interest based upon LIBOR. The initial Applicable Margin for Alternate Base Rate loans is 1.25% and the initial Applicable Margin for LIBOR loans is 2.5%.
The obligations of the Company under the Senior Loan are secured by: (1) all of the outstanding shares of stock of Investors-NA, (2) a $15,000,000 surplus debenture of Investors-NA payable to the Company, which had an outstanding principal balance of $5,206,224 as of December 31, 1997 and (3) a $140,000,000 surplus debenture of Investors-NA payable to the Company, which had an outstanding principal balance of $22,590,000 as of December 31, 1997. The obligations of the Company under the Senior Loan are guaranteed by FIC.
The Senior Loan prohibits the payment by the Company of cash dividends on the Common Stock and contains covenants, including restrictive covenants that impose limitations on the Company's and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: (i) make investments; (ii) create or incur additional debt; (iii) engage in businesses other than their present and related businesses; (iv) create or incur additional liens; (v) incur contingent obligations; (vi) dispose of assets, (vii) enter into transactions with affiliated companies; and (viii) make capital expenditures; and various financial covenants, including covenants requiring the maintenance of a minimum cash flow coverage ratio, minimum consolidated net worth and minimum statutory surplus of subsidiaries, and a minimum ratio (360%) of (i) the sum of the statutory capital and surplus, the asset valuation reserve and one-half of the dividend liability pertaining to participating policies of each insurance company subsidiary to (ii) its respective Authorized Control Level RBC (see "Regulation").
The Senior Loan specifies events of default, including, but not limited to, failure to pay amounts under the Senior Loan documents when due; defaults or violation of covenants under other indebtedness; defaults under the loans made by Investors-NA to subsidiaries of FIC; the loss of any license of an insurance subsidiary of the Company which would have a material adverse effect on the Company; defaults under the FIC guaranty agreement; changes in ownership or control of FIC or the Company by its controlling person, Roy F. Mitte, or in the Company by FIC; and the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy. If Mr. Mitte ceases to control the management of the Company solely by reason of (i) his death or (ii) his permanent inability to perform his usual and customary duties on a full-time basis on behalf of the Company and FIC as the result of physical or mental infirmity, a default will occur, and the banks holding in the aggregate at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding balance of the Senior Loan may, on or after 180 days after the date on which such default occurs, declare the Senior Loan immediately due and payable. Mr. Mitte's ability to communicate and his mobility are impaired as a result of a stroke he suffered in May 1991. However, Mr. Mitte continues to control the management of the Company, and Mr. Mitte's impairments did not constitute a default under the Senior Loan. See Item 10(b)-Executive Officers of the Registrant.
The outstanding principal balance of the Senior Loan was $10,964,000 as of December 31, 1997.
Regulation
General. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states in which they are licensed to do business. Such regulation is designed primarily to protect policy owners. Although the extent of regulation varies by state, the respective state insurance departments have broad administrative powers relating to the granting and revocation of licenses to transact business, licensing of agents, the regulation of trade practices and premium rates, the approval of form and content of financial statements and the type and character of investments.
These laws and regulations require the Company's insurance subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum surplus levels and to file detailed periodic reports with the supervisory agencies in each of the states in which they do business and their business and accounts are subject to examination by such agencies at any time. The insurance laws and regulations of the domiciliary states of the Company's insurance subsidiaries require that such subsidiaries be examined at specified intervals.
Investors-NA and Investors-IN are domiciled in the states of Washington and Indiana, respectively. In December 1992, Investors-NA redomesticated from Pennsylvania to Washington, and Investors-CA merged into Investors-NA. In June, 1993, Standard Life merged into Investors-NA. Prior to December, 1997, Investors-IN was domiciled in the State of New Jersey. In December, 1997, Investors-IN transferred its domicile to the State of Indiana.
A number of states regulate the manner and extent to which insurance companies may test for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) antibodies in connection with the underwriting of life insurance policies. To the extent permitted by law, the Company's insurance subsidiaries consider AIDS information in underwriting coverage and establishing premium rates. An evaluation of the financial impact of future AIDS claims is extremely difficult, due in part to insufficient and conflicting data regarding the incidence of the disease in the general population and the prognosis for the probable future course of the disease.
Risk-Based Capital Requirements. Effective for the 1993 calendar year, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has adopted Risk-Based Capital ("RBC") requirements to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks associated with; (i) asset quality; (ii) mortality and morbidity; (iii) asset and liability matching; and (iv) other business factors. The states will use the RBC formula as an early warning tool to discover potential weakly capitalized companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. The RBC requirements are not intended to be a basis for ranking the relative financial strength of insurance companies. In addition, the formula defines a new minimum capital standard which will supplement the prevailing system of low fixed minimum capital and surplus requirements on a state-by-state basis.
The RBC requirements provide for four different levels of regulatory attention in those states that adopt the NAIC regulations, depending on the ratio of the company's Total Adjusted Capital (which generally consist of its statutory capital, surplus and asset valuation reserve) to its Authorized Control Level RBC. A "Company Action Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 200% but greater than or equal to 150% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, or if a negative trend has occurred (as defined by the regulations) and Total Adjusted Capital is less than 250% but more than 200% of its Authorized Control Level RBC. When a Company Action Level Event occurs, the company must submit a comprehensive plan to the regulatory authority which discusses proposed corrective actions to improve its capital position. A "Regulatory Action Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 150% but greater than or equal to 100% of its Authorized Control Level RBC. When a Regulatory Action Level Event occurs, the regulatory authority will perform a special examination of the company and issue an order specifying corrective actions that must be followed. An "Authorized Control Level Event" is triggered if a company's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 100% but greater than or equal to 70% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, and the regulatory authority may take any action it deems necessary, including placing the company under regulatory control. A "Mandatory Control Level Event" is triggered if a company's total adjusted capital is less than 70% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, and the regulatory authority is mandated to place the company under its control.
Calculations using the NAIC formula and the statutory financial statements of the Company's insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 indicate that the Total Adjusted Capital of each of the Company's insurance subsidiaries is above 737% of its respective Authorized Control Level RBC.
Solvency Laws Assessments. The solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which the Company's insurance subsidiaries do business may require the Company's insurance subsidiaries to pay assessments (up to certain prescribed limits) to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insurance companies that become insolvent. Recent insolvencies of insurance companies increase the possibility that such assessments may be required. These assessments may be deferred or forgiven under most guaranty laws if they would threaten an insurer's financial strength and, in certain instances, may be offset against future premium taxes. The insurance companies record the expense for guaranty fund assessments in the period assessed. The net amount of such assessment for the Company's insurance subsidiaries was approximately $70,253 in the year ended December 31, 1997. That amount is net of the amounts that can be offset against future premium taxes. The likelihood and amount of any other future assessments cannot be estimated and are beyond the control of the Company.
Surplus Debentures and Dividends. The principal sources of cash for the Company to make payments of principal and interest on the Senior Loan are payments under the surplus debentures of Investors-NA (a Washington-domiciled corporation).
The surplus debentures were originally issued by Standard Life. Upon the merger of Standard Life into Investors-NA, the obligations of the surplus debentures were assumed by Investors-NA. Since Investors-NA is domiciled in the State of Washington, the provisions of Washington insurance law apply to the surplus debentures. Under the provisions of the surplus debentures and current law, Investors-NA can pay interest and principal on the surplus debentures without having to obtain the prior approval of the Washington Insurance Commissioner; provided that, after giving effect to such payments, the statutory surplus of Investors-NA is in excess of $10 million. As of December 31, 1997, the statutory surplus of Investors-NA was $71.5 million. Investors-NA does give five-days prior notification to the Washington Insurance Department of each proposed payment on the surplus debentures in accordance with an agreement between Investors-NA and the Department. ILCO does not anticipate that Investors-NA will have any difficulty in making principal and interest payments on the surplus debentures in the amounts necessary to enable ILCO to service the Senior Loan for the foreseeable future.
Pursuant to the surplus debentures Investors-NA paid to the Company principal and interest on the surplus debentures of $22,749,576 in 1995, $36,288,469 in 1996 and $14,093,711 in 1997.
In addition to the payments under the terms of the Surplus Debentures, ILCO has received dividends from Standard Life (now, from Investors-NA). Washington's insurance code includes the "greater of" standard for payment of dividends to shareholders, but has requirements that prior notification of a proposed dividend be given to the Washington Insurance Commissioner and that cash dividends may be paid only from earned surplus. Under the "greater of" standard, an insurer may pay a dividend in an amount equal to the greater of (i) 10% of policyholder surplus or (ii) the insurer's net gain from operations for the previous year. As of December 31, 1997, Investors-NA had earned surplus of $32.9 million. Since the law applies only to dividend payments, the ability of Investors-NA to make principal and interest payments under the Surplus Debentures is not affected. ILCO does not anticipate that Investors-NA will have any difficulty in making principal and interest payments on the Surplus Debentures in the amounts necessary to enable ILCO to service the Senior Loan for the foreseeable future.
Investors-IN is domiciled in the State of Indiana. Under the Indiana insurance code, a domestic insurer may make dividend distributions upon proper notice to the Department of Insurance, as long as the distribution is reasonable in relation to adequate levels of policyholder surplus and quality of earnings. Under Indiana law the dividend must be paid from earned surplus. Extraordinary dividend approval would be required where a dividend exceeds the greater of 10% of surplus or the net gain from operations for the prior fiscal year. Investors-IN had earned surplus of $18.1 million at December 31, 1997.
Valuation Reserves. Commencing in 1992, the Mandatory Securities Valuation Reserve ("MSVR") required by the NAIC for life insurance companies was replaced by a mandatory Asset Valuation Reserve ("AVR") which is expanded to cover mortgage loans, real estate and other investments. During 1997, a change in the NAIC's AVR procedures resulted in a one-time reduction in the amount of the reserves held by ILCO's life insurance subsidiaries, with a corresponding one-time increase in the amount of surplus. For Investors-NA, the amount of the increase in surplus was $2,395,000; for Investors-IN, the amount of the increase in surplus was $590,000. A new mandatory Interest Maintenance Reserve ("IMR"), designed to defer realized capital gains and losses due to interest rate changes on fixed income investments and to amortize those gains and losses into future income, is also effective for 1992. Previously, realized capital gains attributable to interest rate changes were credited to the MSVR and had the effect of reducing the required MSVR contributions of ILCO's insurance subsidiaries. Effective in 1992, such realized capital gains are credited to the IMR. As a result of these changes, management believes that the Company's insurance subsidiaries are required to accrue greater aggregate asset valuation reserves. The combination of the AVR and IMR will affect statutory capital and surplus and may reduce the ability of the Company's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends and make payments on the surplus debentures.
Insurance Holding Company Regulation. Investors-NA and Investors-IN are subject to regulation under the insurance and insurance holding company statutes of Washington and Indiana. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries of insurance holding companies to register with the applicable state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports describing, among other information, their capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. The insurance holding company statutes also require prior regulatory agency approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, their parent companies and affiliates.
Under the Washington and Indiana insurance holding company laws, unless (i) certain filings are made with the respective department of insurance, (ii) certain requirements are met, including a public hearing and (iii) approval or exemption is granted by the respective insurance commissioner, no person may acquire any voting security or security convertible into a voting security of an insurance holding company, such as the Company, which controls an insurance company domiciled in that state, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would "control" the insurance holding company. "Control" is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more or the voting securities of another person.
Potential Federal Regulation. Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal initiatives often have an impact on the business. Congress and certain federal agencies are investigating the current condition of the insurance industry (encompassing both life and health and property and casualty insurance) in the United States in order to decide whether some form of federal role in the regulation of insurance companies would be appropriate. Congress is currently conducting a variety of hearings relating in general to the solvency of insurers. It is not possible to predict the outcome of any such congressional activity nor the potential effects thereof on the Company's insurance subsidiaries.
Congressional initiatives directed at repeal of the McCarran- Ferguson Act (which exempts the "business of insurance" from most federal laws, including the antitrust laws, to the extent it is subject to state regulation) and judicial decisions narrowing the definition of "business of insurance" for McCarran-Ferguson Act purposes may limit the ability of insurance companies in general to share information with respect to rate-setting, underwriting and claims management practices. Current and proposed federal measures which may also significantly affect the insurance industry include minimum solvency requirements and removal of barriers preventing banks from engaging in the insurance business.
Federal Income Taxation
The Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990 amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require a portion of the expenses incurred in selling insurance products to be deducted over a period of years, as opposed to an immediate deduction in the year incurred. Since this change only affects the timing of the deductions, it does not affect tax expense as shown on the Company's financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. However, the change will increase the tax for statutory accounting purposes in the first few years, which will reduce statutory surplus and, accordingly, may decrease the amount of cash dividends that Investors Life-NA can pay to the Company. For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the decreases in the current income tax provisions of the Company's insurance subsidiaries due to this change were $118,480, $90,413 and $269,633, respectively. The change has a negative tax effect for statutory accounting purposes when the premium income of the Company's insurance subsidiaries increases, but has a positive tax effect when their premium income decreases.
Segment Information
The principal operations of the Company's insurance subsidiaries are the underwriting of life insurance and annuities. Accordingly, no separate segment information is required to be provided by the Registrant for the three-year period ending December 31, 1997.
Item 2. Properties
The Registrant's headquarters are currently located at Austin Centre, 701 Brazos, Suite 1400, Austin, Texas. Investors-NA purchased Austin Centre, an office-hotel property in downtown Austin in August 1991 for a purchase price of $31,275,000 from an unrelated seller that had previously acquired the property through foreclosure. Austin Centre covers a full city block and is a sixteen story mixed use development consisting of 343,664 square feet of office/retail space (predominately office space), a 314 room hotel and 61 luxury apartments, all united by a 200 foot high glass atrium. The project was completed in October 1986.
In September 1995, Investors-NA entered into a contract to sell Austin Centre to an Austin-based real estate investment firm for a purchase price of $62.675 million, less $1 million to be paid to a capital reserve account for the purchaser. The sale was consummated on March 29, 1996. A portion of the sale proceeds equal to the amount that Investors-NA presently had invested in Austin Centre were retained and reinvested by Investors-NA. The balance of the net proceeds of the sale were used to reduce ILCO's bank indebtedness by approximately $15 million.
Following the sale of the Austin Centre, the Company and its affiliates continued to occupy three floors of the office space, under a lease arrangement. The current lease, which was entered into in May, 1997, is for a five (5) year term ending in October, 2002, with options to renew for three successive five (5) year terms thereafter.
In January, 1995, ILCO, through Investors-NA, purchased, as an investment property, an office building project known as Bridgepoint Office Square in Austin, Texas for a cash purchase price of $9.75 million. The property consists of 20 acres of land with four office building sites and two parking structure sites. The first phase of development of the property was completed in 1986 and consists of a five-story office building with 83,474 square feet of rentable space and a 550-car parking garage. The office space is fully rented.
In the fourth quarter of 1995, construction began on the second office building, containing approximately 109,000 rentable square feet, and the other parking garage containing approximately 871 spaces. That phase of the project was completed in September 1996, and is 100% leased to a major tenant in the technology business.
In March 1996, construction commenced on the third office building, with approximately 79,000 rentable square feet of office space and was completed in December, 1996. Investors-NA leased approximately 43,000 square feet of the third office building to the same tenant which leased all of the space in the second building. The remaining space was leased in October, 1996 to a major tenant also in the technology business.
Construction began on the fourth building in July 1996, and was completed in July, 1997. The fourth building contains approximately 92,459 rentable square feet. In September of 1996, approximately 23,619 rentable square feet were leased to an oil and gas company, which then expanded its premises to 29,631 under an expansion option contained in its Lease. Another 8,368 square feet was leased in March, 1997, to a company involved in the technology field. In June, 1997, approximately 40,611 rentable square feet was leased to a tenant in the technology field. In November, 1997 approximately 2967 rentable square feet was leased to a securities brokerage firm. The remaining 10,882 rentable square feet is reserved for a health club facility and a retail food outlet.
On May 3, 1996, Family Life Insurance Company, an indirect, 100% owned subsidiary of FIC, purchased a tract of land adjoining the Bridgepoint Office Square tract for a cash purchase price of $1.3 million. The property consists of 7.1 acres of land with one office building site and one parking structure site. Family Life began construction of the fifth building (known as "Bridgepoint Five") on the new site in January 1997. In May, 1997, the entire rentable space (approximately 76,793 rentable square feet) contained in the building was leased to a major tenant in the technology business. Construction of the parking garage and the building shell was completed in October, 1997.
On November 24, 1997, Investors-NA and Family Life entered into a contract with Health and Retirement Properties Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Purchaser") to sell their respective interests in the Bridgepoint Square Office complex. The aggregate purchase price for the project was $78,000,000. The transaction closed on December 5, 1997. The purchase price was allocated approximately 78.5% to Investors-NA and 21.5% to Family Life. The sale of Bridgepoint Office Square resulted in a net profit to Investors-NA of approximately $14.0 million ($9.1 million after tax) that is included in ILCO's fourth quarter earnings. For Family Life, the sale resulted in a net profit of approximately $4.5 million ($3.2 million after tax)that is included in FIC's fourth quarter earnings.
Pursuant to the terms of the Bridgepoint Sale Agreement, Family Life is obligated to complete the construction of and tenant improvements in Bridgepoint Five. At the date on which the transaction closed, the building and adjacent parking garage had been completed. As of March, 1998, all tenant improvements had been completed subject to final inspection.
ILCO leases a building located at 40 Parker Road, Elizabeth, New Jersey. This building, which was formerly the Company's headquarters building, contains approximately 41,000 square feet of office space. The remaining term of the lease is 8 years, and the lease calls for a minimum base rental of $450,000 per annum. The lease provides that all costs including, but not limited to, those for maintenance, repairs, insurance and taxes be borne by ILCO. The Company has sub-leased the space in the property to third parties.
Investors-IN owns three buildings which are adjacent to the 40 Parker Road building. One building, which leased to third parties, contains approximately 3,500 square feet of space. The second building contains approximately 2,500 square feet of space and is leased to persons who perform maintenance services for Investors- IN's and ILCO's properties in Elizabeth, New Jersey. The third building, purchased during 1985, contains approximately 3,500 square feet of space, and is partially leased to third parties and the remainder is used to provide accommodations for employees working at the New Jersey office.
Investors-NA owns an office building, located at 206 West Pearl Street, Jackson, Mississippi. This building is 67 years old and contains approximately 85,000 square feet (65,000 net rentable square feet) of office space. Investors-NA currently occupies a nominal portion of the space in this property and leases space to various commercial tenants.
The Company believes that its properties and leased space are adequate to meet its foreseeable requirements.
Item 3.