Item 2. Properties).
The company's 1997 peak system net load occurred on July 24, 1997 and amounted to 1,868 MW. The company's net generating capacity together with power available from firm interchange and purchase contracts, provided a capacity margin of approximately 19% above system peak responsibility at the time of the peak.
The company and twelve companies in Kansas and western Missouri have agreed to provide capacity (including margin), emergency and economy services for each other. This arrangement is called the MOKAN Power Pool. The pool participants also coordinate the planning of electric generating and transmission facilities.
The company is one of 54 members of the Southwest Power Pool (SPP). SPP's responsibility is to maintain system reliability on a regional basis. The region encompasses areas within the eight states of Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Mississippi.
In 1994, the company joined the Western Systems Power Pool (WSPP). Under this arrangement, over 172 electric utilities and marketers throughout the western United States have agreed to market energy and to provide transmission services. WSPP's intent is to increase the efficiency of the interconnected power systems operations over and above existing operations. Services available include short-term and long-term economy energy transactions, unit commitment service, firm capacity and energy sales, energy exchanges, and transmission service by intermediate systems.
During 1994, the company entered into an agreement with Midwest Energy, Inc. (MWE), whereby the company will provide MWE with peaking capacity of 61 MW through the year 2008. The company also entered into an agreement with Empire District Electric Company (Empire), whereby the company will provide Empire with peaking and base load capacity (20 MW in 1994 increasing to 80 MW in 2000) through the year 2000.
Future Capacity
The company does not contemplate any significant expenditures in connection with construction of any major generating facilities for the next five years. (See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis, Liquidity and Capital Resources). The company has capacity available which may not be fully utilized by growth in customer demand for at least 5 years. The company continues to market this capacity and energy to other utilities.
Fuel Mix
The company's coal-fired units comprise 1,115 MW of the total 2,530 MW of generating capacity and the company's nuclear unit provides 547 MW of capacity. Of the remaining 868 MW of generating capacity, units that can burn either natural gas or oil account for 865 MW, and the remaining unit which burns only diesel fuel accounts for 3 MW (See Item 2. Properties).
During 1997, low sulfur coal was used to produce 56% of the company's electricity. Nuclear produced 35% and the remainder was produced from natural gas, oil, or diesel fuel. During 1998, based on the company's estimate of the availability of fuel, coal will to be used to produce approximately 56% of the company's electricity and nuclear will be used to produce 36%.
The company's fuel mix fluctuates with the operation of nuclear powered Wolf Creek which has an 18-month refueling and maintenance schedule. The 18- month schedule permits uninterrupted operation every third calendar year. Wolf Creek was taken off-line on October 4, 1997 for its ninth refueling and maintenance outage. The outage lasted approximately 58 days during which time electric demand was met primarily by the company's coal-fired generating units.
Nuclear
The owners of Wolf Creek have on hand or under contract 100% of their uranium needs for 1998 and 59% of the uranium required to operate Wolf Creek through September 2003. The balance is expected to be obtained through spot market and contract purchases. The company has three active contracts with the following companies for uranium: Cameco Corporation, Geomex Minerals, Inc., and Power Resources, Inc.
A contractual arrangement is in place with Cameco Corporation for the conversion of uranium to uranium hexafluoride sufficient for the operation of Wolf Creek through the year 2001.
The company has two active contracts for uranium enrichment performed by Urenco and USEC. Contracted arrangements cover 80% of Wolf Creek's uranium enrichment requirements for operation of Wolf Creek through March 2005. The balance is expected to be obtained through spot market and term contract purchases.
The company has entered into all of its uranium, uranium hexaflouride and uranium enrichment arrangements during the ordinary course of business and is not substantially dependent upon these agreements. The company believes there are other suppliers available at reasonable prices to replace, if necessary, these contracts. In the event that the company were required to replace these contracts, it would not anticipate a substantial disruption of its business.
Nuclear fuel is amortized to cost of sales based on the quantity of heat produced for the generation of electricity. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The company pays the DOE a quarterly fee of one-tenth of a cent for each kilowatt-hour of net nuclear generation delivered and sold for future disposal of spent nuclear fuel. These disposal costs are charged to cost of sales and currently recovered through rates.
In 1996, a U.S. Court of Appeals issued a decision that the Nuclear Waste Act unconditionally obligated the DOE to begin accepting spent fuel for disposal in 1998. In late 1997, the same court issued another decision precluding the DOE from concluding that its delay in accepting spent fuel is "unavoidable" under its contracts with utilities due to lack of a repository or interim storage authority. By the end of 1997, the company and other utilities had petitioned the DOE for authority to suspend payments of their quarterly fees until such time as the DOE begins accepting spent fuel. In January 1998, the DOE denied the petition of the utilities. The company is considering its response to the DOE's action.
A permanent disposal site may not be available for the industry until 2010 or later, although an interim facility may be available earlier. Under current DOE policy, once a permanent site is available, the DOE will accept spent nuclear fuel on a priority basis; the owners of the oldest spent fuel will be given the highest priority. As a result, disposal services for Wolf Creek may not be available prior to 2016. Wolf Creek has on-site temporary storage for spent nuclear fuel. Under current regulatory guidelines, this facility can provide storage space until about 2005. Wolf Creek has started plans to increase its on-site spent fuel storage capacity. That project, expected to be completed by 2000, should provide storage capacity for all spent fuel expected to be generated by Wolf Creek through the end of its licensed life in 2025.
The Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 mandated that the various states, individually or through interstate compacts, develop alternative low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities. The states of Kansas, Nebraska, Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma formed the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact and selected a site in northern Nebraska to locate a disposal facility. The present estimate of the cost for such a facility is about $154 million. WCNOC and the owners of the other five nuclear units in the compact have provided most of the pre-construction financing for this project.
There is uncertainty as to whether this project will be completed. Significant opposition to the project has been raised by Nebraska officials and residents in the area of the proposed facility, and attempts have been made through litigation and proposed legislation in Nebraska to slow down or stop development of the facility.
Additional information with respect to insurance coverage applicable to the operations of the company's nuclear generating facility is set forth in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Coal
The three coal-fired units at Jeffrey Energy Center (JEC) have an aggregate capacity of 438 MW (KGE's 20% share) (See Item 2. Properties).
Western Resources, the operator of JEC, and KGE have a long-term coal supply contract with Amax Coal West, Inc. (AMAX), a subsidiary of Cyprus Amax Coal Company, to supply low sulfur coal to JEC from AMAX's Eagle Butte Mine or an alternate mine source of AMAX's Belle Ayr Mine, both located in the Powder River Basin in Campbell County, Wyoming. The contract expires December 31, 2020. The contract contains a schedule of minimum annual delivery quantities based on MMBtu provisions. The coal to be supplied is surface mined and has an average Btu content of approximately 8,300 Btu per pound and an average sulfur content of .43 lbs/MMBtu (See Environmental Matters). The average delivered cost of coal for JEC was approximately $1.13 per MMBtu or $18.92 per ton during 1997.
Coal is transported by Western Resources from Wyoming under a long-term rail transportation contract with Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific railroads to JEC through December 31, 2013. Rates are based on net
load carrying capabilities of each rail car. Western Resources provides 868 aluminum rail cars, under a 20 year lease, to transport coal to JEC.
The two coal-fired units at La Cygne Station have an aggregate generating capacity of 677 MW (KGE's 50% share) (See Item 2. Properties). The operator, Kansas City Power & Light Company (KCPL), maintains coal contracts as discussed in the following paragraphs.
La Cygne 1 uses low sulfur Powder River Basin coal which is supplied under a variety of spot market transactions, discussed below. High Btu Kansas/Missouri coal is blended with the Powder River Basin coal and is secured from time to time under spot market arrangements. La Cygne 1 uses a blended fuel mix containing approximately 85% Powder River Basin coal.
La Cygne 2 and additional La Cygne 1 Powder River Basin coal is supplied through several contracts, expiring at various times through 1999. This low sulfur coal had an average Btu content of approximately 8,500 Btu per pound and a maximum sulfur content of .50 lbs/MMBtu (See Environmental Matters). Transportation is covered by KCPL through its Omnibus Rail Transportation Agreement with Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad and Kansas City Southern Railroad through December 31, 2000.
During 1997, the average delivered cost of all local and Powder River Basin coal procured for La Cygne 1 was approximately $0.70 per MMBtu or $12.31 per ton and the average delivered cost of Powder River Basin coal for La Cygne 2 was approximately $0.67 per MMBtu or $11.32 per ton.
The company has entered into all of its coal contracts during the ordinary course of business and is not substantially dependent upon these contracts. The company believes there are other suppliers for and plentiful sources of coal available at reasonable prices to replace, if necessary, fuel to be supplied pursuant to these contracts. In the event that the company were required to replace its coal agreements, it would not anticipate a substantial disruption of the company's business.
The company has entered into all of its transportation contracts during the ordinary course of business. At the time of entering into these contracts, the company was not substantially dependent upon these contracts due to the availability of competitive rail options. Due to recent rail consolidation, there are now only two rail carriers capable of serving the company's origin coal mines and its generating stations. In the event one of these carriers became unable to provide reliable service, the company could
experience a short-term disruption of its business. However, due to the obligation of the remaining carriers to provide service under the Interstate Commerce Act, the company does not anticipate any substantial long-term disruption of its business.
Natural Gas
The company uses natural gas as a primary fuel in its Gordon Evans and Murray Gill Energy Centers. Natural gas for these generating stations is supplied by readily available gas from the spot market. Short-term economical spot market purchases will supply the system with the flexible natural gas supply to meet operational needs.
Oil
The company uses oil as an alternate fuel when economical or when interruptions to natural gas make it necessary. Oil is also used as a supplemental fuel at JEC and La Cygne generating stations. All oil burned by the company during the past several years has been obtained by spot market purchases. At December 31, 1997, the company had approximately one million gallons of No. 2 oil and eleven million gallons of No. 6 oil which is believed to be sufficient to meet emergency requirements and protect against lack of availability of natural gas and/or the loss of a large generating unit.
Other Fuel Matters
The company's contracts to supply fuel for its coal and natural gas-fired generating units, with the exception of JEC, do not provide full fuel requirements at the various stations. Supplemental fuel is procured on the spot market to provide operational flexibility and, when the price is favorable, to take advantage of economic opportunities.
Set forth in the table below is information relating to the weighted average cost of fuel used by the company. 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 Per Million Btu: Nuclear $0.51 $0.50 $0.40 $0.36 $0.35 Coal 0.89 0.88 0.91 0.90 0.96 Gas 2.56 2.30 1.68 1.98 2.37 Oil 3.32 2.74 4.00 3.90 3.15
Cents per KWH Generation 1.00 0.93 0.82 0.89 0.93
Environmental Matters
The company currently holds all Federal and State environmental approvals required for the operation of its generating units. The company believes it is presently in substantial compliance with all air quality regulations (including those pertaining to particulate matter, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx)) promulgated by the State of Kansas and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
The Federal sulfur dioxide standards applicable to the company's JEC and La Cygne 2 units, prohibit the emission of more than 1.2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million Btu of heat input. Federal particulate matter emission standards applicable to these units prohibit: (1) the emission of more than 0.1 pounds of particulate matter per million Btu of heat input and (2) an opacity greater than 20%. Federal NOx emission standards applicable to these units prohibit the emission of more than 0.7 pounds of NOx per million Btu of heat input.
The JEC and La Cygne 2 units have met: (1) the sulfur dioxide standards through the use of low sulfur coal (See Coal); (2) the particulate matter standards through the use of electrostatic precipitators; and (3) the NOx standards through boiler design and operating procedures. The JEC units are also equipped with flue gas scrubbers providing additional sulfur dioxide and particulate matter emission reduction capability when needed to meet permit limits.
The Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) regulations, applicable to the company's other generating facilities, prohibit the emission of more than 3.0 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million Btu of heat input at the company's generating units. The company has sufficient low sulfur coal under contract (See Coal) to allow compliance with such limits at La Cygne 1 for the life of the contract. All facilities burning coal are equipped with flue gas scrubbers and/or electrostatic precipitators.
The company must comply with the provisions of The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 that require a two-phase reduction in certain emissions. The company has installed continuous monitoring and reporting equipment to meet the acid rain requirements. The company does not expect material capital expenditures to be required to meet Phase II sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide requirements.
All of the company's generating facilities are in substantial compliance with the Best Practicable Technology and Best Available Technology regulations issued by the EPA pursuant to the Clean Water Act of 1977. Most EPA regulations are administered in Kansas by the KDHE.
Additional information with respect to Environmental Matters is discussed in Note 2 of the "Notes to Financial Statements".
FINANCING
The company's ability to issue additional debt is restricted under limitations imposed by the Mortgage and Deed of Trust of the company.
The company's mortgage prohibits additional first mortgage bonds from being issued (except in connection with certain refundings) unless the company's net earnings before income taxes and before provision for retirement and depreciation of property for a period of 12 consecutive months within 15 months preceding the issuance are not less than two and one-half times the annual interest charges on, or 10% of the principal amount of, all first mortgage bonds outstanding after giving effect to the proposed issuance. Based on the company's results for the 12 months ended December 31, 1997, approximately $935 million principal amount of additional first mortgage bonds could be issued (7.25% interest rate assumed).
KGE bonds may be issued, subject to the restrictions in the preceding paragraph, on the basis of property additions not subject to an unfunded prior lien and on the basis of bonds which have been retired. As of December 31, 1997, the company had approximately $1.4 billion of net bondable property additions not subject to an unfunded prior lien entitling the company to issue up to $961 million principal amount of additional bonds. As of December 31, 1997, $17 million in additional bonds could be issued on the basis of retired bonds.
In connection with the combination of the electric utility operations of Western Resources, KCPL and the company, Westar Energy will assume $1.9
billion of indebtedness for borrowed money of Western Resources and the company comprised primarily of the companies' outstanding long-term debt. Pursuant to the amended and restated agreement and plan of merger, the company's mortgage, by operation of law, will be assumed by Westar Energy. See, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 of "Notes to Financial Statements".
REGULATION AND RATES
The company is subject as an operating electric utility to the jurisdiction of the KCC which has general regulatory authority over the company's rates, extensions and abandonments of service and facilities, valuation of property, the classification of accounts and various other matters. The company is also subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and the KCC with respect to the issuance of the company's securities.
Additionally, the company is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, including jurisdiction as to rates with respect to sales of electricity for resale, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as to nuclear plant operations and safety.
Additional information with respect to Regulation and Rates is discussed in Notes 1 and 3 of the "Notes to Financial Statements" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Other Offices or Positions Name Age Present Office Held During Past Five Years
William B. Moore 45 Chairman of the Board Vice President, Finance - and President (since Western Resources, Inc. June 1995)
Richard D. Terrill 43 Secretary, Treasurer and General Counsel
Executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among any of the officers, nor any arrangements or understandings between any officer and other persons pursuant to which he was appointed as an officer.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The company owns or leases and operates an electric generation, transmission, and distribution system in Kansas.
ELECTRIC FACILITIES Unit Year Principal Unit Capacity Name No. Installed Fuel (MW) (1)
Gordon Evans Energy Center: Steam Turbines 1 1961 Gas--Oil 152 2 1967 Gas--Oil 382
Jeffrey Energy Center (20%) (2): Steam Turbines 1 1978 Coal 147 2 1980 Coal 147 3 1983 Coal 144
La Cygne Station (50%) (2): Steam Turbines 1 1973 Coal 343 2 1977 Coal 334
Murray Gill Energy Center: Steam Turbines 1 1952 Gas--Oil 44 2 1954 Gas--Oil 74 3 1956 Gas--Oil 107 4 1959 Gas--Oil 106
Neosho Energy Center: Steam Turbine 3 1954 Gas--Oil 0 (3)
Wichita Plant: Diesel Generator 5 1969 Diesel 3
Wolf Creek Generating Station (47%)(2): Nuclear 1 1985 Uranium 547
Total 2,530
(1) Based on MOKAN rating.
(2) The company jointly owns Jeffrey Energy Center (20%), La Cygne Station (50%) and Wolf Creek Generating Station (47%). Western Resources jointly owns 64% of Jeffrey Energy Center. KCPL jointly owns 50% of La Cygne Station and 47% of Wolf Creek Generating Station.
(3) This unit has been "mothballed" for future use.
ITEM 3.