Item 2. Properties
We conduct our operations in Lithia, Florida, from an office in the home of one of our officers until such time as we build offices in Beatty, NV (under construction as of the date of this filing). The office is occupied at no charge to us. There is no rental agreement for the use of this office. If rent were charged for this space, the amount would not be material.
At this time, our primary focus is on gold and silver properties. Gold and silver properties are wasting assets. They eventually become depleted or uneconomical to continue mining. Currently, we have not produced any gold or silver from our properties. We are in the exploration stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the exploration stage. Our ability to become and remain profitable over the long term depends on our ability to finalize the design, permit, development and profitable extraction and recovery of mineral resources beyond our current planned mine life. If our ability to expand the operations beyond their current planned mined lives doesn’t occur we may seek to acquire other precious and base metals properties beyond our current properties. The acquisition of precious and base metals properties and their exploration and development are subject to intense competition. Companies with greater financial resources, larger staff, more experience and more equipment for exploration and development may be in a better position than us to compete for such mineral properties.
Below is a list of the claims which PGPI acquired prior to March 23, 2012, the date of reverse acquisition.
Name of Claim
Acres
Date Acquired
El Tule
3,070.00
March 14, 2012
Capatola
55.50
March 8, 2012
Indian Mine
122.00
March 14, 2012
Gypsy Mine
160.00
March 2, 2012
Hot Springs Mine
320.00
March 2, 2012
Stud Horse Mine
41.26
March 14, 2012
TNT Mine
41.26
March 14, 2012
Bullfrog Mine
100.00
March 2, 2012
Virgilia Mine
60.00
March 2, 2012
Reward Monster Mine
80.00
March 2, 2012
The following is a list of claims acquired after March 23, 2012:
Name of Claim
Acres
Date Acquired
Turner Ranch (Bull Frog #2)
39.73
April 30, 2012
Bullfrog #3
May 15, 2012
American Metallic Mine
May 9, 2012
Placeritas Mine
April 30, 2012
Golden Eagle #2
702.3
June 3, 2012
#1 Mining Operation Disclosure
Reward Monster Mine
(1) Location: The Reward Monster mine is located in township 11 south, range 9 west, and encompasses the S1/2 SE1/4 of section 13.
(2) Description of claim: The Reward Monster mine consists of one 80 acre unpatented mining claim. The annual assessment fee for the mining claims is $560.00.
(3) History of Previous Operations: There is no data available as to who the previous operators of this mine were. During our site visit we did notice past prospecting that occurred on this mine however it did not appear that any commercial operations have ever been in place.
(4) (i) The Reward Monster mine is an open cast surface deposit. Currently this deposit is slated for future exploration, and is not actively being mined by our company. Our company acquired these two mining claims back in April of 2012 from Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. for the purpose of further mineral exploration and development. This property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The Reward Monster mine does not currently have any equipment on site.
5) TERTIARY GEOLOGY OF CHLORIDE MINING DISTRICT
Oldest Tertiary rocks found in the Chloride mining district are volcaniclastic alluvial-fan deposits of the lower Rubio Peak Formation. These deposits are proximal to mid -proximal facies typified by mass­ movement processes of debris flows, hyperconcentrated flood flows, and gravity slides. Lower age restrains for these deposits are unknown, but paleontologic data place the upper volcaniclastic rocks in the Chad­ ronian (earliest Oligocene) (Lucas in this guidebook). These rocks are interpreted as intermontane-basin accumulations shed from middle Ter­tiary volcanic centers overprinted on a Laramide uplift, similar to the L-shaped Sierra uplift of Eardley (1962) to the east and south of the district. Rubio Peak Formation rests on progressively older Paleozoic rocks south of the district; and paleoftow direct ions for lower Rubio Peak rocks in the district are from the east (Cather in preparation). Volcanic source areas for lower Rubio Peak volcaniclastic rocks are possibly marked by the north-trending chain of quartz-monzonite to monzonite intrusions that extends from Copper Flats (73.4 my,
Hedlund 1974) northward through Salado Mountain intrusive, Double S Peaks intrusive, Sierra Cuchillo intrusive (50.1 ± 2.6 my, Chapin et al. 1975), and Kelly Peak intrusive .
The occurrence of exotic Paleozoic limestone blocks of enormous size within rocks of lower Rubio Peak Formation is an intriguing geo­ logic phenomenon. Interpretation of geologic evidence by this author supports Maxwell & Heyl's (1976) gravity -slide origin for these blocks. Emplacement processes are envisioned as similar to those occurring along the Heart Mountain detachment fault. Northwest Wyoming (Pierce 194 I, 1957), and gravity-slide blocks in the Canelo Hills, southeastern Arizona (Davis et al. 1979).
CHLORIDE MINING DISTRICT
Exotic limestone blocks occur at the same stratigraphic horizon across an area in excess, of 150 km', throughout the length of the Chloride district. Individual blocks range upward to 170 m in thickness and 5 km' in outcrop. Bedding-plane faults and open-space breccias formed near the base of most blocks during sliding. A shale seam at the base of an exotic limestone block exposed in the St. Cloud mine incorporated fragments of underlying volcanic lastic rocks during transport. These features, plus highly fragmented, rotated areas along the base of large blocks suggest gravity sliding rather than the passive rafting expected from debris-flow deposition. Small l limestone blocks around the margins of larger blocks do occur incorporated in debris-flow deposits that ac­ companied gravity sliding.
The stratigraphic interval from upper Rubio Peak Formation through basaltic andesite of Poverty Creek contains deposits of volcanic rocks intercalated with distal-alluvial-fan deposits. Volcanic rocks in this in­ terval alternate between rhyolite and quartz-latite ash-flow tuffs and dark, aphanitic basaltic-andesite flow rocks. These volcanic rocks are representatives of the extensive Oligocene volcanism that began upon termination of Laramide basinal deposition (Smith et al. 1985) in re­sponse to cessation of compressional forces throughout the Cordillera in late Eocene time (Coney 1972). In the Chloride district, this transition is marked by change in volcanic rocks from intermediate stratovolcano derivatives to silicic ash-flow-tuff outflow sheets and basaltic-andesite flows and flow-dome complexes. Sugarlump Tuff members of the Rubio Peak Formation and Kneeling Nun Tuff are the major ash-flow-tuff units within this stratigraphic interval. The basaltic andesite of Poverty Creek is the most extensive and youngest mafic unit; it marks the beginning of regional extension along the Rio Grande rift.
4. The high-silica tuff of Little Mineral Creek and Moccasin John Rhyolite flow-dome complex together with the underlying basaltic an­desite of Poverty Creek represent a fundamental petrologic transition noted by many (Lipman et al. 1972, Christiansen & Lipman 1972, Rhodes et al. 1972) as occurring in the 27 to 29 my bracket throughout the Cordillera, virtually concurrent with earliest extension along the Rio Grande rift (Chapin & Seager 1975 , Eaton 1979, Seager et a!. 1984). Tuff of Little Mineral Creek is interpreted as a lithic-rich pyro­clastic deposit derived from initial eruptions of the Moccasin John Rhyolite flow-dome complex. Such early pyroclastic deposits are prob­ably the result of either excessive build-up of volatiles or of interact ion between magma and ground water (Sheridan 1979, Burt & Sheridan 1981). This pyroclastic volcanism and later extrusion of rhyolitic lavas resulted in collapse around major vent areas.
5. Hydrothermal convective cells generated by intrusion of rhyolitic magma associated with Moccasin John Rhyolite flow-dome complex, Chloride Creek dome, Sheep Canyon domes (and others?) appear to be responsible for epithermal vein deposits of the Chloride mining district. Mineralized fault structures are largely those active during doming and/ or collapse of flow-dome complexes. Regional zonation of mineralization is believed to be related to location of these rhyolitic intrusions (as well as to the dominant lithologies through which hydrothermal systems operate).
6. Post-mineralization, high -angle normal faulting refractured vein systems and initiated new fault structures sympathetic to the Winston graben and Rio Grande rift.
#2 Mining Operation Disclosure
Virgilia Mine
(1) Location: The Virgilia mine is located in township 25 north, range 8 east, and encompasses the Lot.11 of section 22.
(2) Description of claim: The Virgilia mine consists of one 20 acre unpatented mining claim. The annual assessment fee for the two mining claims is $140.00.
(3) History of Previous Operations: In 1980, Inca Mining Corporation consolidated the land position throughout Virgilia mine and from 1980 through 1984 undertook an extensive drilling program with the intention of establishing open pit mines at the Virgilia. A total of 241 drill holes totaling 75,941 feet of drilling were completed. In total, over $5 million was spent on geological, metallurgical, economic analyses, and environmental studies. The program was terminated in mid-1980 with the collapse of the gold price. Inca's published geological reserve for the Virgilia was 17 million tons ~ 0.084 opt, with mineable reserves totaling 1.5 million tons @ 0.13 opt for the Virgilia.
The area of the Virgilia mine was Federal land and remained open until 2006 when the past owner covered the property with lode claims. In 2007, paper records from the Inca drilling program were located. Unfortunately, most of the geologic maps and metallurgical tests, along with pulps and cuttings, and reject core had been lost which was stored on the old Virgilia property, due to a fire.
(4) (i) The Virgilia mine is an open pit surface deposit. Currently this deposit is slated for future exploration, and is not actively being mined by our company. Our company acquired this mining claim back in April of 2012 from Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. for the purpose of further mineral exploration and development. This property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The Virgilia mine does not currently have any equipment on site.
5) The Virgilia mine is located in a felsic volcanic flow within the Triassic Cedar Formation. The Melones Fault, the main structural feature of the Mother Lode, parallels the deposits 550 feet to the west. The fault and hanging wall rocks strike roughly 35 degrees northwest and dip 55 to 70 degrees northeast. The felsic horizon is variably mineralized with thin mesothemmal quartz veins, sheeted zones, and massive silicification. Gold is present within sheared sections that contain up to 80 feet of silicified material.
Quartz veins that extend into bounding shale units contain low gold values gold is associated with strong silification and requires fine grinding to liberate. Mineralogy includes, in order of abundance, quartz, feldspar, sericite, chlorite, homblende, mariposite, pyrite, galena, sphalerite, gold, and silver. Base metals are present only in trace amounts.
#3 Mining Operation Disclosure
Hot Springs Mine
(1) Location: The Hot Springs mine is located in township 14 north, range 20 east, and encompasses the NE1/4, and SE1/4 of section 22.
(2) Description of claim: The Hot Springs mine consists of two 160 acre unpatented mining claims. The annual assessment fee for the two mining claims is $2,240.00.
(3) History of Previous Operations: Little is known about the previous operations of the Hot Springs mine other than it's surrounded by three adits, six shafts, and seven prospects as shown in U.S.G.S. data obtained by our company's geologist.
(4) (i) The Hot Springs mine is a surface open cut deposit, and also as indicated above has subsurface workings though to what extent is unknown. Currently this deposit is slated for future exploration, and is not actively being mined by our company. Our company acquired these two mining claims back in April of 2012 from Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. for the purpose of further mineral exploration and development. This property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The Hot Springs mine does not currently have any equipment on site.
5) The Hot Springs mine is located in close proximity to the Gypsy mine and the geology is identical.
Mesozoic metamorphic rocks older than the major granitic intrusive bodies of the Sierra Nevada batholith are widely distributed in the area of the three counties. The metamorphic rocks occur in roof pendants and septa surrounded by the younger granitic rock. Fossil evidence indicates that the metamorphic rocks are predominantly Late Triassic and Early Jurassic in age. The metamorphic rocks occur in relatively small areas, generally only a few miles in extent, although the largest, on the west slope of the southern Pine Nut Mountains, may be as large as 20 miles long and 6 miles wide.
These pregranitic rocks are metamorphosed partly as a result of heat from and deformation by granitic intrusion. Rocks of the larger masses of metamorphic rocks are less thoroughly recrystallized and meta-morphosed than those of the smaller and thinner masses. Generally the metamorphic rocks are in the low and medium grades of metamorphism. In the larger masses, the rocks, especially siltstones and shales, appear to be very little affected.
In the pregranitic sequence, metavolcanie rocks are slightly more abundant than metasedimentary rocks. Commonly, the rocks are intimately interbedded, and the two fold division.
#4 Mining Operation Disclosure
Gypsy Mine
(1) Location: The Gypsy mine is located in township 14 north, range 21 east, and encompasses the entire NE1/4 of section 21.
(2) Description of claim: The Gypsy mine consists of one 160 acre unpatented mining claims. The annual assessment fee for the mining claims is $1,120.00.
(3) History of Previous Operations: Little is known about the previous operations of the Gypsy mine other than it's located in Brunswick canyon which is known for small scale gold mining back in the late 1800's.
(4) (i) The Gypsy mine open cast deposit is currently slated for future exploration, and is not actively being mined by our company. Our company acquired this mining claim back in April of 2012 from Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. for the purpose of further mineral exploration and development. This property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The Gypsy mine does not currently have any equipment on site.
5) Mesozoic metamorphic rocks older than the major granitic intrusive bodies of the Sierra Nevada batholith are widely distributed in the area of the three counties. The metamorphic rocks occur in roof pendants and septa surrounded by the younger granitic rock. Fossil evidence indicates that the metamorphic rocks are predominantly Late Triassic and Early Jurassic in age. The metamorphic rocks occur in relatively small areas, generally only a few miles in extent, although the largest, on the west slope of the southern Pine Nut Mountains, may be as large as 20 miles long and 6 miles wide.
These pregranitic rocks are metamorphosed partly as a result of heat from and deformation by granitic intrusion. Rocks of the larger masses of metamorphic rocks are less thoroughly recrystallized and meta-morphosed than those of the smaller and thinner masses. Generally the metamorphic rocks are in the low and medium grades of metamorphism. In the larger masses, the rocks, especially siltstones and shales, appear to be very little affected. In the pregranitic sequence, metavolcanie rocks are slightly more abundant than metasedimentary rocks. Commonly, the rocks are intimately interbedded, and the two fold division.
#5 Mining Operation Disclosure
Stud Mine
(1) Location: The Stud mine is located in township 6 north, range 34 east, and encompasses the SW1/4, and SE1/4 of section 17.
(2) Description of claim: The Stud mine consists of two 20 acre unpatented mining claims. The annual assessment fee for the two mining claims is $280.
(3) History of Previous Operations: Little is known about the previous operations of the Stud mine other than it was surrounded by many adits and shafts, and its location is close to Camp Douglas which was a hot spot for mining activity back in the early 19th century.
(4) (i) The Stud mine (subsurface) and open cut deposit is currently slated for future exploration, and is not actively being mined by our company. Our company acquired these two mining claims back in March of 2012 from the Eureka Mining Company for the purpose of further mineral exploration and development. This property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The Stud mine does not currently have any equipment on site.
5) The Camp Douglas 7 l/2-minute quadrangle is located just to the southwest of the town of Mina at the eastern end of the Excelsior Mountains. The quadrangle includes one peak over 8500 feet (2590 m). and Thunder Mountain, in the central part of the ores, has a maximum elevation of 7990 (2635 m). Two mining districts, Douglas (Camp Douglas) and Silver Dyke are present in the quadrangle.
Mining in the area was begun in 1893, and a significant amount of tungsten ore was mined at Silver Dyke during and after World War I; mining at Silver Dyke "was carried on by leasors as recently as 1972.
The geology of the area has been described by Ferguson, Muller, and Cathcart (1954), and Muller and Ferguson (1939). Vanderburg (l937), and Hill (1915) described the geology and mineral deposits of Camp Douglas, and Kerr (1936) has reported on the tungsten mineralization at Silver Dyke. Nielsen (l963) mapped two small portions of the quadrangle during his study of the Pilot Mountains, 10 km to the east. Speed (l977a) has named two new formations (the Mina and Gold Range Formations) which have type areas within the quadrangle.
Rock names used in these past reports are based on megascopic and thin-section estimates of rock and mineral content. For aphanitic porphyritic igneous rocks, the rock names are predominantly based on phenocryst mineralogy, and may vary somewhat from rock names based on chemical analyses. Phenncryst contents were visually estimated from thin sections and stained slabs. Precious metal values are reported in ozfton; the conversion factor to gm/metric ton (ppm) is 34.286.
#6 Mining Operation Disclosure
T.N.T. Mine
(1) Location: The T.N.T. mine is located in township 6 north, range 34 east, and encompasses the SW1/4, and SE1/4 of section 29.
(2) Description of claim: The Bruner mine consists of two 20 acre un patented mining claims. The annual assessment fee for the two mining claims is $280.
(3) History of Previous Operations: Little is known about the previous operations of the T.N.T. mine other than it was surrounded by many adits and shafts, and it's location is close to Camp Douglas which was a hot spot for mining activity back in the early 19th century.
(4) (i) The T.N.T. mine (subsurface) deposit is currently slated for future exploration, and is not actively being mind by our company. Our company acquired these two mining claims back in March of 2012 from the Eureka Mining Company for the purpose of further mineral exploration and development. This property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The T.N.T. mine does not currently have any equipment on site.
5) The Camp Douglas 7 l/2-minute quadrangle is located just to the southwest of the town of Mina at the eastern end of the Excelsior Mountains. The quadrangle includes one peak over 8500 feet (2590 m). and Thunder Mountain, in the central part of the ores, has a maximum elevation of 7990 (2635 m). Two mining districts, Douglas (Camp Douglas) and Silver Dyke are present in the quadrangle.
Mining in the area was begun in 1893, and a significant amount of tungsten ore was mined at Silver Dyke during and after World War I; mining at Silver Dyke "was carried on by leasors as recently as 1972.
The geology of the area has been described by Ferguson, Muller, and Cathcart (1954), and Muller and Ferguson (1939). Vanderburg (l937), and Hill (1915) described the geology and mineral deposits of Camp Douglas, and Kerr (1936) has reported on the tungsten mineralization at Silver Dyke. Nielsen (l963) mapped two small portions of the quadrangle during his study of the Pilot Mountains, 10 km to the east. Speed (l977a) has named two new formations (the Mina and Gold Range Formations) which have type areas within the quadrangle.
Rock names used in these past reports are based on megascopic and thin-section estimates of rock and mineral content. For aphanitic porphyritic igneous rocks, the rock names are predominantly based on phenocryst mineralogy, and may vary somewhat from rock names based on chemical analyses. Phenncryst contents were visually estimated from thin sections and stained slabs. Precious metal values are reported in ozfton; the conversion factor to gm/metric ton (ppm) is 34.286.
#7 Mining Operation Disclosure
Indian Mine
(1) Location: The Indian mine is located in sections 26, 34, and 26 of township 7 north, range 33 east. Access to the mine is via a dirt and gravel road located off Nevada State Highway 95 south, approximately 21 miles from the town of Luning, NV.
(2) Description of claim: The Indian mine is comprised of one 122 acre patented mineral property (fee simple) that our company is required to pay yearly property tax on of $109.80. This property was purchased from Eureka Mining Co. in April of 2012, for $50,000 and the escrow closed after the reverse acquisition of American International Ventures, Inc. by Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc.
(3) History of Previous Operations: While there is not much information relating to the past operations of this mine it was previously called the Bataan Silver Mine, and past operators were granted a mineral patent based on minerals of value. These minerals of value were copper major, and tungsten minor as published in the NBMG Spec. Pub.31 Minerals of Nevada data.
(4) (i) The Indian Mine is an open trench style (surface) deposit, and also has (subsurface) workings represented in the form of two shafts, and a single adit. The Indian mine is presently not being mined, and has been set aside for further exploration at a different point in time. This property is without known reserves and at this time is still exploratory in nature.
(ii) At this time there is no equipment on the property.
(5) The Indian mine project areas are located in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt in western Nevada. Rocks in the region encompassing the project areas range from Triassic age sediments to recent alluvium filling the basins. The western side of the region is dominated by Cretaceous age intrusive rocks forming the Wassuk Range.
The Walker Lane is a major northwest-southeast-trending fault zone which displays right lateral movement that ranges from 30 to 40 miles in its central portion, and hosts a variety of precious metal and base metal mineral deposits (as well as geothermal activity) along its length. Late Cenozoic faults of the central Walker Lane form a complex array of variably oriented structures characterized by coeval strike-slip and dip-slip motions. The rock formations for the project areas fit into the regional setting described for Mineral County.
Paragraph (b)(5) does not apply as this property we are currently in the exploration phase and no proven or probable reserves have been established at this time.
#8 Mining Operation Disclosure
El Tule Mines
(1) Location: The El Tule mine is located in sections 21, 26, 27, 28, 35, and 36 of township 6 south, range 39 east. Access to the mine is via a dirt and gravel road located off Nevada State Highway 266 east approximately 83 miles from the town of Beatty, NV.
(2) Description of claim: The El Tule mine consists of 22 unpatented mining claims that our company is required to pay a maintenance fee of $20,980.00. The claims were acquired from Eureka Mining Co./Tucker White for 400,000 shares of Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc.’s common stock in March of 2012. These claims and they were part of the exchange agreement with the company.
(3) History of Previous Operations: El Tule Canyon placers are reported to have been discovered in 1876, but there is evidence of work by Mexicans before 1848. Early in the history of the district, the area was mined extensively by Chinese placer miners, who recovered large amounts of gold estimated by some to be more than 1 million dollars at the old price of gold. The operations at the Los Angeles Rock & Gravel Co from 1933-1936 and those of E. E. Layton at the Ray White claims in 1935 were two attempts at mining the gravels on a larger scale than usual in the district. The Los Angeles Rock & Gravel Co worked an area 2 miles in extent along the upper part of the canyon and E. E. Layton.
(4) (i) The El Tule mine is an open cast placer deposit presently not being mined, and has been set aside for further exploration at a different point in time. This property is without known reserves and at this time is still exploratory in nature.
(ii) At this time there is no equipment on the property.
(5) The rocks exposed consist of sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic types ranging in age from late Precambrian to Holocene. Upper Precambrian and Lower Cambrian strata are widely exposed in the southern two thirds of the county and consist of over 12,000 feet of siltstone, shale, very fine grained to fine grained quartzite, and minor amounts of limestone and dolomite. Metamorphic equivalents of these rocks occur near granitic intrusives.
These strata are assigned to seven formations. Middle and Upper Cambrian strata are several thousand feet thick and consist predominantly of thin-bedded limestone and chert, and, in the southernmost part of the county, of dolomite and limestone. Ordovician strata in most of the county consist of shale and siltstone and minor amounts of limestone, chert, and quartzite. In the southernmost part of the county, Ordovician strata are mostly limestone. No Silurian nor Devonian strata are known. Mississippian strata crop out only in an area of less than a square mile in the southem most part of the county and consist mostly of shale.
No strata of Pennsylvanian Age are known. Permian strata, consisting of sandstone, conglomerate, and dolomite, crop out in a small area in the northern part of the county. Triassic, Triassic, and Jurassic rocks crop out only in the northern third of the county and apparently occur in two structural plates. The lower plate consists dominantly of shale, sandstone, and limestone, and the upper plate consists of a thick sequence of greenstone and green stone breccia overlain by conglomerate, sandstone, shale, and limestone.
Coarse-grained plutonic rocks, which are at least in part of Jurassic and younger age, based on radiometric K-A dating, crop out in 30 separate bodies ranging in size from a few acres to about 400 square miles. Most of these bodies have the composition of quartz monzonite.Tertiary rocks are extensively exposed in the county and include welded and nonwelded ash flows, lava flows, volcanic breccia, and fresh-water sedimentary rocks. The volcanic rocks range in composition from ihyolitic to basaltic; those having the composition of quartz latite are the most common. The thickness and lithologic character of the Tertiaiy section differ greatly from one range to another within the county. The maximum thickness is in the Silver Peak Mountains where a pile of sedimentary and volcanic rocks
Paragraph (b)(5) does not apply as this property we are currently in the exploration phase and no proven or probable reserves have been established at this time.
#9 Mining Operation Disclosure
Bruner Mine
(1)
Location: The Bruner mine is located in township 14 north, range 37 east, and encompasses the SE1/4 of section 14, section 23 NE1/4, section 13 SW1/4, and section 24 NE1/4.
The Bruner was optioned in 2008 to Patriot Gold in Las Vegas who makes annual payments to the Company which are current. The payoff balance on this mine is due in 2016 in the amount of $1,385,000. The Bruner Mine is currently being explored by Patriot Gold under a drilling program being conducted by Canamex, under a buying agreement with Patriot Gold.
(3) History of Previous Operations: The original operators at the Bruner Property are unknown. Prospecting at the property began in the early 1900's while mining was occurring on other properties located to the west. However, modern exploration of the property began in 1983 and included the following work. In 1983, Kennecott Minerals Company drilled fifteen RC holes (holes left after the process of reverse circulation drilling) on the property. In 1988-1990,
Newmont Exploration Ltd. drilled approximately 10 RC holes; conducted detailed geologic mapping, geochemical surveys, and air and ground magnetic surveys, and ground radiometric surveys. In 1990-1995, Miramar Mining Corp. drilled 5 RC holes and conducted BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) sampling and air photo interpretation. BLEG sampling involves a large sample of soil or rock that is leached using cyanide to determine gold and silver content down to a detection limit of as little as 1.0 part per billion.
(4) (i) The Bruner mine is currently being leased to Patriot Gold for a period of. In 2003 and 2004, the Company completed an exploration program consisting of geologic mapping, surface geochemical sampling, and a ground magnetics and CSMT geophysical surveys to help identify pediment covered faults that could host gold/silver mineralization.
Geologic mapping of rocks exposed in the western portion of Patriot's claims shows several small quartz bearing structures trending northwest and dipping steeply to the northeast. These small structures may indicate larger veins at depth.
Interpretation of the geophysical surveys shows numerous northwest and north-south trending magnetic lows associated with faults. Magnetic lows are an occurrence that may be indicative of a destruction of magnetic minerals by later hydrothermal (hot water) fluids that have come up along these faults. These hydrothermal fluids may in turn have carried and deposited precious metals such as gold and/or silver.
Patriot's surface exploration program to date at Bruner has included:
*
Geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration);
*
Rock chip geochemical sampling (sample of rock, analyzed to detect the presence of valuable metals or other metals which may accompany them (e.g., Arsenic may indicate the presence of gold);
*
A ground magnetic survey; and
*
A Controlled Source Magneto-telluric (CSMT) survey (recording variations in a generated electrical field using sophisticated survey methods).
In October 2004 a total of 18 drill sites were located to target both extensions of the gold intercepts in previous drilling and in geophysical anomalies found by a CSMT survey.
Patriot Gold began drilling on the Bruner property in December 2004. This drilling program was completed in March 2005, with a total of 3,200 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling in 7 holes. The depths of the holes ranged from 300 to 750 feet. Patriot Gold received assays for all holes and the results were encouraging enough that additional drilling was conducted.
In April 2005 we conducted additional drill testing on the Bruner property, including both reverse circulation and core drilling. Three fences of drill holes with the fences spaced 400 feet apart were drilled along the apparent trend of the mineralization. This program was completed in the fall of 2005 with 11 holes totaling 4,205 feet being drilled.
In November 2007, the Company drilled three more holes at Bruner to test deeper targets within the gold-bearing tuffaceous host rocks. The holes were drilled using an RC drill rig and totaled 3,240 feet. The holes were spaced roughly 400 feet apart on a line running east-northeast. All holes were angled steeply to the north to cut projected, south-dipping shear zones. Drill hole B-18 and B-19 were drilled 1,000 feet deep and B-20 was drilled 1,240 feet deep. All three holes contained intermittent gold at various depths.
The Company's work in the Bruner District has established two primary targets. The first are high-grade gold/silver veins associated with ancient hot springs systems. These quartz-calcite-adularia rich veins are hosted by faults within brittle, non-permeable host rocks. At the Penelas Mine, located within Patriot's claim block, a vein averaging 0.56 oz/ton gold was mined during the 1930’s.
(ii) The Bruner mine does not have any equipment on site at this time. Surface improvements as stated above are drill holes. Power is brought on site via generators.
5) The Bruner mining district is underlain by a sequence of intermediate to felsic Tertiary volcanic rocks. A volcanic center, the origin of major volcanic activity, is thought to underlay the district. The exposed stratigraphic section measures over 2,500 feet in thickness. The "Duluth Tuff", a variably crystal rich ash flow tuff, is the host for gold and silver mineralization. Two generations of intrusive rocks have been described within the district. Ore in the Bruner district is hosted by vuggy fractured quartz-adularia (potassium-rich alternation mineral) -veined and/or stock worked tuff. Mineralization is primarily fault controlled, although some disseminated values do occur.
Paragraph (b) (5) Estimates are in place of material based off the drill results given to our company from Patriot Gold. Patriot Gold was responsible for the drilling program that was initiated back in 2009, and the results have been attached for your review. No additional data has been provided from Patriot Gold.
#10 Mining Operation Disclosure
Capatola Mines
(1) Location: The Capatola mine is located in sections 7 and 12 of township 13 north, and ranges 27 and 28 east. The mine encompasses the NE1/4 of section 12, and the NW1/4 of section 7. Access to the mine is via a dirt and gravel road located off Nevada State Highway 95 south, and is located 18 miles south of Yerington Nevada.
(2) Description of claim: The Capatola mine consists of two unpatented mining claims, and one patented (fee simple) property. Our company is required to pay an annual assessment fee of $280.00 per year, and a small secured property tax on the patented portion of land owned by the Company. The property and claims were acquired from Eureka Mining Co. for $20,000.00 in April of 2012, and the purchase closed after the reverse acquisition of Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. by American International Ventures, Inc.
(3) History of Previous Operations: The Capatola and Capatola extension are both occurrence mines without any information of past production, however from a site visit one can tell right away that mining has occurred here due to the amount of earth that has been moved, and adits that are present.
(4) (i) The Capatola and Capatola Extension open cast mines are presently not being mined, and has been set aside for further exploration at a different point of time. This property is without known reserves and at this time is still exploratory in nature.
(ii) At this time there is no equipment on the property.
(5) Mesozoic metamorphic rocks older than the major granitic intrusive bodies of the Sierra Nevada bathelith are widely distributed in the area of the three counties. The metamorphic rocks occur in roof pendants and septa surrounded by the younger granitic rock. Fossil evidence indicates that the metamorphic rocks are predominantly Late Triassic and Early Jurassic in age. The metamorphic rocks occur in relatively small areas, generally only a few miles in extent, although the argest, on the west slope of the southern Pine Nut Mountains, may be as large as 20 miles long and 6 miles wide.
These pregranitic rocks are metamorphosed partly as a result of heat from and deformation by granitic intrusion. Rocks of the larger masses of metamorphic rocks are less thoroughly recrystallized and meta morphosed than those of the smaller and thinner masses. Generally the metamorphic rocks are in the low and medium grades of metamorphism. In the larger masses, the rocks, especially siltstones and shale’s, appear to be not very affected.
In the pregranitic sequence, metavolcanic rocks are slightly more abundant than metasedimentary rocks. Commonly, the rocks are intimately interbedded, and the two fold division on the geologic map into metavolcanic and metasedimentary rocks is based on the dominant lithologic type in a given area.
Paragraph (b) (5) does not apply as this property we are currently in the exploration phase and no proven or probable reserves have been established at this time.
#11 Mining Operation Disclosure
Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog
(1) Location: The Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog mine is located in section 4 of township 12 south, range 46 east and covers the SE1/4 of section 4. Access to the mine is via a good dirt and gravel road located off Nevada State Highway 374 south approximately 7 miles from the town of Beatty, NV.
(2) Description of claim: The Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog mine consist of five (5) five unpatented mining claims that our company is required to pay an annual assessment of $700 on per year. The claims were acquired by Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. from MHW Mining Co. in February/March of 2012.
(3) History of Previous Operations: The Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog mine was worked from the early 1990's to 1995 when under the control of Barrick mining. The company mined the deposit as an open pit operation, and processed the ore close to the mine.
(4) (i) The Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog open pit mine is presently not being mined, and has been set aside for further exploration at a different point of time. Our company retained the services of Aurum Exploration to conduct a short geological summary on the property back in March of 2012, and since then no further work has taken place. This property is without known reserves and at this time is still exploratory in nature.
(ii) At this time there is no equipment on the property.
(5) The Bullfrog Hills are at the western edge of the southwestern Nevada volcanic field.
Extensionally faulted volcanic rocks, ranging in age from about 13.3 million years to about 7.6 million years, overlie the region's paleozoic sedimentary rocks. The prevailing rocks, which contain the ore deposits, are a series of rhyolitic lava flows that built to a combined thickness of about 8,000 feet (2,400 m) above the more ancient rock. After the flows ceased, tectonic stresses fractured the area into many separate fault blocks. Most of these blocks tilt to the east, and the horizontal of individual flows shows clearly on their western within the blocks, the ore deposits tend to occur in nearly vertical mineralized faults or fault zones in the rhyolite. Most of the lodes in the Bullfrog Hills are not simple veins but rather fissure zones with many stringers of vein material.
Paragraph (b)(5) does not apply as this property we are currently in the exploration phase and no proven or probable reserves have been established at this time.
Subsequent Bullfrog and Turner Ranch Property Acquisitions
(1) Location: Our patented mill (fee simple) site is located in section 6, township 12 south, range 47 east in the SW1/4 of the section, and the Bullfrog extensions are located in two different locations. The first extension property of the Bullfrog mine is located in section 15, township 12 south, range 46 east in the NW1/4. The second portion of the Bullfrog mine is located in township 12, ranges 46 east, and encompasses the entire section of 12.
(2) Description of claim: The Bullfrog mine extensions and Turner Ranch mill site consists of one parcel 40 acres in size that is patented (fee simple) and seven mining claims. The annual assessment fee for the seven mining claims is $7,700 per year. Privet property tax on the Turner Ranch is $405.73.
(3) History of Previous Operations: The Bullfrog extensions are a part of the Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog mine, and were worked alongside the main Beatty (Barrick) Bullfrog mine from the early 1990's to 1995 when under the control of Barrick mining. The company mined the deposit as an open pit operation, and processed the ore close to the mine.
(4) (i) The Bullfrog mine is presently not operational, and has been set aside for further exploration at a different point of time. This property is without known reserves and at this time is still exploratory in nature.
(ii) There is a Dresser 570 payloader, forklift and Volvo semi truck with a 40’ trailer at or near the property. A 24’ x 60’ mobile office was purchased for the property, but has not been delivered or set up as of the report.
(ii) The Turner Ranch mill property has an office on site, water, and power via the local Beatty utilities district. The site also has a Dresser 570 wheel loader, and commercial fork lift. The mineral claims which are located close to the Mill (1 mile) have no equipment on site.
(5) The Bullfrog Hills are at the western edge of the southwestern Nevada volcanic field.
Extensionally faulted volcanic rocks, ranging in age from about 13.3 million years to about 7.6 million years, overlie the region's paleozoic sedimentary rocks. The prevailing rocks, which contain the ore deposits, are a series of rhyolitic lava flows that built to a combined thickness of about 8,000 feet (2,400 m) above the more ancient rock. After the flows ceased, tectonic stresses fractured the area into many separate fault blocks. Most of
these blocks tilt to the east, and the horizontal of individual flows shows clearly on their western within the blocks, the ore deposits tend to occur in nearly vertical mineralized faults or fault zones in the rhyolite. Most of the lodes in the Bullfrog Hills are not simple veins but rather fissure zones with many stringers of vein material.
Paragraph (b) (5) does not apply as this property we are currently in the exploration phase and no proven or probable reserves have been established at this time.
Subsequent Acquisition of the Golden Eagle Placers by American International Ventures, Inc.
Golden Eagle Placers Mine
(1) Location: The Golden Eagle Placers mine is located in township 35 north, range 34 east, and encompasses the entire section 29. The Company hired AMEC to permit the 4 mile dirt access road from the BLM.
(2) Description of claim: The Golden Eagle mine consists of 704 acres of patented (fee simple). The annual tax on this property is $146. The property was purchased by American International Ventures, Inc. subsequent to the reverse acquisition of Placer Gold Prospecting, Inc. for $601,000.00 in cash, note, and Company shares.
(3) History of Previous Operations: The Golden Eagle mine was previously worked back in the 1930's by a large group of miners. The site has an extensive amount of shafts, adits, and tailings that were left by the early group of miners that were in search of gold.
(4) (i) The Golden Eagle mine is an open cast surface deposit with additional subsurface workings. Our company retained the services of Aurum Exploration, and AMEC during the acquisition of this property to obtain all necessary permits and conduct geological evaluations. AMEC is currently working on obtaining all permits for mining and roadways with the assistance of Aurum Exploration. Over $250,000 has been spent on the construction of roads leading to the mine, and excavation of two settling ponds. At this time the property is without known reserves and the proposed program is exploratory in nature.
(ii) The Golden Eagle mine has a 2 bedroom house and office, well, gates, and water truck at the site.
5) Gold mineralization is thought to have occurred during periods of fracture and breccia controlled chalcedony sulfide mineralization. Oxidation appears to be related to a deep, wide spread acid leaching event, and by descending supergene fluids along the East Fault.
The Vortex Zone, bordering the south end of the Brimstone Zone, is hosted in rocks similar to those at Brimstone, but overprinted with extensive hydrothermal brecciation. Alteration in the Vortex Zone is primarily strong silicification capped with hydrothermal argillic and subordinate acid leach alteration. Mineralization in the Vortex Zone is thought to be related to several pulses of fracturing and hydrothermal brecciation, plus quartz and chalcedonic veining. Vortex is bounded on the east by the East Fault, and is open to the north, west, and south and at depth.
In January 2013, the Company leased certain claims, covering twenty two and half (22.5) acres in Baja, California for a period of three years at a monthly rental cost of $300.
In March 2013, the Company leased other claims in Baja California for four years at monthly cost of $200.
Item 3.