Item 2. PROPERTIES.
Our executive offices, as well as offices of Prime Operating Company, Eastern Oil Well Service Company and EOWS Midland Company are located in leased premises in Houston, Texas.
We maintain district offices in Midland, Texas, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Charleston, West Virginia, and have field offices in Carrizo Springs and Midland, Texas, Elmore City, Oklahoma and Arnoldsburg, West Virginia.
Substantially all of our oil and gas properties are subject to a mortgage given to collateralize indebtedness or are subject to being mortgaged upon request by our lenders for additional collateral.
The information set forth below concerning our properties, activities, and oil and gas reserves include our interests in affiliated entities.
The following table sets forth the exploratory and development drilling experience with respect to wells in which we participated during the three years ended December 31, 2019.
Oil and Gas Production
As of December 31, 2019, we had ownership interests in the following numbers of gross and net producing oil and gas wells (1).
(1) A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. A net well is the sum of the fractional revenue interests owned in gross wells. Wells are classified by their primary product. Some wells produce both oil and gas.
The following table shows our net production of oil, NGL and natural gas for each of the three years ended December 31, 2019. “Net” production is net after royalty interests of others are deducted and is determined by multiplying the gross production volume of properties in which we have an interest by percentage of the leasehold, mineral or royalty interest owned by us.
The following table sets forth our average sales prices together with our average production costs per unit of production for the three years ended December 31, 2019.
(1) Net equivalent barrels are computed at a rate of 6 Mcf per barrel and costs exclude production taxes.
Average oil, NGL and gas prices received including the impact of derivatives were:
Acreage
The following table sets forth the approximate gross and net undeveloped acreage in which we have leasehold and mineral interests as of December 31, 2019. “Undeveloped acreage” is that acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves.
Total Net Undeveloped Acreage Expiration
In the event that production is not established, or we take no action to extend or renew the terms of our leases, our net undeveloped acreage that will expire over the next three years, as of December 31, 2019, is zero acres for the year ending December 31, 2020, zero in 2021, and zero acres in 2022.
Reserves
Our interests in proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas properties, including the interests held by the Partnerships, have been evaluated by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. for each of the three years ended December 31, 2019. The professional qualifications of the technical persons primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserve estimates can be found in Exhibit 99.1, the Ryder Scott Company, L.P. Report on
Registrant’s Reserves Estimates. In matters related to the preparation of our reserve estimates, our district managers report to the Engineering Data manager, who maintains oversight and compliance responsibility for the internal reserve estimate process and provides oversight for the annual preparation of reserve estimates of 100% of our year-end reserves by our independent third-party engineers, Ryder Scott Company, L.P. The members of our district and central groups consist of degreed engineers and geologists with between approximately twenty and thirty-five years of industry experience, and between eight and twenty-five years of experience managing our reserves. Our Engineering Data manager, the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of reserves estimates, has over twenty-five years of experience, holds a Bachelor degree in Geology and an MBA in finance and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and American Association of Petroleum Geologist. See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, for additional discussions regarding proved reserves and their related cash flows.
All of our reserves are located within the continental United States. The following table summarizes our oil and gas reserves at each of the respective dates:
(a) In computing total reserves on a barrels of oil equivalent (Boe) basis, gas is converted to oil based on its relative energy content at the rate of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil and NGLs are converted based upon volume; one barrel of natural gas liquids equals one barrel of oil.
At December 31, 2017 our reserve report included 779 MBoe of proved undeveloped reserves attributable to 22 horizontal wells that were all completed in 2018, therefore, 100% of these reserves were converted to proved developed in the 2018 year-end reserves report.
In 2018, the Company drilled and completed seventeen horizontal wells in West Texas and eleven horizontal wells in Oklahoma. In addition, the Company added reserves through overriding royalty interest in 16 wells, primarily in Oklahoma and Texas. At year-end 2018, thirteen of the seventeen wells completed in 2018 were designated as Shut-In: eight in our West Texas horizontal development program, which were brought on production in February, 2019, and five in our Oklahoma Scoop-Stack development program, which were brought on production in March, 2019.
At December 31, 2018, our reserve report included 43 MBoe of proved undeveloped reserves attributable to eight horizontal wells that had been drilled but had not yet been completed: three of these were completed in 2019, converting 24 Mboe of undeveloped reserves to proved developed, and five remained uncompleted as of December 31, 2019, which account for 18 Mboe of the 43 Mboe. The Company has 9% ownership in one of these five wells and less than 1% in four wells.
In 2019, in West Texas, in addition to the eight wells classified as Shut-in at year-end 2018 that were brought on production in February, we participated in the drilling and completion of three wells on our Kashmir tract: two wells with an average 49% interest, and a third well for 5.3% interest. One of each of these wells was completed in the Wolfcamp “A”, Jo Mill, and Lower Spraberry. All three wells were brought on production in May of 2019.
In our Oklahoma, Scoop-Stack play, in 2019, we participated in the drilling and completion of six wells on our WM Wallace tract for 7.67% interest, and nine wells, included on Slash, Osborn, and Leon tracts, with an average 1.34% interest. In addition, three wells drilled in Oklahoma in 2018, designated as proved undeveloped at year-end 2018, were completed in 2019 converting 24 Mboe of reserves to proved developed. Also in
Oklahoma, six wells designated as Shut-in on December 31, 2018, were brought into production in 2019: five located on our Ruthie tract, and one on our Braum tract. In the Gulf Coast region, we added production through the recompletion of three vertical wells in Polk County, Texas: one operated by the Company in which we have 72.5% interest, and two operated by Unit Petroleum in which the Company owns 2.81% working interest and 3.77 net revenue interest.
At December 31, 2019, the Company had 3,607 Mboe of undeveloped reserves attributable to 22 wells operated by others that are anticipated to be drilled and completed primarily in 2020: ten of these are located in our West Texas horizontal development program and account for 3,526 Mboe of the total, and 12 wells are located in our Oklahoma Scoop-Stack horizontal program and account for 81 Mboe of the total. Nine of the ten wells in West Texas are located on our 1,300 acre Kashmir tract in Upton County, operated by Apache Corporation and, as of April 15, 2020, six of these have been drilled and are awaiting completion, which is expected to occur in the fourth quarter of 2020. Our average 47.76% share of the cost of these six horizontal wells will be approximately $21 million. Drilling of the remaining three wells will likely occur in 2021. In the first quarter of 2020, we have also participated with 7.7% interest in the drilling of a well in Upton County, Texas by Pioneer Natural Resources that is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2020. The Company’s net cost in this horizontal well will be approximately $580,400. Additional drilling and future development plans will be established based on an expectation of available cash flows from operations and availability of funds under our revolving credit facility.
We employ technologies to establish proved reserves that have been demonstrated to provide consistent results capable of repetition. The technologies and economic data being used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, geologic maps, production data, and well test data. The estimated reserves of wells with sufficient production history are estimated using appropriate decline curves. Estimated reserves of producing wells with limited production history and for undeveloped locations are estimated using performance data from analogous wells in the area. These wells are considered analogous based on production performance from the same formation and with similar completion techniques.
The estimated future net revenue (using current prices and costs as of those dates) and the present value of future net revenue (at a 10% discount for estimated timing of cash flow) for our proved developed and proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves at the end of each of the three years ended December 31, 2019, are summarized as follows (in thousands of dollars):
The PV 10 Value represents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved oil and gas reserves before income tax, discounted at 10%. Although this measure is not in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we believe that the presentation of the PV10 Value is relevant and useful to investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flow attributable to proved reserves prior to taking into account corporate future income taxes and the current tax structure. We use this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to oil and gas properties. The PV10 of future income taxes represents the sole reconciling item between this non-GAAP PV10 Value versus the GAAP measure presented in the standardized measure of discounted cash flow. A reconciliation of these values is presented in the last three columns of the table above. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represents the present value of future cash flows attributable to proved oil and natural gas reserves after income tax, discounted at 10%.
“Proved developed” oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered from existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. “Proved undeveloped” oil and gas reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Our reserves include amounts attributable to non-controlling interests in the Partnerships. These interests represent less than 10% of our reserves.
In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, product prices are determined using the twelve-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month, adjusted for oilfield or gas gathering hub and wellhead price differentials (e.g. grade, transportation, gravity, sulfur, and basic sediment and water) as appropriate. Also, in accordance with SEC specifications and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, changes in market prices subsequent to December 31 are not considered.
While it may be reasonably anticipated that the prices received for the sale of our production may be higher or lower than the prices used in this evaluation, as described above, and the operating costs relating to such production may also increase or decrease from existing levels, such possible changes in prices and costs were, in accordance with rules adopted by the SEC, omitted from consideration in making this evaluation for the SEC case. Actual volumes produced, prices received and costs incurred may vary significantly from the SEC case.
Natural gas prices, based on the twelve-month average of the first of the month Henry Hub index price, were $2.58 per MMBtu in 2019 as compared to $3.10 per MMBtu in 2018, and $2.98 per MMBtu in 2017. Oil prices, based on the NYMEX first of the month average price, were $55.69 per barrel in 2019 as compared to $65.56 per barrel in 2018, and $50.34 per barrel in 2017. Since January 1, 2019, we have not filed any estimates of our oil and gas reserves with, nor were any such estimates included in any reports to, any federal authority or agency, other than the Securities and Exchange Commission.
District Information
The following table represents certain reserve and well information as of December 31, 2019.
In several of our producing regions we have field service groups to service our operated wells and locations as well as third-party operators in the area. These services consist of well service support, site preparation and construction services for drilling and workover operations. Our operations are performed utilizing workover or swab rigs, water transport trucks, saltwater disposal facilities, various land excavating equipment and trucks we own and that are operated by our field employees.
Appalachian Region
Our Appalachian activities are concentrated primarily in West Virginia. This region is managed from our office in Charleston, West Virginia. Our assets in this region include a large acreage position and a high concentration of wells. At December 31, 2019, we had interest in 481 wells (451 net), of which 438 wells are operated. Multiple producing intervals here include the Big Lime, Injun, Blue Monday, Weir, Berea, Gordon and Devonian Shale formations at depths primarily ranging from 1,600 to 5,600 feet. Average net daily production in 2019 was 240 Boe. While natural gas production volumes from Appalachian reservoirs are relatively low on a per-well basis compared to other areas of the United States, the productive life of Appalachian reserves is relatively long. At December 31, 2019, we had 296 MBoe of proved developed reserves (substantially all natural gas) in the Appalachian region, constituting 2.1% of our total proved reserves. We maintain an acreage position of approximately 35,790 gross (35,350 net) acres in this region, primarily in Calhoun, Clay, and Roane counties. We operate a small field service group in this region utilizing one swab rig, one paraffin truck, one saltwater hauling truck and limited excavating equipment to primarily service our own operated wells and locations. As of March 31, 2020, the Appalachian region has no wells in the process of being drilled, no waterfloods in the process of being installed and no other related activities of material importance.
Gulf Coast Region
Our development, exploitation, exploration and production activities in the Gulf Coast region are primarily concentrated in southeast Texas. This region is managed from our office in Houston, Texas. Principal producing intervals are in the Wilcox, San Miguel, Olmos, and Yegua formations at depths ranging from 3,000 to 12,500 feet. We had 233 producing wells (143 net) in the Gulf Coast region as of December 31, 2019, of which 125 wells are operated by us. Average net daily production in 2019 was 348 Boe. At December 31, 2019, we had 726 MBoe of proved reserves in the Gulf Coast region, which represented 5.1% of our total proved reserves. We maintain an acreage position of over 12,700 gross (5,120 net) acres in this region, primarily in Dimmit and Polk counties. We operate a field service group in this region from a field office in Carrizo Springs, Texas utilizing four workover rigs, nineteen water transport trucks, two saltwater disposal wells and several trucks and excavating equipment. Services including well service support, site preparation and construction services for drilling and workover operations are provided to third-party operators as well as utilized in our own operated wells and locations. As of March 31, 2020, the Gulf Coast region has no operated wells in the process of being drilled, no waterfloods in the process of being installed and no other related activities of material importance.
Mid-Continent Region
Our Mid-Continent activities are concentrated in central Oklahoma. This region is managed from our office in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. As of December 31, 2019, we had 418 wells (216 net) in the Mid-Continent area, of which 144 wells are operated by us. Principal producing intervals are in the Roberson, Avant, Skinner, Sycamore, Bromide, McLish, Hunton, Mississippian, Oswego, Red Fork, and Chester formations at depths ranging from 1,100 to 10,500 feet. Average net daily production in 2019 was 840 Boe. At December 31, 2019, we had 2,094 MBoe of proved reserves in the Mid-Continent area, or 14.7% of our total proved reserves. We maintain an acreage position of approximately 55,880 gross (10,690 net) acres in this region, primarily in Canadian, Kingfisher, Grant, Major, and Garvin counties. We operate a field service group in this region from a field office in Elmore City, utilizing one workover rig and one saltwater hauling truck. Our Mid-Continent region is actively participating with third-party operators in the horizontal development of lands that include Company owned interest in several counties in the Stack and Scoop plays of Oklahoma where drilling is primarily targeting reservoirs of the Mississippian, and Woodford formations. As of March 31, 2020, in the Mid-Continent region, the Company was is participating in the drilling and/or completion of four wells, with overriding royalty only in eight additional wells, all included as Proved Undeveloped in the 2019 year-end reserve report.
West Texas Region
Our West Texas activities are concentrated in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949, encompasses eight counties in West Texas and the Company believes it is the
largest oil field in the United States. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casing-head gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu. The oil and gas are produced primarily from five intervals; the Upper and Lower Spraberry, the Wolfcamp, the Strawn, and the Atoka, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 11,300 feet. This region is managed from our office in Midland, Texas. As of December 31, 2019, we had 522 wells (257 net) in the West Texas area, of which 298 wells are operated by us. Principal producing intervals are in the Spraberry, Wolfcamp, and San Andres formations at depths ranging from 4,200 to 12,500 feet. Average net daily production in 2019 was 3,703 Boe. At December 31, 2019, we had 11,108 MBoe of proved reserves in the West Texas area, or 78% of our total proved reserves. We maintain an acreage position of approximately 19,910 gross (12,560 net) acres in the Permian Basin in West Texas, primarily in Reagan, Upton, Martin and Midland counties and believe this acreage has significant resource potential for horizontal drilling in the Spraberry, Jo Mill, and Wolfcamp intervals. We operate a field service group in this region utilizing nine workover rigs, four hot oiler trucks, one kill truck and two roustabout trucks. Services including well service support, site preparation and construction services for drilling and workover operations are provided to third-party operators as well as utilized in our own operated wells and locations. At December 31, 2019, the Company had committed to participate in the drilling of ten Proved Undeveloped horizontal drilling locations. Seven of the nine wells were drilled by April 15, 2020, but are not expected to be completed and producing until the fourth quarter of 2020.
Item 3.