ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Chandalar Property, Alaska
The Chandalar gold property is currently our only mineral property. It is an exploration stage property. We were attracted to the Chandalar district because of its similarities to productive mining districts, its past positive exploration results, and the opportunity to control multiple attractive gold quartz-vein prospects and adjacent unexplored target areas for large sediment hosted disseminated gold deposits. The gold potential of the Chandalar district is enhanced by similarities to important North American mesothermal gold deposits, a common attribute being a tendency for the mineralization to continue for up to a mile or more at depth, barring structural offset. We believe that our dominant land control eliminates the risk of a potential competitor finding ore deposits located within adjacent claims. Summarily, the scale, number and frequency of the Chandalar district gold-bearing exposures and geochemical anomalies compare favorably to similar attributes of productive mining districts.
Going forward, our primary focus is development of our hard-rock (lode) exploration targets at Chandalar. Subject to sufficient financing, we plan an aggressive diamond-core drilling program on the hard-rock exploration targets which are believed to be the sources of the alluvial gold. The plan calls for about 40 to 45 drill holes totaling about 20,000 feet. Drill hole depths would range from 300 to 700 feet, and the holes would be spread along a five-mile-long mineralized trend that our geological work has identified. The drilling targets are embodied in concepts developed from the technical data that point to the discovery potential for huge, low-grade orogenic gold deposits.
Map 1 - Location of the Chandalar, Alaska Mining District
The Chandalar mineralization can best be classified as orogenic owing to the finely disseminated nature of the gold, close association with sulfides and deposition within an original bedded organic rich (carbon) sedimentary host (Mikado phyllite). The phyllite is highly deformed as a result of tectonic processes. The original sedimentary rocks have been successively altered by multiple phases of metamorphic and hydrothermal alteration which has remobilized gold within the original carbonaceous sediments and into axial fold structures, faults and quartz veins above and peripheral to them.
Location, Access & Geography of Chandalar
Our Chandalar property essentially envelops the entire historic Chandalar mining district, and lies approximately 70 miles north of the Arctic Circle at a latitude of about 67°30’. It is about 190 air miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska and 48 air miles east-northeast of the town of Coldfoot (Map 1). Access to our Chandalar Squaw Lake mining camp and nearby Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine is either by aircraft from Fairbanks, or overland during the winter season via a 100-mile-long ice road from Coldfoot through the community of Chandalar Lake to Squaw Lake.
Map 3 - Chandalar Mining Claim Block
Geographically, our Chandalar property is situated in rugged terrain just within the south flank of the Brooks Range where elevations range from 1,900 feet in the lower valleys to just over 5,000 feet on the surrounding mountain peaks. The region has undergone glaciation due to multiple ice advances originating from the north and, while no glacial ice remains, the surficial land features of the area reflect abundant evidence of past glaciation.
The property is characterized by deeply incised creek valleys that are actively down-cutting the terrain. The steep hill slopes are shingled with frost-fractured slabby slide rock, which is the product of arctic climate mass wasting and erosion. Consequently, bedrock exposure is mostly limited to ridge crests and a few locations in creek bottoms. Vegetation is limited to the peripheral areas at lower elevations where there are relatively continuous spruce forests in the larger river valleys. The higher elevations are characterized by arctic tundra.
Snow melt generally occurs toward the end of May, followed by an intensive, though short, 90-day growing season with 24 hours of daylight and daytime temperatures that range from 60 to 80° Fahrenheit. Freezing temperatures return in late August and freeze-up typically occurs by early October. Winter temperatures, particularly in the lower elevations, can drop to -50° F or colder for extended periods. Annual precipitation is 15 to 20 inches, coming mostly in late summer as rain and during the first half of the winter as snow. Winter snow accumulations are modest. The area is essentially an arctic desert.
Chandalar Mining Claims
We have a block of contiguous mining claims at Chandalar that cover a net area of about 22,858 acres (approximately 35.7 square miles) (Map 3), and which are maintained by us specifically for the exploration and possible exploitation of placer and lode gold deposits. The mining claims were located to secure most of the known gold bearing zones occurring within an area approximately five miles by eight miles. Within the claim block, we own in fee simple 426.5 acres as twenty-one federal lode claims, one patented federal placer claim, and one patented federal mill site. The 23 federal patented claims cover the most important of the known gold-bearing structures. In addition, there are 197 Traditional and MTRSC 40-acre State of Alaska. The 197 Traditional and MTRSC state mining claims provide exploration and mining rights to both lode and placer mineral deposits on an additional 22,432 acres of unpatented claims. Unlike federal mining claims, State of Alaska mining claims cannot be patented, but the locator has the exclusive right of possession and extraction of the minerals in or on the claim.
Chandalar Geology and Mineralization
Refer to Maps 4 and 5 for graphic representation of both the hard-rock prospects and alluvial fans on which we are focusing varying degrees of exploration effort, as determined by exploration activities already completed in prior years.
Chandalar Exploration Programs and Mining Activities
We maintain an extensive file of the prospecting and exploration of the Chandalar Mining district, cataloging documents dated as early as 1904. Most of the previous work was by mining companies and individuals who were focused on mining the gold placers and quartz veins but who conducted little organized geologically based exploration. Even less attention was given beyond existing vein exposures. There is no reliable accounting of the exploration expenditures over the entire hundred-year period; however, since we (new management) acquired the Company in 2003, approximately $18.7 million of qualifying assessment work has been accomplished (excludes infrastructure, capital equipment, transport cost, and office support). In addition to work performed in the 2011 field season noted below, we completed two drill programs, a 7,763-foot reverse circulation, 39-hole reconnaissance-level lode exploration drill program in 2006 and a 15,304-foot, 107-hole reverse circulation placer evaluation drill program in 2007. We also accomplished local mapping of about 40 identified prospect areas; collection and geochemical analyses of approximately 1,400 soil, 1,400 rock, 70 stream sediment and 11 water samples, and preparation of anomaly maps; a trenching program of 45 trenches consisting of 5,937 feet, of which 4,954 feet was exposed bedrock, and collection of about 550 trench-wall channel samples; ground magnetometer survey grids of 15 prospect areas, and survey lines totaling 28 miles. We have collected and assayed a total of 3,431 surface samples at Chandalar. In addition, approximately 4,500 drill samples have been analyzed.
The Chandalar district has a history of prior production, but there has been no significant recurrent production over the years. Our 2007 exploration work discovered and partially drilled out a large placer gold deposit in the Little Squaw Creek drainage. In 2009, we opened the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine as a test project. Favorable results led to the expansion of the mine in 2010. Total production from 2009 to 2013 was approximately 2,702 ounces of fine gold. This deposit is geologically characterized as an aggradational placer gold deposit. It is unusual in the sense that it is the only such known alluvial, or placer, gold deposit in Alaska, although many exist in Siberia. Our discovery contrasts to others in Alaska that are commonly known as bedrock placer gold deposits. Aggradational alluvial gold deposits contain gold particles disseminated through thick sections of unconsolidated stream gravels in contrast to bedrock placer deposits where thin but rich gold-bearing gravel pay streaks rest directly on bedrock surfaces. Aggradational placer gold deposits are generally more uniform and thus more conducive to bulk mining techniques incorporating economies of scale. This contrasts with bedrock placer gold deposits where gold distribution tends to be erratic and highly variable. The plan view of our discovery is somewhat funnel-shaped, and as such has been divided into two distinct geomorphological zones: a Gulch, or narrower channel portion, and a Fan, or broad alluvial apron portion.
Map 4 - Gold Prospects and Geologic Structure of Chandalar
The property currently does not contain any known proven or probable ore reserves under the definition of ore reserves within SEC Industry Guide 7. However, Mr. Barker, consulting geologist and Chandalar Project Technical Manager at the time, prepared an internal geologic report formatted to 43-101 standards in collaboration with J. O. Keener and R. B. Murray that covers the hard-rock and placer (or alluvial) gold programs at Chandalar through 2008. That geologic report is dated April 15, 2009 and, at the date of this Annual Report, has not been filed on SEDAR for review by the Canadian authorities. It presents the status of the Chandalar project and provides recommendations and budgets for moving the project forward. The most important specific recommendations of the report are:
1.
Continue the hard-rock trenching program, specifically on the St. Mary’s Pass, Aurora Gulch, Summit (including Bonanza), Pioneer, and Chiga prospects. A detailed program totaling 7,440 feet is recommended. (Budget- $131,325)
2.
Design a diamond-core drilling program based on trench results from 2007 and the trenching recommended above. Evaluate the tonnage potential at Mikado-St. Mary’s Pass, Aurora Gulch, Pioneer, and Summit prospects; the results will be the basis for future recommendations of mineralized material delineation drilling. Scout holes should be considered at the Rock Glacier, Ratchet, Pallasgreen, Chiga, Little Squaw west, and possible Northern Lights west extension prospects.
3.
Plan and execute laboratory and on-site bulk sample testing of vein-hosted mineralization zones to obtain repeatable estimates of gold grade where coarse gold grains are present.
4.
Continue exploration for potential bulk minable tonnage deposit(s) based on including lenses or ore shoots of gold-quartz veins with subparallel sheeted and stockwork quartz vein systems and metasediment-hosted disseminated gold mineralization.
5.
Expand the regional exploration program to include gold occurrences between Myrtle Creek on the west
and the Middle Fork of the Chandalar River on the east. Continue to evaluate the numerous outlying gold-quartz prospects and unevaluated shear zones throughout the district, particularly under the sediment cover in the north part of the district.
6.
Continue a mineralized material evaluation program and develop, as warranted, a placer gold mine capable of processing 400 cubic yards of gravel per hour and producing 15,000 to 30,000 oz of fine gold per year.
Phase 1: Mineralized material drilling of the Little Squaw Creek alluvial fan. (Budget - $985,600)
·
Determine the northern, eastern and western limits of placer mineralization in the paleo fan.
·
Formulate drill plans for a continuing, future placer exploration program based on seasonal logistical constraints limiting drilling to about 15,000 feet per year. Contingent on the results of the Phase 1 drilling, select the highest priority of Phase 2 options; 2-A (in-fill drilling on the Little Squaw Fan), 2-B (resource evaluation of the Little Squaw gulch), and 2-C (Resource drilling on Big Squaw and Spring Creeks).
Conduct seismic surveys, define the geomorphic classification of the Chandalar placer deposits in comparison to other deposits worldwide, assess marketability for coarse size fraction of placer gold, and present specific recommendations based on the 2007 drilling program.
Map 5 - Chandalar Exploratory Gold Deposit Drill Target with Proposed Drill Holes
2009 Test Mining
Our exploration activities of previous years defined a substantial alluvial gold deposit on Little Squaw Creek. The limits and magnitude of this body of mineralized material remain to be determined by continued drilling. An
independent registered professional mining engineer, Mr. Paul Martin, calculated it to be at least 10.5 million bank cubic yards containing 0.0246 ounces of fine gold per bank cubic yard, with an overburden to mineralized material stripping ratio of 0.89 to 1. The grade was subsequently adjusted to 0.0238 ounces of fine gold per bank cubic yard to account for a reduced gold fineness when a certified independent assay laboratory bias was discovered. We believe that with continued drilling, the mineralized body may ultimately prove to be twice this size at roughly the same grade.
Beginning with the 2009 placer gold test mining operation on Little Squaw Creek, we started to execute on the recommended plan in Mr. Barker’s April 15, 2009 technical report. Some exploration of the various other placer gold creeks on the Chandalar property took place. Prospecting work on the hard-rock gold deposit possibilities was also accomplished. That work led to some key understandings of the geology. The work also resulted in the generation of an internal Company memorandum by Mr. Barker proposing an exploratory diamond-core drill program of about 40 drill holes aggregating 20,000 feet. Map 5 shows the proposed lay out of the drilling, which is designed to test for large low-grade bulk mineable gold deposits. It would evaluate the degree of mineralization occurring as a large strata-bound unit nearly 5 miles in length, as explained in the report Interpretation of Exploratory Findings at Chandalar. We anticipate this proposed drilling plan would require a stand-alone (not integrated with the placer gold mine) budget of approximately $1.5 to $2.0 million dollars.
In this 2009 test mining operation, we accomplished a major step in assessing the economic potential of this mineralized body by completing a test mining operation on it. The major findings of the test mining are explained below under the section called “Results of Test Mining Operation” of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Most importantly, we found that the mineralized material is a continuous but variably mineralized horizon. There are specific horizons within it that are up to 20 feet thick containing the richest gold grades. The mineralized material is about forty percent composed of gravel, cobbles and boulders set in a sixty percent matrix of fine silt. It is not frozen below twelve to fifteen feet of depth, but is nicely compacted and stands well when opened up. Because of the high silt content, the mineralized material, and the overburden as well, expands by over forty percent in volume when it is mined and converted into loose cubic yards. During 2009 mining test, we stripped approximately 40,000 bank cubic yards of waste material and processed about 9,875 bank cubic yards of gold bearing gravels through our wash plant. About 593.5 ounces of alluvial gold were recovered which, when smelted, yielded 497.5 ounces of fine gold.
The 2009 alluvial gold test mining operation successfully yielded valuable geological, mining and engineering data that lead us to the decision to ramp-up the project into gold extraction in the spring of 2010.
2010 Mining
During the winter of 2009/2010, we raised additional funds to ramp-up the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine into extraction. The ramp-up process involved substantial infrastructure upgrades, including building a new 30-man mining camp located about two miles from the exploration camp that had been in use since 2004. Infrastructure and mining development at the Little Squaw Creek alluvial gold mine was initiated in late May 2010, with the first gold extraction being delivered to a smelter-refinery on July 15, 2010.
The 2010 gold extraction was limited by the lack of capital to get a second wash plant on line. The 2009 wash plant was re-modeled with improvements (primarily an enlarged hopper with a wet grizzly style in-feed) and put on line for the 2010 extraction. Unfortunately, the plant turned out to be capable of processing only about 29 bank cubic yards per hour on a consistent basis. Attempts at higher processing rates led to overloading the machine and frequent break downs. The plant ran for 1,094 hours, extracting at an average rate of about 1.45 ounces of fine gold per hour.
While there were no drill holes within 400 feet of the perimeter of the 2009 test pit, there was mineralized material exposed in three walls of the pit which encouraged management’s decision to expand the mine by following the mineralized material, using in-pit grade control, and mining material to the physical and economic extent possible. No estimate of metallurgical recovery balances can be made regarding the mined mineralized material in 2010 for lack of sufficient prior data about the gold content in the block of ground that was mined. The gold recovery performance of the plant was checked on a consistent basis by panning its tailings. No significant gold was ever found in the tailings, leading management to conclude that the wash plant, albeit undersized for the job, was working properly.
The mining operation ultimately involved stripping an estimated 131,000 bank cubic yards of waste material and the mining and processing of about 31,680 bank cubic yards of gold bearing gravels. During the 2010 extraction season, 1,503.323 ounces of fine gold and 259.356 ounces of silver were recovered at the refinery. Additionally, 24.1345 ounces of gold nuggets estimated to contain 19.2178 ounces of fine gold were extracted and either sold to jewelers or retained by the Company. Our gross precious metal sales in 2010 came to $1,904,124.
2011 Exploration Activities
Our 2011 hard-rock drilling plan was extrapolated from a 2007 exploration plan that was not undertaken previously due to financial limitations. Independent third party professionals analyzed the 2006 hard-rock rotary drill results and the surface exploration work performed in intervening years and recommended prioritized hard-rock drill targets for the 2011 exploration season. The 2011 exploration program included a diamond-core drilling exploration program on a series of hard-rock gold targets on our Chandalar claims. These targets contain numerous gold showings and we believe they are the source areas of the alluvial gold deposits in the creek drainages. We believe we have accumulated a body of knowledge on the Chandalar claims which points us toward significant areas of interest for discovery of very large tonnages of mineralization, and our drilling program has been designed to further qualify those targets for potential commercialization.
We completed our 2011 diamond core drilling campaign at Chandalar, Alaska along with a property-wide, grid-based soil sampling and a detailed airborne magnetometer survey. We completed a 25-hole, 4,404-meter (14,444-foot) exploratory program, using HQ size core, tested six prospect areas (see map below) located along a 4-km (2.5-mile) long northeast trending belt of gold showings. The drilling contractor completed the last hole on September 30, 2011.
The HQ diameter diamond drill holes were generally sampled using a five-foot sample length and overall core recovery averaged greater than 90%. Six quality control samples (one blank and five standards) were inserted into each batch of 120 samples. The drill core was sawn, with half sent to the ALS Minerals sample preparation in Fairbanks, Alaska, where the samples were prepared for assay and then sent to the ALS Minerals Lab in Sparks, Nevada for analyses. Gold was analyzed by fire assay and Atomic Absorption Spectrometry finish and a four acid sample digestion with Inductively Coupled Plasma Spectrometry method was used to analyze a full suite of elements. Samples were securely transported from the project site to the ALS Minerals preparation laboratory in Fairbanks via chartered aircraft hired by the Company.
Donald G. Strachan, Certified Professional Geologist and Goldrich’s contracted project manager for Chandalar, managed the drill program and confirmed that all procedures, protocols and methodologies used in the drill program conform to industry standards.
The results of this first diamond core exploration drilling on our Chandalar gold property have exposed what we believe is a wide-spread system of gold mineralization at intervals from surface to depths of up to 120 meters (about 400 feet). We also believe the mass of rock affected by the mineralizing system to be large, as more than 50 gold showings are scattered over about six square miles (fifteen square kilometers), only a fraction of which has yet been drill-tested. The drill cores contain a total of 56 mineralized intervals of 0.5 or greater grams per tonne gold (g/t Au) that average 2.3 meters (7.5 feet) in length and have a weighted average grade of 1.66 g/t Au (see table below). Gold-bearing intercepts were obtained in 72% of the holes, with many having multiple intercepts.
Drilling results draw us to focus on two prospects - Aurora and Rock Glacier - which we believe are geologically associated and related to the same controlling mineralizing features. Intercepts include:
·
1.5 meters (5.0 feet) at 6.57 g/t Au in Hole LS11-0063 on the Aurora prospect;
·
2.1 meters (7.0 feet) at 6.02 g/t Au in Hole LS11-0041 on Rock Glacier
A map and tables showing drill hole locations, drill depths, data and intercepts can be found in our annual reports filed with the SEC for 2011 and 2012.
These and other intercepts are associated with much longer core runs of strongly anomalous gold (> 0.10 g/t Au) between 4.3 meters (14 feet) and 21.3 meters (70 feet) in length. Also worth noting, while constructing a road to a
proposed drill site, we encountered two zones of shearing with sheeted and stockwork quartz veinlets, approximately 5 meters (16 feet) and 15 meters (49 feet) wide. These zones are located 135 meters vertically above and 200 meters southwest of Aurora drill holes #61 to #64. Representative continuous chip sampling of these zones yielded assays of 2.8 g/t gold and 2.1 g/t gold, respectively. We believe the mineralized Aurora drill hole intercepts may represent an extension of these zones and that additional drilling could extend these zones even further.
While the silver (Ag) values associated with these and most of the other gold intercepts are generally less than 2 g/t, unusually, native silver is observed in one core interval of 0.46 meters (1.5 feet) from 80.01 meters (262.5 feet) to 80.47 meters (264.0 feet) in Hole LS11-0042, which assays greater than 690 g/t Ag (> 20.1 oz/st Ag [st = short ton]) with only a trace of gold. A second curious silver rich interval occurs in Hole LS11-0040 for 2.1 meters (7.0 feet) from 23.47 meters (77.0 feet) to 25.60 meters (84.0 feet), which returned 397 g/t (11.6 oz/st Ag), again accompanied with only a trace of gold. We believe this silver mineralization may represent a separate mineralizing event within a large and complex precious metals bearing mineral system.
Chandalar’s wide-spread precious metal system is hosted by carbonaceous, pyrrhotite-arsenopyrite-pyrite bearing schist. Significantly, extensive intercepts of hydrothermal alteration manifested by massive chloritization and strong silicification of the schist are associated with the mineralization, and are often geochemically anomalous (> 0.05 g/t) in gold as well. The gold mineralization is believed to be mainly controlled by fractures and shears of various orientations within the schist. Mineralized intercepts have now been intersected by drilling over a vertical elevation difference of 550 meters (1,800 feet), with the lowest exposure being in the northeast at the Aurora prospect which is close to the Little Squaw alluvial gold deposit. The metamorphic strata hosting the gold are severely eroded at the higher elevations and either dip to the north or are down faulted, or both.
Additional core drilling is necessary to assess the continuity and extent of outcropping and any projection from the gold-mineralized intercepts as well as determine the limits of the mineralizing system. In addition to drilling, the 2011 Chandalar gold exploration program included a grid soil sampling survey consisting of 1,150 samples for multi-element analyses. All of these analytical results are pending.
The soil sampling, prioritized to first cover known mineralized trends, consisted of over 1,100 samples collected on a reconnaissance scale grid over approximately 65 percent of the 22,858-acre Chandalar property. In the airborne geophysical survey, approximately 750 line miles (1,246 line kilometers) were flown by an international geophysical contractor over the entire Chandalar property along flight lines 100 meters apart. Preliminary magnetic data reveals known mineralized structures with good clarity and, more importantly, identifies sharp new prospect-scale and district-scale anomalies and mineralized trends.
The 2011 exploration season was successful in significantly expanding our existing body of geological knowledge about our Chandalar property. The combination of core, soil and magnetic data is expected to provide a solid foundation for going forward with a thorough exploration and evaluation of the numerous gold occurrences on the property.
2012 and 2013 Exploration and Mining Preparation
Exploration: During the last several years, weak financial markets have been an important factor affecting the level of our exploration activities. We were unable to obtain sufficient finances for exploration programs in 2012 and 2013. In 2013, we did however do advanced petrographic studies on drill core from our 2011 drilling program and are currently studying their results. Due to the weak financial markets, focus was therefore put on our placer deposit, as described below in Joint Venture Agreement, where significant funds for mining preparations and extraction were available; however, our main focus in the future will continue to be the exploration of the hard-rock targets of our Chandalar property as funds become available.
Mining Preparation: In 2012, as described below in Joint Venture Agreement, we signed an agreement with NyacAU to form a joint venture for the purpose of mining the alluvial gold deposits within the bounds of our Chandalar property. Work completed in the 2012 work season included stockpiling topsoil for future mining reclamation, stripping of overburden, building a closed recirculating water pond system to minimize water usage and protect the environment, and constructing an alluvial gold recovery plant. In addition to gold recovery, the plant was designed to
produce and stockpile sand and washed gravel for upgrading and construction of roads, airstrip and other assets on site.
In 2013, Achievements included mobilization of drilling equipment and plant setup, approval of permits to expand mining operations, significant infrastructure improvements and commencement of commercial production (as defined in the joint venture agreement). Goldrich Nyac Placer, LLC (“GNP”) extracted approximately 680 ounces of gold before closing out the 2013 season after 330 hours of plant operation at an average processing rate of 125 loose cubic yards (“lcy”) per hour. Plant expansion is scheduled to be completed in stages through 2016, culminating in an increase from the current 125 lcy per hour to 600 lcy per hour. 600 lcy is estimated to roughly equal 400 bank cubic yards (“bcy”).
Interpretation of Exploratory Findings at Chandalar
A spatial relation between the Mikado phyllite unit and the gold placer on Little Squaw Creek is evident. The northeast plunge (about 14°NE) of the altered (+/- mineralized) phyllite unit beginning near the Summit Mine intercepts bedrock of the creek in the vicinity of the head of the placer deposit and continues northward, forming the bedrock below the creek and underlying the placer gold deposit. The placer gold deposit extends along the creek at least a mile to the north as confirmed by drilling. There is evidence that relatively small masses of Pleistocene age ice high in the valley had selectively gouged highly altered zones of the phyllite unit, which the ice followed as a path of least resistance (i.e. the altered phyllite), to an apparent terminal moraine site immediately upstream of the open pit of our Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine. Auriferous stream sediments have since been re-worked into placer deposits perched in thick sequences of glaciofluvial sediments.
The Little Squaw Creek placer, in addition to being a significant gold deposit, is also a substantial geochemical anomaly that indicates the existence of a substantial lode source(s). In 2007, we conducted a reverse circulation drill program on the placer that identified about 10.5 million cubic yards of mineralized material. The placer gold deposit is open to the north and west, and gravel bench deposits remain unevaluated on the east, thereby suggesting to us a reasonable alluvial resource discovery potential of one-half million ounces of fine gold. The placer gold deposit represents only the coarser fraction of the original in-situ resource in the portion of the lode source that has been eroded to generate it.
Diamond-core drilling during the 2011 mining season was conducted to evaluate the degree of mineralization occurring as a large, folded strata-bound rock unit over five miles in length. The drill program explored the correlation of the overlying magnetic schist and quartz muscovite chlorite schist, locally hematite-spotted, to the underlying Mikado phyllite and possible mineralization, as well as to the orogenic gold-quartz veins that rise through it. We postulate that feeder zones through which ore-forming fluids rose are associated with dilation zones developed by periodic differential off-set movement between the deep-seated NE and WNW fault zones. Also, multitudes of tension microfractures along the axis of the fold are thought to be variously mineralized with gold. These zones represent primary targets for drilling. Map 5 depicts the core drilling targets zone.
Joint Venture Agreement
In 2012, we entered into a joint-venture with NyacAU, to bring Goldrich’s Chandalar placer gold properties in Alaska into production. In each case as used herein in reference to the JV, “production” is as defined by the JV agreement. All costs up to commercial production, are required to be funded by NyacAU and will be paid back from cash flow from gold production.
As part of the agreement, we formed a 50:50 joint venture company with NyacAU called Goldrich NyacAU Placer LLC, to operate the Chandalar placer deposits, with NyacAU acting as managing partner. Once all loans have been repaid and working capital and budgeted reserves have been established, profits from the placer production will be paid out on a 50:50 basis to each of the JV partners. The JV agreement covers production from all placer deposits on Goldrich’s Chandalar property including, but not limited to, Little Squaw Creek, Big Squaw Creek, Big Creek and Tobin Creek, as well as all future properties within two miles of these claims or within the creek drainages to their termination that come from the Chandalar claim block.
A summary of funding provided by NyacAU through December 31, 2013 is as follows:
Loan from NyacAU to Joint Venture with Interest at 0.25%(1)
$11,500,000
Equipment
Capital Expenditures for Equipment of NyacAU affiliate
3,600,000
Purchase Equipment from Goldrich by NyacAU affiliate(2)
900,000
Total Capital Expenditures for Equipment of NyacAU affiliate(3)
4,500,000
Loan to GNP to Purchase 2% Royalty Interest(4)
250,000
Equity Financing - Purchase of Goldrich Common Stock (Received during the nine- month period ended September 30, 2012) (5)
350,000
(1)
Total development expenditures by GNP were approximately $13.7 million, of which NyacAU had funded $11.5 million as of December 31, 2013. The loan is effectively a non-interest bearing loan.
(2)
In the fourth quarter of 2012, we entered into an agreement to sell certain equipment to a leasing company owned by the owner of NyacAU, under which equipment with a net book value of $1,130,593 was sold to the leasing company for $878,943, net of $21,057 discounts, for implicit interest at 7% on the note. The note required monthly principal payments of $47,438, with the balance of the note due in July 2013. We recognized a loss on the sale of this equipment of $251,717. Additionally, the purchaser assumed equipment notes totaling $276,020 secured by the equipment. We received $291,913 cash during the year ended December 31, 2012, leaving a net receivable of $324,476 due at December 31, 2012. During the nine-months ended September 30, 2013, the Company received the remaining $324,476.
(3)
GNP leases the equipment from the leasing company in (2) above, an affiliate of NyacAU. The lease rate for the equipment is basically calculated using the depreciated book value for accounting purposes as of December 31, 2011, or the purchase date of each piece of equipment if later, plus a 15% annual return, amortized over a five-year term. At the conclusion of the lease, GNP has the option to purchase the equipment by paying an amount equal to 10% of the purchase price.
(4)
NyacAU had the option to lend the JV $250,000 to purchase an existing 2% royalty agreement on all production from certain Goldrich mining claims. The loan would carry interest at the greater of prime plus 2% or 10% and would be repaid from Goldrich’s portion of production. Goldrich would also have the exclusive right to purchase the royalty at any time. The royalty would be extinguished upon payback of the loan or purchase by Goldrich. The JV exercised the option to purchase the royalty on August 13, 2012, and the 2% royalty was purchased for the contracted $250,000, funded by the loan from NyacAU.
(5)
As part of his service agreement, the manager of NyacAU was granted 300,000 five-year stock options at an exercise price of $0.20 per share from Goldrich’s employee stock incentive program. The options were issued during the quarter ended June 30, 2012, with the $54,300 fair value of the options accounted for as an increase in our investment in the joint venture.
The timing of repayment of the amount to be paid back from production will be affected by timing of gold production by the joint venture. The JV will commence payments to NyacAU as soon as production begins.
Our primary exploration asset is the hard-rock exploration target at Chandalar and the terms of the Agreement ensure we will retain access to all of its properties for exploration purposes. The JV entered into a lease of the mining rights to placer gold on Goldrich’s Chandalar properties, but a formula is provided for Goldrich to purchase back these rights if the property is needed for hard-rock mining or to the extent hard-rock exploration significantly interferes with placer mining.
ITEM 3.