ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Chandalar Property, Alaska
The Chandalar gold property is currently our only mineral property. It is an exploration stage property. We were attracted to the Chandalar district because of its similarities to productive mining districts, its past positive exploration results, and the opportunity to control multiple attractive gold quartz-vein prospects and adjacent unexplored target areas for large sediment hosted disseminated gold deposits. The gold potential of the Chandalar district is enhanced by similarities to important North American mesothermal gold deposits, a common attribute being a tendency for the mineralization to continue for up to a mile or more at depth, barring structural offset. We believe that our dominant land control eliminates the risk of a potential competitor finding ore deposits located within adjacent claims. Summarily, the scale, number and frequency of the Chandalar district gold-bearing exposures and geochemical anomalies compare favorably to similar attributes of productive mining districts.
Going forward, our primary focus is development of our hard-rock (lode) exploration targets at Chandalar. Subject to sufficient financing, we plan an aggressive diamond-core drilling program on the hard-rock exploration targets which are believed to be the sources of the alluvial gold. The plan calls for about 40 to 45 drill holes totaling about 20,000 feet. Drill hole depths would range from 300 to 700 feet, and the holes would be spread along a five-mile-long mineralized trend that our geological work has identified. The drilling targets are embodied in concepts developed from the technical data that point up the discovery potential for huge, low grade orogenic gold deposits. The Chandalar mineralization can best be classified as orogenic owing to the finely disseminated nature of the gold, close association with sulfides and deposition within an original bedded organic rich (carbon) sedimentary host (Mikado phyllite). The phyllite is highly deformed as a result of tectonic processes. The original sedimentary rocks have been successively altered by multiple phases of metamorphic and hydrothermal alteration which has remobilized gold within the original carbonaceous sediments and into axial fold structures, faults and quartz veins above and peripheral to them.
The Company maintains an extensive file of the prospecting and exploration of the Chandalar Mining district, cataloging documents dated as early as 1904. Most previous work was by mining companies and individuals who were focused on mining the gold placers and quartz veins but who conducted little organized geologically based exploration. Even less attention was given beyond existing vein exposures. There is no reliable accounting of the exploration expenditures over the entire hundred-year period; however, since we (new management) acquired the Company in 2003, $2.468 million of qualifying assessment work has been accomplished (excludes infrastructure, capital equipment, transport cost, and office support). Two drill programs account for a significant portion of the exploration expenditures: a 7,763-foot, reverse circulation, 39-hole reconnaissance-level lode exploration drill program in 2006 and a 15,304-foot, 107-hole reverse circulation placer evaluation drill program in 2007. We also accomplished local mapping of about 40 identified prospect areas; collection and geochemical analyses of approximately 1,400 soil, 1,400 rock, 70 stream sediment and 11 water samples, and preparation of anomaly maps; a trenching program of 45 trenches aggregating of 5,937 feet was of which 4,954 feet exposed bedrock and collection of about 550 trench-wall channel samples; ground magnetometer survey grids of 15 prospect areas, survey lines totaling 28 miles. We have collected and assayed a total of 3,431 surface samples at Chandalar. In addition, approximately 4,500 drill samples have been analyzed.
The Chandalar district has a history of prior production, but there has been no significant recurrent production over the years. Our 2007 exploration work discovered and partially drilled out a large placer gold deposit in the Little Squaw Creek drainage. In 2009, we opened the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine as a test project. Favorable results lead to the expansion of the mine in 2010. So far, start-up production of the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine amounts to 2,022 ounces of fine gold. This deposit is geologically characterized as an aggradational placer gold deposit. It is unusual in the sense that it is the only such known alluvial, or placer, gold deposit in Alaska, although many exist in Siberia. Our discovery contrasts to others in Alaska that are commonly known as bedrock placer gold deposits. Aggradational alluvial gold deposits contain gold particles disseminated through thick sections of unconsolidated stream gravels in contrast to bedrock placer deposits where thin but rich gold-bearing gravel pay streaks rest directly on bedrock surfaces. Aggradational placer gold deposits are generally more uniform and thus more conducive to bulk mining techniques incorporating economies of scale. This contrasts with bedrock placer gold deposits where gold distribution tends to be erratic and highly variable. The plan view of our discovery is somewhat funnel-shaped, and as such has been divided into two distinct geomorphological zones: a Gulch, or narrower channel portion, and a Fan, or broad alluvial apron portion.
During the summer of 2009, we permitted and successfully completed a test mining operation on the upper end of the Gulch portion of the Little Squaw Creek alluvial gold deposit. We mined about 40,000 bank cubic yards of glacial overburden and processed through our wash plant about 9,875 bank cubic yards of gold bearing paleo-stream alluvium, yielding approximately 594 ounces of placer gold which was then converted into about 500 ounces of fine gold. During the following winter of 2009/2010, we raised additional funds to ramp-up the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine into production. That involved substantial infrastructure upgrades, including building a new 30 man mining camp located about two miles from the exploration camp that had been in use since 2004. The 2010 seasonal mining operation involved stripping an estimated 130,000 bank cubic yards of waste material and the mining and processing through our wash plant of about 31,680 bank cubic yards of gold bearing gravels, yielding about 1,522 ounces of fine gold, making it one of the largest of the approximately 250 placer gold mines in Alaska.
At this time, we are seeking ways to finance the 2011 seasonal, normally mid-May through mid-September, placer mining operation at the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine. Financing alternatives include, but are not limited to, joint ventures, contract mining with an in-kind or a net profits sharing agreement, or leasing specific claims to a competent operator while retaining a gold production royalty.
Map 1 - Location of the Chandalar, Alaska Mining District
Location, Access & Geography of Chandalar
Our Chandalar property essentially envelops the entire historic Chandalar mining district, and lies approximately 70 miles north of the Arctic Circle at a latitude of about 67°30'. It is about 190 air miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska and 48 air miles east-northeast of the town of Coldfoot (Map 1). Access to our Chandalar Squaw Lake mining camp and nearby Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine is either by aircraft from Fairbanks, or overland during the winter season via a 100-mile-long ice road from Coldfoot through the community of Chandalar Lake to Squaw Lake.
Geographically, our Chandalar property is situated in rugged terrain just within the south flank of the Brooks Range where elevations range from 1,900 feet in the lower valleys to just over 5,000 feet on the surrounding mountain peaks. The region has undergone glaciation due to multiple ice advances originating from the north and, while no glacial ice remains, the surficial land features of the area reflect abundant evidence of past glaciation. The property is characterized by deeply incised creek valleys that are actively down-cutting the terrain. The steep hill slopes are shingled with frost-fractured slabby slide rock, which is the product of arctic climate mass wasting and erosion. Consequently, bedrock exposure is mostly limited to ridge crests and a few locations in creek bottoms. Vegetation is limited to the peripheral areas at lower elevations where there are relatively continuous spruce forests in the larger river valleys. The higher elevations are characterized by arctic tundra.
Snow melt generally occurs toward the end of May, followed by an intensive, though short, 90-day growing season with 24 hours of daylight and daytime temperatures that range from 60 to 80° Fahrenheit. Freezing temperatures return in late August and freeze-up typically occurs by early October. Winter temperatures, particularly in the lower elevations, can drop to -50° F or colder for extended periods. Annual precipitation is 15 to 20 inches, coming mostly in late summer as rain and during the first half of the winter as snow. Winter snow accumulations are modest. The area is essentially an arctic desert.
Map 2 - Chandalar Mining Claim Block
Chandalar Mining Claims
We have a block of contiguous mining claims at Chandalar that cover a net area of about 17,560 acres (~27.5 square miles) (Map 2), and which are maintained by us specifically for the exploration and possible exploitation of placer and lode gold deposits. The mining claims were located to secure most of the known gold bearing zones occurring within an area approximately five miles by eight miles. Within the claim block, we own in fee simple 426.5 acres as twenty-one approximately 20-acre patented federal lode claims, one 15.7-acre patented federal placer claim, and one 5-acre patented federal mill site. In addition, there are fifty-nine Traditional and MTRSC 40-acre State of Alaska claims lying largely within a block of one-hundred-five 160-acre MTRSC claims. The 23 federal patented claims cover the most important of the known gold-bearing structures. The 164 Traditional and MTRSC state mining claims provide exploration and mining rights to both lode and placer mineral deposits. Unlike federal mining claims, State of Alaska mining claims cannot be patented, but the locator has the exclusive right of possession and extraction of the minerals in or on the claim.
Chandalar Geology and Mineralization
Refer to Maps 3 and 4 for graphic representation of both the hard-rock prospects and alluvial fans on which we are focusing varying degrees of exploration effort, as determined by exploration activities already completed in prior years.
Map 3 - Gold Prospects and Geologic Structure of Chandalar
Interpretation of Exploratory Findings at Chandalar
A spatial relation between the Mikado phyllite unit and the gold placer on Little Squaw Creek is evident. The northeast plunge (about 14°NE) of the altered (+/- mineralized) phyllite unit beginning near the Summit Mine intercepts bedrock of the creek in the vicinity of the head of the placer deposit and continues northward, forming the bedrock below the creek and underlying the placer gold deposit. The placer gold deposit extends along the creek at least a mile to the north as confirmed by drilling. There is evidence that relatively small masses of Pleistocene age ice high in the valley had selectively gouged highly altered zones of the phyllite unit, which the ice followed as a path of least resistance (i.e. the altered phyllite), to an apparent terminal moraine site immediately upstream of the open pit of our Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine. Auriferous stream sediments have since been re-worked into placer deposits perched in thick sequences of glaciofluvial sediments.
The Little Squaw Creek placer, in addition to being a significant gold deposit, is also a substantial geochemical anomaly that indicates the existence of a substantial lode source(s). In 2007, we conducted a reverse circulation drill program on the placer that identified about 10.5 million cubic yards of mineralized material. The placer gold deposit is open to the north and west, and gravel bench deposits remain unevaluated on the east, thereby suggesting to us a reasonable alluvial resource discovery potential of one-half million ounces of fine gold. The placer gold deposit
represents only the coarser fraction of the original in-situ resource in the portion of the lode source that has been eroded to generate it.
Map 4 - Chandalar Exploratory Gold Deposit Drill Target with Proposed Drill Holes
Proposed diamond-core drilling for 2011 is intended to evaluate the degree of mineralization occurring as a large, folded strata-bound rock unit over five miles in length. The proposed drill program will further explore the correlation of the overlying magnetic schist and quartz muscovite chlorite schist, locally hematite-spotted, to the underlying Mikado phyllite and possible mineralization, as well as to the orogenic gold-quartz veins that rise through it. We postulate that feeder zones through which ore-forming fluids rose are associated with dilation zones developed by periodic differential off-set movement between the deep-seated NE and WNW fault zones. Also, multitudes of tension microfractures along the axis of the fold are thought to be variously mineralized with gold. These zones represent primary targets for drilling. Map 4 depicts the core drilling targets zone.
Chandalar Exploration Programs
In the summer of 2011 we have plans to execute a diamond-core drilling exploration program on a series of hard-rock gold targets on our Chandalar claims. These targets contain numerous gold showings and we believe they are the source areas of the alluvial gold deposits in the creek drainages. We believe we have accumulated a body of knowledge on the Chandalar claims which points us toward significant areas of interest for discovery of very large tonnages of mineralization, and our drilling program has been designed to further qualify those targets for potential commercialization. Our 2011 hard-rock drilling plan is extrapolated from a 2007 exploration plan that was not undertaken previously due to financial limitations. Independent third party professionals have analyzed the 2006 hard-rock rotary drill results and the surface exploration work performed in intervening years and have recommended prioritized hard-rock drill targets for our 2011 exploration season.
The property currently does not contain any known probable or proven ore reserves under the definition of ore reserves within SEC Industry Guide 7. However, Mr. Barker, consulting geologist and Chandalar Project Technical Manager, prepared an internal geologic report formatted to 43-101 standards in collaboration with J. O. Kenner and R. B. Murray that covers the hard-rock and placer (or alluvial) gold programs at Chandalar through 2008. That geologic report is dated April 15, 2009 and, at the date of this filing, has not been filed on SEDAR for review by the Canadian authorities. It presents the status of the Chandalar project and provides recommendations and budgets for moving the project forward. The most important specific recommendations of the report are:
1.
Continue the hard-rock trenching program, specifically on the St. Mary’s Pass, Aurora Gulch, Summit (including Bonanza), Pioneer, and Chiga prospects. A detailed program totaling 7,440 feet is recommended. ( Budget- $131,325 )
2.
Design a diamond-core drilling program based on trench results from 2007 and the trenching recommended above. Evaluate the tonnage potential at Mikado-St. Mary’s Pass, Aurora Gulch, Pioneer, and Summit prospects; the results will be the basis for future recommendations of mineralized material delineation drilling. Scout holes should be considered at the Rock Glacier, Ratchet, Pallasgreen, Chiga, Little Squaw west, and possible Northern Lights west extension prospects.
3.
Plan and execute laboratory and on-site bulk sample testing of vein-hosted mineralization zones to obtain repeatable estimates of gold grade where coarse gold grains are present.
4.
Continue exploration for potential bulk minable tonnage deposit(s) based on including lenses or ore shoots of gold-quartz veins with subparallel sheeted and stockwork quartz vein systems and metasediment-hosted disseminated gold mineralization.
5.
Expand the regional exploration program to include gold occurrences between Myrtle Creek on the west and the Middle Fork of the Chandalar River on the east. Continue to evaluate the numerous outlying gold-quartz prospects and unevaluated shear zones throughout the district, particularly under the sediment cover in the north part of the district.
6.
Continue a mineralized material evaluation program and develop, as warranted, a placer gold mine capable of processing 400 cubic yards of gravel per hour and producing 15,000 to 30,000 oz of fine gold per year.
Phase 1: Mineralized material drilling of the Little Squaw Creek alluvial fan. (Budget - $985,600)
·
Determine the northern, eastern and western limits of placer mineralization in the paleo fan.
·
Formulate drill plans for a continuing, future placer exploration program based on seasonal logistical constraints limiting drilling to about 15,000 feet per year. Contingent on the results of the Phase 1 drilling, select the highest priority of Phase 2 options; 2-A (in-fill drilling on the Little Squaw Fan), 2-B (resource evaluation of the Little Squaw gulch), and 2-C (Resource drilling on Big Squaw and Spring Creeks).
7.
Conduct seismic surveys, define the geomorphic classification of the Chandalar placer deposits in comparison to other deposits worldwide, assess marketability for coarse size fraction of placer gold, and present specific recommendations based on the 2007 drilling program.
During 2009, we completed the placer gold test mining operation on Little Squaw Creek as was recommended in Mr. Barker’s April 15, 2009 technical report, and explained in the Test Mine Operations for 2009 section of our 2009 Form 10-K as filed on April 6, 2010. Some exploration of the various other placer gold creeks on the Chandalar property took place. Prospecting work on the hard-rock gold deposit possibilities was also accomplished. That work led to some key understandings of the geology. It also generated an internal Company memorandum by Mr. Barker proposing an exploratory diamond-core drill program of about 40 drill holes aggregating 20,000 feet. Map 4 shows the proposed lay out of the drilling, which is designed to test for large low-grade bulk mineable gold deposits. It would evaluate the degree of mineralization occurring as a large strata-bound unit nearly 5 miles in length, as explained Interpretation of Exploratory Findings at Chandalar section of this document above. We anticipate this proposed drilling plan would require a stand-alone (not integrated with the placer gold mine) budget of approximately $1.5 to 2.0 million dollars.
2009 Test Mining
Our exploration activities of previous years defined a substantial alluvial gold deposit on Little Squaw Creek. The limits and magnitude of this body of mineralized material remain to be determined by continued drilling. An independent registered professional mining engineer, Mr. Paul Martin, calculated it to be at least 10.5 million bank cubic yards containing 0.0246 ounces of fine gold per bank cubic yard, with an overburden to mineralized material stripping ratio of 0.89 to 1. The grade was subsequently adjusted to 0.0238 ounces of fine gold per bank cubic yard to account for a reduced gold fineness when a certified independent assay laboratory bias was discovered. We believe that with continued drilling, the mineralized body may ultimately prove to be twice this size at roughly the same grade.
In 2009, we accomplished a major step in assessing the economic potential of this mineralized body by completing a test mining operation on it. The major findings of the test mining are explained in Item 2 Properties under the section called “Results of Test Mining Operation” of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Most importantly, we found that the mineralized material is a continuous but variably mineralized horizon. There are specific horizons within it that are up to 20 feet thick containing the richest gold grades. The mineralized material is about forty percent composed of gravel, cobbles and boulders set in a sixty percent matrix of fine silt. It is not frozen below twelve to fifteen feet of depth, but is nicely compacted and stands well when opened up. Because of the high silt content, the mineralized material, and the overburden as well, expands by over forty percent in volume when it is mined and converted into loose cubic yards. During 2009 mining test, we stripped approximately 40,000 bank cubic yards of waste material and processed about 9,875 bank cubic yards of gold bearing gravels through our wash plant. About 593.5 ounces of alluvial gold were recovered which, when smelted, yielded 497.5 ounces of fine gold.
2010 Mining
The 2009 alluvial gold test mining operation successfully yielded valuable geological, mining and engineering data that lead us to the decision to ramp-up the project into gold production in the spring of 2010. Infrastructure and mining development at the Little Squaw Creek alluvial gold mine was initiated in late May 2010, with the first gold production being delivered to a smelter-refinery on July 15, 2010. The mining operation ultimately involved stripping an estimated 131,000 bank cubic yards of waste material and the mining and processing of about 31,680 bank cubic yards of gold bearing gravels, from which about 1,522 ounces of fine gold and 259 ounces of fine silver were produced at the refinery. Our gross precious metal sales in 2010 came to $1,904,124.
The 2010 gold production was limited by the lack of capital to get a second wash plant on line. The 2009 wash plant was re-modeled with improvements (primarily an enlarged hopper with a wet grizzly style in-feed) and put on line for the 2010 production. Unfortunately, the plant turned out to be capable of processing only about 29 bank cubic yards per hour on a consistent basis. Attempts at higher processing rates led to overloading the machine and frequent break downs. The plant ran for 1,094 hours, producing at an average rate of about 1.45 ounces of fine gold per hour.
While there were no drill holes within 400 feet of the perimeter of the 2009 test pit, there was mineralized material exposed in three walls of the pit which encouraged management’s decision to expand the mine by following the mineralized material, using in-pit grade control, and mining material to the physical and economic extent possible. No estimate of metallurgical recovery balances can be made regarding the mined mineralized material in 2010 for lack of sufficient prior data about the gold content in the block of ground that was mined. The gold recovery performance of the plant was checked on a consistent basis by panning its tailings. No significant gold was ever found in the tailings, leading management to conclude that the wash plant, albeit undersized for the job, was working properly.
In 2010, 1,914.102 ounces of raw gold concentrates were shipped to the same smelter as used to process to 2009 gold concentrates. This yielded, after melt loss of impurities, 1,779.380 ounces of doré (or bullion) bars from which 1,503.323 ounces of fine gold and 259.356 ounces of silver were won at the refinery. Additionally, 24.1345 ounces of gold nuggets estimated to contain 19.2178 ounces of fine gold were produced and either sold to jewelers or retained by the Company. No assays were made of the placer gold shipped to the smelter. Without this data, no calculations of the purity of the placer, or raw, gold that was mined in 2010 can be made. The calculated gold and silver fineness of the 2010 doré bars is 844.49 (84.449 %) and 145.8 (14.58 %), respectively. This compares favorably with the foregoing 2009 smelter representations, with the gold fineness being 0.74 percent higher and the silver fineness being 6.28 percent higher. These small differences may be due to natural viabilities within the body of mineralized material, or
more likely due to lack of consistent sampling procedures.
For the combined 2009 and 2010 mining seasons, the Company mined a total of about 213,000 bank cubic yards of which about 171,000 bank cubic yards was rejected as waste and an aggregate of about 41,500 bank cubic yards of mineralized material was processed through the wash plant, yielding 2,500 ounces of raw gold in concentrates which was further reduced to about 2,022 ounces of fine gold at the refinery. The average grade of the processed material was about 0.060 ounces of fine gold per bank cubic yard. Only higher grade horizons within the thick section of lower grade mineralized material were targeted for mining. Consequently, the overall stripping ratio of the portion of the Little Squaw Creek Gold deposit mined to date is approximately 4 of waste to 1 of processed mineralized material.
Going forward, our primary focus is development of our hard-rock (lode) exploration targets at Chandalar but a secondary goal is to continue to ramp up production at the Little Squaw Creek alluvial gold mine, with the goal of achieving full production of 30,000 ounces of gold per year. The capital cost to do so is currently estimated to be approximately $20 million. We will also explore to see if it is possible to begin production at any of the other six known alluvial gold deposit targets at Chandalar. Prior to continuing production, we will be required to resolve the existing violation of our permit as it applies to reclamation activities as described in Environmental Risks above. We do not expect this resolution to be difficult nor do we expect it to delay or limit production in the future.
Mine Safety Disclosure
Pursuant to Section 1503(a) of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), issuers that are operators, or that have a subsidiary that is an operator, of a coal or other mine in the United States are required to disclose in their periodic reports filed with the SEC information regarding specified health and safety violations, orders and citations, related assessments and legal actions, and mining-related fatalities. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the Company had two such specified health and safety violations, orders or citations, remedied during the 2010 year, which resulted in $351 in penalties being remitted to the Mine Safety and Health Administration. There were not legal actions, mining-related fatalities, or similar events in relation to the Company’s United States operations requiring disclosure pursuant to Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
ITEM 3.