ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Gyorvary Property located in Lewiston, Fremont County, Wyoming
1. Location
The Gyorvary Property is located approximately 29.5 miles south-southeast of Lander, Fremont County, Wyoming in the southern end of the Wind River Mountain Range in west central Wyoming. The Gyorvary Property is located in the Lewiston Mining District. The Lewiston District is centered on high grade gold bearing veins in the South Pass Greenstone belt. See Figure 1. The Gyorvary property consists of 16 unpatented and 6 patented mining claims comprising 423 acres or 171 hectare. The Company is staking a substantial number of additional claims in the area. Patented mining claims are effectively fee simple private ownership and we believe are highly desirable as they are subject to less restrictive permitting and regulatory issues.
2. Option Agreements
A Lease Agreement with Option to Purchase Agreement between Lander Gold Mines, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Mineral Mountain, and Stephen Gyorvary was entered into on December 14, 2017. The lease includes three patented claims under Mineral Survey #338 which are called the Hidden Hand, Morris and Casselton. Additionally, there are sixteen unpatented lode mining claims included in the lease. The lease entitles Mineral Mountain the exclusive and unrestricted right to explore, mine and mill, and conduct development on the property and to use all facilities including all equipment, structures and infrastructure on the property. The lease also permits the use of the mill in accordance with customary charges. There is a 3% Net Smelter Royalty (NSR) due to Steven Gyorvary on all material processed without regard to whether the Option to Purchase is exercised.
In March 2018, the Company signed a Lease Agreement dated March 8, 2018 for an additional 43.3 acres of 3 patented mining claims known as the Helen G, Mill and Star Lode mining claims, located near the Lewiston claims in the State of Wyoming. The Agreement is for an initial 5 year term and may be extended indefinitely by the Company. It requires the payment of an annual lease payment of $2500 and further payment of royalties of between 2% and 3.5% depending on the price of gold.
Figure 1: Lewiston, Wyoming Location Map
3. Access
The property is accessed by driving south on highway US-287 from Lander, Wyoming, 8.7 miles to highway WY-28, access to the Atlantic City. Travel 17.4 miles southwest on WY-28 (Dickerson Ave) and then turn south (left) on Dickerson Ave, Fort Stombaugh Loop, Prairie Breeze Roads and travel 13.1 miles southeast to Lewiston. The Gyorvary Property then can be accessed by a network of unimproved 4-wheel drive roads which provide access to most of the property.
4. Jurisdiction Risk
Wyoming is generally believed to be favorable to permitting of mines and mining facilities. Wyoming is a resource driven economy with oil and gas production as well as being the location of many mines that produce coal, uranium, iron ore, trona, bentonite and many other mineral. Wyoming is also a state with recent emerging gold districts. There was historic gold prospecting and mining in Wyoming but in recent years there has been extensive exploration and drilling in the Rattlesnake Hills, most recently by RFG Resources, Inc. where 78,000 meters of drilling has occurred. In proximity to the Lewiston district along the Oregon Trail pass, however, there are no mining withdrawals in the area near the Oregon Trail National Historic Parks. The Lewiston District is not within the Sage Grouse focal withdrawal area for mining activity in Wyoming as outlined by the Bureau of Land Management. Just to the north of Atlantic City, U.S. Steel operated an open pit Iron mine for 20 years that was closed in 1982 when reserves were depleted. However, substantial infrastructure and skilled labor are present in Wyoming for commercial mining operations.
5. Mining Claims
The Gyorvary Patents and Unpatented Lode Mining Claims are located in T28N, R98W, Sections 4,5,8 and T29N, R98W, Sections 33 and 34, 6th Principle Meridian, Fremont County, Wyoming. There are 16 unpatented lode mining claims and 3 patented mining claims totaling approximately 380 acres or 154 hectare. Patented mining claims are effectively fee simple private ownership and are highly desirable as they are subject to less restrictive permitting and regulatory issues. The three Helen G, Mill and Star Lode patented mining claims are strategically located in the same area.
Figure 2: Hidden Hand Mine Area Map Southeast of Atlantic City, Wyoming
The patented mining claims are as follows:
Mineral Survey #338 Helen G Lease
Hidden Hand Helen G
Morris Mill
Casselton Star Lode
The unpatented claims on federal lands open to mineral entry that are listed as active by the Bureau of Land Management LR2000 are as follows:
Good Foot Miracle
Jerry Dain Good Hole
Jerry Dain #2 Magyar Aranyaso
Jerry Dain #3 Mighty Nemo
Good Hope Atkins
Veta Grande Boylan
Hidden Hand Frac McKay
Amanda Lode JDW
6. Geology
The rocks in the South Pass area are Archean sediments and volcanic rocks that were deposited more than 2.8 billion years ago (D. Hausel). These rocks were metamorphosed over time to create greenstones, greywackes and metagreywackes that are seen today. The Lewiston area is located opposite and is the east limb of the synform of the Atlantic City-South Pass regional camp (C.S. Bow Anaconda Report). The gold bearing shear zones in the Lewiston District occur in chloritized hematinic metagraywacke of the Miners Delight Formation (D. Hausel, 1988). The lode gold deposits of this area are focused along the shear zones or faults. The strike trending shear zones of the Lewiston District parallel fold limbs in the metagreywackes and are thought to have formed during regional folding, (D. Hausel). Cross cutting shears or faults are poorly mineralized. The strike trending shears are mineralized and can be traced for greater than 3 miles along strike with rich ore shoots occurring in fold closures, with much of the strike exposure covered. Dan Hausel believes there are rich ore shoots hidden below cover that require exploration work to identify in the area of the Hidden Hand Mine. There has been no testing of continuity down dip with the deepest mines in the district not much more than 100 feet deep which are currently not accessible.
7. Rock Sample Assays
In the Lewiston District mineralized widths of 5 to 8 feet to as great as 30 feet at the Hidden Hand with strike lengths of 100 to 500 feet were sampled with assays ranging from 0.001 to .07 opt gold (C.S. Bow Anaconda Report). The highest assay for the Lewiston district found in literature was 3,100 oz/ton gold (PFAFF, 1978) as listed in a State of Wyoming Precious Metals report but no specific assay data was provided. The rock sample data reviewed was collected by U.S. Borax, Newmont, Quincy Energy, James Baughman and others and indicated pervasive gold is present district-wide in concentrations of 1 to 2 grams per ton gold, with some high grade samples present which are greater than 10 grams per ton in certain locales.
8. Drill Results
Drill data in the area reviewed was for the Carissa and Duncan Mine prospects in the South Pass -Atlantic City District to the northwest. No drill data was reviewed for the Lewiston area mines. The drill data reviewed was for drilling in 1973-74, 1989 and 1994. The drilling at the Carissa and Duncan Mine prospects encountered gold bearing veins with widths from less than 1 foot up to 18 feet in width with grades ranging from .025 ounce per ton (opt) to 1.3 opt. The average width of gold bearing veins was 6.84 feet with an average grade of 0.23 opt gold.
9. Mary Ellen Mill
The Mary Ellen Mill is located 10 miles northwest from Lewiston, Wyoming and owned by Steve Gyorvary. The Mary Ellen Mill is located on BLM lands and operates under Wyoming DEQ Permit #6385. The mill is a gravity and floatation circuit that has the through-put capacity of 2 to 3 tons per hour. The gold recovery of the gravity circuit is 60% and the gold recovery of the floatation and gravity circuit is up to 92% based on communication with Stephen Gvorvary. Based on test work done by Hazen Labs from Denver, Colorado, the optimal recovery for gold is obtained by getting the ore ground to 80%, passing 65 mesh size. The mill circuit operates as follows:
●the ore is crushed by passing through a jaw and roll crusher;
●it is stored in a 50 ton fine ore bin;
●the material is then fed through a scoop feed into a 4’x5’ Denver ball mill;
●the material runs through a coarse gold jig and over a Wilfley table to collect the coarse gold;
●the material goes to a size classifier;
●the underflow (material coarser than 65 mesh) gets re-circulated for grinding in the ball mill; and
●the overflow (material finer than 65 mesh) goes to the floatation cells to create a gold concentrate.
The reduction ratio based on communication with Gyorvary is 60 to 1. It is believed that concentrate averages 17 ounces gold per ton.
Figure 3: Claim Map- Patented Claims Yellow, Gyorvary Unpatented Claims Blue
10. Property Acquisitions
Over the course of the next 12 months, we staking or acquiring through lease arrangements additional claims to the north and south of the Gyorvary Property to control the other historic mines including the Mint, Good Hope, Bullion, Iron Duke, Irish Jew and Wolf Mine to the north. It should be noted that other companies such as Newmont Mining, Nugget Gold, Quincy Energy and others had district land positions so exploration could be conducted district wide.
11. Surface Exploration
Over the course of the next 6 to 18 months, we further intend to: (1) complete a thorough geochemical sampling program with rock, soil and stream sediment sampling done systematically to cover the district to identify all anomalous gold occurrences; (2) conduct detailed sampling and mapping of the known gold occurrences; (3) conduct a high resolution, close line spacing, magnetic survey of the district, and (4) create and undertake drill targets for core drilling so as to create definable resources.
12. Underground Exploration and Development
Based on the historic reports and information, the rehabilitation and opening of the underground working at the Hidden Hand Mine and other mines would be a first step in evaluating the mineral potential of the property. Once the underground workings have been opened and rehabilitated for safe work, we believe sampling and drilling will be recommended in order to block out and develop a resource for the Hidden Hand Mine. A drilling budget of $288,000 is estimated in our pro forma budget for a total of 1600 meters of core drilling in year one. The same efforts are intended to occur on the other nearby mines that are expected to be prioritized by ownership, land status, access, data evaluation and historic production.
Once a resource has been determined, mining and milling of the ores is anticipated to occur on site to test the metallurgy and recovery of gold from the ores as a prelude to a full-scale commercial operation. Gyorvary has had test work done by Hazen Labs of Denver, Colorado, and the results of this test work are available to the Company. Mineral Mountain is evaluating whether to conduct additional metallurgical test work by a lab of its choosing to confirm the results of Hazen Labs.
13. Preliminary Mine Rehabilitation and Exploration Plan
The Gyorvary Property has multiple streams of mineral material feed present. Mineral Mountain plans to reopen the Hidden Hand Shaft by re-timbering the old shaft. Assuming the work is successful in repairing the shaft, the Company has outlined a plan to drive new drift along the Hidden Hand vein and to cut drill stations in order to drill short holes along strike and at depths of perhaps 100 feet to 200 feet below the lowest level of the Hidden Hand. These drill holes will target the downward projections of existing ore shoots that are identified from sampling and mapping on the number one level.
14. Bureau of Land Management
Use of the surface of our unpatented mining claims is subject to regulation, the cost of compliance with which could delay or prevent us from proceeding with exploration. Any activities which we conduct on the surface of our unpatented mining claims are subject to compliance with and may be constrained or limited by Bureau of Land Management or Forest Service surface management regulations and state environmental requirements. In addition, there are limits to the uses of the surface of unpatented mining claims, particularly for the types of facilities which would be ancillary to our mining operations, and both the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service have some degree of discretion in allowing the use of federal lands that might adjoin any of our unpatented mining claims for surface activities which we would need for exploration, development and mining operations. For example, in the past the Forest Service considered adoption of a “Roadless Initiative” which would have prohibited the construction of new roads or the re-construction of existing roads in 43 million acres of inventoried road-less areas within the National Forest System. All of the Company’s Wyoming properties are located in or near the National Forest and may be impacted by such “Roadless Initiatives.” As a result, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the access necessary to conduct required exploration, development or ultimately mining activities on those properties. In addition, to the extent we progress towards the development of a mine at any of our properties, there may not be sufficient surface land available for the ancillary facilities necessary to develop the mine. Compliance with the foregoing regulations could be expensive, causing us to delay or not develop certain areas.
Iditarod Mining District Project, Flat, Alaska
1. Executive Summary
Mineral Mountain controls 66 State of Alaska Claims on state land adjacent to the gold mining community of Flat, Alaska. Flat is approximately 280 miles northwest of Anchorage in an area of moderate relief in southwest Alaska. The area is within the Iditarod Mining District. Mineral Mountain believes that an intrusive related gold system occurs within its land holdings. The target is a bulk tonnage open pit gold resource within the prolific Kuskokwim Gold Belt.
Mineral Mountain, through its subsidiary Nordic Gold Mines, Inc., has a lease agreement with an option to purchase with Ben Porterfield, the owner of 30 Alaska state claims. The Company has also staked an additional 36 claims which adjoin the Porterfield owned claims to the south.
The area is served by air transport and there is a well maintained gravel road system connecting the town of Flat with placer workings on four creeks within the area. From the time of the initial discovery in 1908 until 1966, the latest figures available, gold production totaled 1.3 million ounces, ranging from 70,000 to 97,000 oz/yr from about 30 separate placer operations. It is particularly noteworthy that the major placers and most of the production came from streams draining an area no larger than about eight square miles.
There has been little lode mining in the area. The most productive mine, the Golden Horn, which was founded in 1921, shipped a little over 500 tons of ore containing gold grades of about 5 ounces per ton to the Tacoma smelter in the 1920’s and 1930’s.
The area has attracted industry attention because of the substantial production of placer gold from a comparatively small area and postulated favorable geology for the development of economic lode gold deposits. Regional exploration has been conducted by the U.S.G.S. and the U.S.B.M. until the 1960’s and some additional work was done by Union Carbide in the 1970’s, WGM in the 1980’s, and Placer Dome in the 1990’s. Exploration included geological mapping, trenching, rock and soil sampling, drilling, an airborne magnetic and VLF survey, ground magnetic surveys, and initial mineral resource estimates on the Golden Horn Mine.
2. Iditarod Project
Mineral Mountain has acquired the Iditarod Gold project located in the historic Kuskokwim Gold Belt of Southwest Alaska. The Iditarod Project is on State of Alaska land and covers an area of 16.5 square miles. The target is a bulk tonnage open pit gold resource in the prolific Kuskokwim Gold Belt.
The Iditarod Project covers geochemical anomalies of gold and antimony in rocks and soils and the project overlays a large magnetic anomaly that was defined by a 2011 airborne geophysical survey of the Alaska Division of Geological & Geophysical Survey (DGGS). The claim block also contains identified gold prospects (Golden Ground & Nelson Prospect). The project is located close to Flat, Alaska which is Alaska’s third largest placer district by production. The presence of placer gold is often a good indication of bedrock enrichment.
Over the next 24 months, Mineral Mountain is planning a summer field program of soil and rock chip sampling and geologic mapping on the property that will lead to a drill program. The current plan is to collect in excess of 2,000 soil samples to explore the Iditarod Project and define a drill target. The 4,000 foot Flat Airstrip is close to the project and will be the staging area for any exploration program.
3. Iditarod Target
Ben Porterfield identified an intrusive related gold target adjacent to the Flat placer gold district based on airborne magnetic data that was collected by the State of Alaska in 2011. The State of Alaska collected airborne data over State lands in gold trends throughout Alaska and the Flat work identified a strong magnetic anomaly four miles northeast of Flat. We believe this magnetic anomaly alone is important because the magnetic signatures of gold systems in the Tintina Gold Belt are almost always associated with magnetic highs. The Iditarod target is enhanced by the geochemistry of rocks and soils that show strong results of antimony, bismuth, and arsenic, all pathfinder elements in the large intrusive related gold systems in Alaska and the Yukon. The geology of the magnetic anomaly is also a strong indication of mineralization as the rock is hornfel - the Kuskokwim sediments have been thermally altered by an underlying heat source - in this case Ben Porterfield and Mineral Mountain suspect a large Tombstone Granite that is gold mineralized is the cause of the magnetic anomaly and the hornfel sediments.
The Iditarod target has the following characteristics that make it a prime drill target - proximity to the 3rd largest placer district in Alaska (Flat), rock and soil samples that have elevated pathfinder (Bi, Sb, and As) elements in addition to gold mineralization, a strong magnetic high anomaly from airborne geophysics, there are two named gold prospects in the claim block, Nielson Ground and Golden Prospect (State of Alaska report), and finally the geology of the area is strong hornfel with veining and silicification. An additional consideration is that Iditarod is 35 miles from a 45 million ounce gold deposit - Donlin Creek. There are numerous reports on work done by gold exploration companies over a thirty-year period in the Flat district on Doyon land and federal mining claims that points to a large gold system in the Flat District. Mineral Mountain believes that the Iditarod ground holds a large disseminated intrusive related gold system.
4. Location, Access, Infrastructure and Climate
The town of Flat is located approximately 280 air miles (470 km) northwest of Anchorage, 90 air miles (145 km) southwest of McGrath, and 165 air miles (275 km) northeast of Bethel. The Iditarod or Flat District is drained by Otter and Bonanza Creeks. Both flow westward to the Iditarod River, which, in turn, flows northward to the Yukon River. Earlier in this century during the most active days of placer mining, equipment and supplies were barged up the Iditarod and then hauled overland to Flat. Recent activity in the district has been sustained by air transport. A 4,100-foot state maintained airstrip capable of handling large freight aircraft is located between Flat and Discovery along Otter Creek. A well-maintained gravel road system connects Flat with the placer workings on Flat, Willow, Chicken, and Prince Creeks. A spur road provides access to the top of Chicken Mountain and the upper Chicken and Flat Creek placers. A poorly maintained road connects Flat with the town site of Iditarod, seven miles to the northwest. Supply centers for the area are Anchorage and McGrath. Anchorage can provide a complete range of services, including support staff and nearly all types of supplies. Charter air service to Flat is readily arranged and often can be incorporated into scheduled service to the region. McGrath is the nearest local service center. It is a community of approximately 500 and can provide basic accommodations, food, telephone, all types of fuel, fixed wing air service, and limited skilled labor. McGrath is a regional center. It is on the route of regularly scheduled air service from Anchorage for both freight and passenger service. The community has a 5,400 foot paved runway capable of handling jet aircraft. It lies on the Kuskokwim River which can handle shallow barge traffic from McGrath to the mouth of the river in the Bering Sea.
A winter trail connects McGrath to the Flat area. Certain accommodations and services are available in Flat. The present placer miners can provide rental vehicles, limited heavy equipment for trenching and excavation, housing, and some labor and camp services. These services and facilities, combined with the road network and large airstrip, make Flat one of the more accessible areas for working in interior Alaska. Flat, because of its proximity to coastal Alaska, enjoys a relatively mild climate compared to the interior regions of Alaska. Summer temperatures from May through September average near 0° to 70°F. Winter lows, from November through March are commonly -10° to +20°F. Total precipitation is approximately 18 inches of water. Local placer miners commonly operate from May through October. Winter is an excellent time for cross country travel and transport of heavy equipment and geophysical work. Geologic field work and drilling are readily conducted during the summer.
The moderate relief (about 2,000 feet) is characterized by rolling hills with low-lying intervening areas. Chicken Mountain, the highest feature within the block, is 2,380 feet in elevation. The lowest point is less than 300 feet above sea level. Black spruce, birch, alder, dense growths of willow, and extensive soils cover hillsides and valley floors. Higher elevations and ridge tops are covered with tundra vegetation over mixed soil and talus. In general, rocks are poorly exposed due to deep weathering, especially in mineralized areas.
5. Land Holdings
The property is located on State of Alaska land is held by State of Alaska claims. Mineral Mountain holds rights to 66 state mining claims, each claim is 160 acres. It owns 36 of the claims and leases another 30. The leased claims contain an option to purchase from the lessor, Ben Porterfield. The terms of the lease comprise escalating payments to Porterfield with a work commitment on the property. The State of Alaska requires an Affidavit of Work Performed on the property or a payment to the State of Alaska in lieu of work to be submitted by November 30th of each year. The State further requires a yearly payment for holding the State Claims.
6. Regional Geology
The Iditarod Mining District lies on the northwest flank of the Kuskokwim Mountains, which are underlain principally by a thick section of sedimentary rocks. The section, dominated by graywacke and shale of the Upper Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary Kuskokwim Group, locally contains interbedded, intermediate to basic tuffs, flows, and agglomerates. Basal units are calcareous or dolomitic, but the upper portion becomes non-marine and locally contains coal beds.
The Iditarod-Nixon Fork Fault, a major, trending strike-slip fault with 20 to 70 miles northeast of right lateral displacement, follows Bonanza Creek on the south side of the Iditarod district. The major displacement is Late Cretaceous to Early Tertiary in age. Late Cretaceous to Tertiary intrusive igneous rocks are found throughout the Kuskokwim region, but they appear to be concentrated near major faults. The intrusives generally range in composition from gabbro to monzonite or quartz monzonite and show considerable compositional variation within individual plutons. Many are zoned with mafic margins and more felsic cores. At the present erosion level, only the upper portions of most intrusives have been exposed. Many lode and placer metal occurrences in the lower Kuskokwim region are associated with these intrusives or the extensive hornfel aureoles that commonly border them. The metals recovered are predominately gold, silver, tungsten, antimony, arsenic, and mercury. Some tin, platinum, and uranium minerals have been noted in placer concentrates. Felsic volcanic rocks of Eocene age occur locally along the Iditarod-Nixon Fork Fault and along fold structures. Molybdenum mineralization has been observed in a few felsic intrusives of uncertain age within the region. Kuskokwim Group sedimentary rocks near Flat have been intruded by two monzonite plutons known as the Chicken Mountain and Black Creek Stocks plus lesser dikes and plugs. The sedimentary section, which tends northeast, consists of dark-grey to black shale, siltstone, sandstone, and arkose with minor conglomerate and coal. Adjacent to the intrusives, these rocks are commonly converted to argillite and hornfel. The hornfel zone commonly extends to a least 1,000 feet from the contact and tends to weather in positive relief.
The Chicken Mountain (or Flat Creek) stock is oval in shape, slightly elongated to the north-northwest, and covers four to five square miles. The Black Creek stock has a pronounced northeast elongation and covers approximately two square miles. The proximity of the two stocks as well as their similar compositions and zoning patterns (varying from gabbro to quartz monzonite), suggest that the two bodies may be cupolas off a single intrusive mass. Basal rocks on the crest of Chicken Mountain which extend northward almost to the Black Creek stock, and on the northwest side of the Black Creek stock may be either volcanic rocks consanguineous with, and intruded by, the stocks or a fine-grained chilled phase of the gabbro. The variety and zoning of igneous rocks, as well as the presence of deuteric alteration and hybrid rocks (such as orthoclase-bearing and biotite rich gabbro), suggest strong differentiation of the parent magma and widespread disequilibrium conditions. Both deuteric and hydrothermal alteration effects have been observed adjacent to and within the two stocks, but in general, alteration patterns are poorly defined.
Alteration is most pronounced adjacent to structures such as veins and faults. Sedimentary wall rocks are commonly hornfeled and, in places, silicified adjacent to the monzonite stocks. Despite the generally unreactive nature of the sediments, there is a wide zone of strong hydrothermal alteration in wall rocks along the southeastern contact of the Black Creek stock. There are significant gold values in zones containing quartz veins and veinlets in the heads of Flat, Chicken, and Happy Creeks.
This mineralization is apparently related to the more felsic intrusive phases near the center of the Chicken Mountain stock. Gold assays of several ounces per ton were obtained from the northeast-striking Golden Horn vein at Black Creek. This vein consists of quartz, calcite, scheelite, and arsenopyrite, with lesser pyrite, stibnite, galena, sphalerite, and traces of molybdenite. The vein had a maximum width of 2.5 feet, but horsetails into several smaller veins at a depth of 270 feet in the lower workings of the Golden Horn Mine. It cuts biotite gabbro along and sub-parallel to the eastern contact of the Black Creek stock. Quartz-scheelite veins and veinlets cut monzonite northwest of the Golden Horn vein. Gold enrichment occurs over wide (greater than 100 feet) zones in altered wall rock and monzonite along portions of the eastern Black Creek contact zone. Quartz-stibnite-cinnabar veins have been noted at several lode prospects in the district as well as in the Black Creek stock and contact zone.
Placer gold produced in the Iditarod district has come almost entirely from streams that drain the two monzonite stocks and/or their contact zones. Total production is over 1.3 million ounces and comes from sources that probably cover no more than about eight square miles. Cinnabar is ubiquitous in sluice concentrates, and scheelite is an abundant constituent in certain locations, especially Otter Creek. Other minerals reported in placers include stibnite, cassiterite, chromite, magnetite, arsenopyrite, galena, zircon, monazite, and allanite. Placer deposits are both alluvial and residual types. Residual or (semi-residual) placers weathered from monzonite bedrock have been worked near the junction of Black and Otter Creeks and along the upper reaches of Happy, Flay, and Chicken Creeks near the common head.
7. Placer Production
Gold was discovered near Flat on Christmas Day, 1908, when two prospectors from Ophir found values on Otter Creek at what is now the town site of Discovery. There was little mining around Flat during 1909 as news of the find leaked out slowly, but more than 2,000 people arrived in 1910 with equipment and supplies. The first dredge was installed on Flat Creek in 1912 and by 1915 there were 27 mining operations, including two dredges. A yearly account of mining activity is available from the U.S. Geological Survey (see reports by Brooks, Martin, Moffit, and Smith) and the U.S. Bureau of Mines (see Smith reports). The following data are from these sources. The years 1911 and 1912 were most productive, yielding approximately 120,000 and 169,000 troy ounces of gold respectively. Between 1913 and 1920 annual production ranged from 70,000 to 97,000 troy ounces. Placer recoveries waned between 1920 and 1933 to less than 25,000 ounces per year due to water shortages, transportation difficulties, and early freeze-ups. Increased output, which persisted until World War II, followed the 1934 rise in gold prices from $20.67 to $35.00 per ounce. Production again recovered after a sharp drop in 1943 and 1944 when gold mining activities were halted by the War Production Board. Total production to 1966, which is the latest figure available, was about 1.3 million troy ounces of gold.
It is noteworthy that the major placers are on streams draining two areas which total no more than eight square miles. The main production was by dredging on Flat, Otter, and Black Creeks. Independent operations on Otter, Willow, Happy, Chicken, Slate, and other smaller creeks also produced a considerable quantity of gold. The smaller operations were dragline, hydraulic and hand sluicing on the streams and their benches.
Both alluvial and residual placers at the heads of Happy, Flat and Chicken Creeks have been known since about 1910. A combination of placer and residual gold was reported by Brooks (1915) overlying monzonite bedrock in Otter Creek, now covered by tailings.
8. Lode Production
Lode production from the Flat district is limited. Ore from quartz stringers at the head of Flat Creek with a “considerable amount of gold” was shipped to Tacoma in 1915 (Brooks, 1915). Other lode prospects are at the heads of Happy and Granite Creeks and in the Black Creek-Golden Horn Mine area. The Golden Horn Mine was the district’s most productive lode source. This vein deposit, discovered in 1921, was first mined in 1922, and ore shipments were made that year and also in 1925, 1936, and 1937. A total of 528 tons of ore shipped to the smelter at Tacoma contained 2,706 ounces of gold, 2,620 ounces of silver, 9,336 pounds of lead and 653 pounds of zinc.
There are at least 303 feet of shafts, 1,025 feet of drifts, 300 feet of crosscuts, and 180 feet of raises in the Golden Horn. Configurations of the old workings are speculative because the mine is now flooded and partially frozen, but most of the tunneling strikes northeast and southwest of the main shaft. Old workings approximately 300 feet south of the Golden Horn nine consist of two shafts, 25 and 40 feet deep, and several pits.
9. Previous Work
Many investigators have worked in the Flat Block. Numerous government studies have identified geology in this area as potentially favorable for viable lode sources of gold. Between 1910 and 1930, U.S. Geological Survey (“U.S.G.S.”) investigators of the area included Brooks, Eakin, Maddren, Martin, Mertie, Moffit, and Smith. Valuable information on production, bedrock geology, placers, and lode potential was recorded by these investigators. More recently, the U.S.B.M. conducted studies which supported the conclusion that this is a favorable location with potential viable lode sources of gold (see investigations by Kimball, 1969, and Maloney, 1962). The district was the subject of a joint U.S.G.S., Alaska Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys, and University of Alaska investigation that led to several State publications. Kimball’s work involved the evaluation of lode gold in the monzonite stocks, using a gasoline-powered track-mounted auger, and even though only gold and silver were measured and the five to twelve pound samples were probably too small to accurately represent bedrock gold values, the results favored further exploration. Maloney was concerned with mercury-antimony potential, and most of his samples were from trenches cut in the Black Creek and upper Chicken Creek areas. The U.S.G.S., Alaska Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys, and University of Alaska have for several years been studying the Flat area. These consist of both regional and detailed studies. Reports discussing this work have been published, including the State of Alaska Professional Paper 97.
10. Mineral Potential
A number of lode and placer gold occurrences associated with monzonitic intrusives are present in the lower Kuskokwim region. These intrusives are commonly surrounded by extensive hornfels aureoles and exhibit a range of compositional zoning. Common accessory metals associated with the gold mineralization are silver, tungsten, antimony, arsenic, mercury and tin. Substantial placer gold has been recovered from some of these systems, and mining in the region has continued to the present.
Flat is the most well developed of these systems. Nearly all the gold has come from placer production, but several lode occurrences have been recognized. Exploration programs in the area have identified a number of anomalous areas. However, lode exploration has focused on the Golden Horn vein, a relatively small part of the entire system. Compilation and review of the previous reports and recent geologic mapping should assist in developing additional targets. The known occurrences suggest the potential in the area for high grade quartz veins, disseminated and stockwork gold in intrusive or wall rock, and additional placer deposits.
11. Future Exploration
Future exploration program specifics will be dictated by the type of target selected. The first phase of any project will include a compilation and review of the available data. This would be followed by an orientation trip to gain a better appreciation of the exposure type of mineralization, and working conditions. After this initial review, it would be possible to determine whether to pursue targets generated in previous programs or to establish new objectives.
Work in the area is readily based from existing facilities between Flat and Discovery, near the state maintained airstrip. For preliminary short term programs, it may be possible to obtain lodging and vehicles from residents of the area. For longer term programs, vacant buildings are available for rent and may be used for lodging or other support activities. Food and lodging costs are approximately $200 per day per person. Much of the geologic work could be done from the existing road network. Labor costs for field help are on the order of $400 per person per day. Professional contract rates (geologists & field techs) are $600 to $1,000+ per day per person. Bulk supplies, such as food, fuel, vehicles and equipment can be delivered by short notice by air cargo from Anchorage for $1.75 per pound. Fixed wing flight chartered for personnel and cargo will generally cost about $600 per hour, including fuel, from Anchorage, Fairbanks, or McGrath. Helicopter service, will cost about $800-$2,000 per hour, depending on the aircraft with fuel extra. Internet Service to field crews is now a requirement.
ITEM 3.