ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The significant properties in which the Company has an interest are described below.
Montanore Property
The Montanore Project is located in Sanders and Lincoln Counties in northwestern Montana and consists of two federal patented mining claims and approximately 776 unpatented lode mining claims and mill sites, which cover approximately 1700 acres. The unpatented lode claims and mill sites are owned by the Company and are held subject to a $125 per claim annual payment to the Federal Government.
The Company’s ownership of the Montanore deposit stems primarily from its ownership of 2 patented mining claims, identified as HR 133 and HR 134, which cover the surface outcrop or “apex” of the gently dipping mineralized beds. According to US mining law, the holders of claims covering the apex of a dipping, tabular deposit own the minerals to depth, even if the deposit passes from beneath the apex claim. For the Company’s claims at Montanore these “extralateral rights” have been confirmed by the US Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior and upheld in US District Court. In addition to the patented apex claims, the Company owns unpatented claims located along the fault which bounds the southwestern margin of the deposit, and which extend outside of the western border of the Cabinet Wilderness Area.
The Montanore Project deposit can be reached from Noxon, the nearest town, by taking State Highway 200 about 2 miles to the east and then north about 5 miles on a secondary graveled road to the junction of the west and east forks of Rock Creek. From this point it is about a 4 mile hike up a Jeep trail behind a locked U.S. Forest Service gate to the deposit outcrop. The deposit outcrops near the border of, and lies entirely within the Cabinet Wilderness Area. Because any future mining of the deposit would take place underground and the Company has access to the deposit from outside the Cabinet Wilderness Area, (our patented mining claims and certain other mineral rights predate the wilderness area designation), we do not believe that any future mining or associated surface activity would impact the wilderness area. The Company’s holdings for operational access and infrastructure support for the project are located to the east, south of the town of Libby, and are accessed from that major supply point by about 16 miles of secondary road up Libby Creek. There is no plant, equipment, subsurface improvements or
equipment other than a 14,000-foot adit, which was plugged and graded by Noranda and is currently in reclamation. The Company expects to obtain power by extending a Flathead Electric power line from Noxon, Montana, located approximately 18 miles from the Montanore property. The Company owns water rights associated with the Montanore property which it believes will be sufficient for possible mining activities.
Non-Reserves - Mineralized Material; Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources
The estimate of mineralized material set forth below was prepared by Mine Development Associates. The estimate was prepared in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 based on silver and copper prices of $6.24 per ounce and $1.26 per pound, respectively, which represent the three year rolling average prices at December 31, 2005.
Mineralized Material Estimate in Accordance with U.S. SEC Industry Guide 7
Tons
Silver Grade
(Ounces per ton)
Copper Grade
Cutoff
(Silver ounces per ton)
Mineralized Material
81,506,000
2.04
0.75%
1.0
In accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101, MDA has estimated the resource at Montanore as set forth below. Steve Ristorcelli, R.P. Geo., C.P.G. and David C. Fitch, C.P.G., are the qualified persons under Canadian National Instrument 43-101 for this resource estimate.
Cautionary Note to US Investors concerning estimates of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources
This section uses the terms "measured mineral resources" and "indicated mineral resources". We advise US investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the US Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them, and describes the equivalent as "Mineralized Material". US Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves.
Cautionary Note to US Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources
This section uses the term "inferred mineral resources." We advise US investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the US Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. US investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of the inferred mineral resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable.
Resource Estimate in Accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101
Tons
Silver Grade
(Ounces per ton)
Copper Grade
Cutoff
(Silver ounces per ton)
Measured
4,026,000
1.85
0.74%
1.0
Indicated
77,480,000
2.05
0.75%
1.0
Inferred
35,080,000
1.85
0.71%
1.0
Geology
The Montanore deposit occurs within Revett Formation quartzite of the Belt Super Group, Precambrian sedimentary rock that crop out over much of western Montana, northern Idaho, and parts of adjacent British Columbia.
The Montanore deposit has been defined as being at least 12,500 feet long and varies between 500 and 4,000 feet in width. The long axis of the deposit trends in a northwesterly direction parallel with a regional fault that bounds the mineralization on the southwest. The deposit dips approximately 12 degrees to the northwest, parallel with its long axis. Mineralization occurs within two mineralized beds over much of the deposit’s length. Overall the upper zone averages 29.9 feet in thickness and the lower zone 34.8 feet. Unmineralized strata between beds varies between 20 and 200 feet thick. The deposit remains open to the northwest within the Company’s extra-lateral rights.
History
In 1983, U.S. Borax and Chemical Corporation discovered the Montanore silver/copper deposit, which extended in part beneath what is now the Company’s property. In 1984 a lease for 11 claims was entered into between U.S. Borax and our predecessor, Heidelberg Silver Mining Co., Inc. U.S. Borax conducted more than 70,000 feet of core drilling from the surface, which outlined the bedded silver/copper mineralization. In 1988, U.S. Borax and partners sold their interest in the project to a joint venture between Noranda Minerals Corp. and Montana Reserves Co.
Also in 1988, Newhi, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, acquired the assets of Heidelberg through a corporate merger. The assets acquired by Newhi consisted primarily of 34 unpatented mining claims located along the fault that borders the Montanore deposit, and a 4 acre patented mill site. In 1993, we determined that 18 of the mining claims were immaterial to the maintenance of our interest in the Montanore project and these claims were dropped. Of the remaining 16 claims, 11 claims were leased to Noranda for an annual payment of $25,000 and a net profits interest.
In late 1989, Noranda began construction of an adit using a conventional tunneling method from a point east of the Cabinet Wilderness Area. The purpose of the program was to more accurately define and develop a portion of the deposit containing approximately 30 million tons. The proposed work was to include a 3-mile long decline and approximately 2,000 feet of lateral development in the vicinity of the deposit. Close spaced drilling was planned from these workings and bulk metallurgical samples were to be taken during this phase. In December 1991, tunneling was stopped at approximately 14,000 feet, or about 2,000 feet short of the deposit, pending the completion of the project’s environmental impact statement (EIS). Also during the year Noranda completed the process to acquire patents to the two “apex” claims controlling the deposit. In 1993, the joint venture between Noranda and Montana Reserves was dissolved with Noranda retaining rights to the project.
During 1993, the Montanore EIS was approved and all of the important permits for the mine were granted. As part of the EIS process, this approval was subject to appeal, and several appeals were made. In 1994, the US Forest Service denied all appeals. In 1991, an environmental group brought suit against Noranda and the US Forest Service concerning the validation of Noranda’s apex claims. In 1993, the US Secretary of Agriculture found that Noranda’s mining claims were valid, and in 1997 the US District Court hearing the case also ruled that Noranda’s claims were valid. The court decision was appealed and in March, 1999 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the U.S. District Court decision. In 2001 the U.S. government issued patents for the two claims covering the apex of the deposit and thus assuring Noranda ownership of the Montanore deposit.
In 2002, Noranda notified us that it was abandoning its rights to the project. Under terms of its agreement, Noranda was bound to quitclaim to us any claims that overlapped the original Heidelberg claims. As the newly patented apex claims were overlapping, Noranda deeded these claims to Newhi in August 2002. The mineral rights we acquired are subject to a $0.20 per ton royalty, and a 5% net profits royalty which would commence after the operator has recovered all of its exploration and development costs. In December 2002, Noranda transferred to us 70,000 feet of drill core and all geologic, environmental, and engineering data generated during its 14 year management of the project.
The Company resubmitted its plan of operation and hard rock mine operating permit application for the Montanore project to the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and Montana Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) at the end of December 2004. The application represents the identical project on public land that each agency reviewed and approved for Noranda in 1993.
The Montanore property is undergoing an extensive optimization review and feasibility study in order to update the mine plan and to determine the optimal rates of production. We have spent an estimated $4.2 million on the Montanore property since acquiring it, primarily on the re-permitting process and a pre-feasibility study, and an additional $50,000 per year in property holding costs. We estimate expenditures of at least $4.0 million in 2006 in connection with the continued permitting, engineering, and exploration.
Engineering
McIntosh Engineering and Hatch Ltd. continue work on project engineering, including optimization, trade-off, design revisions, and other key evaluations for the Montanore project. The engineering effort has advanced mine planning, mine and mill designs, operational criteria, and other key aspects of project planning and cost estimates. Preliminary mine plans and costs were completed late in the fourth quarter of 2005. We are currently completing an internal review and are working with McIntosh and Hatch to finalize the report and refine the plans and designs. This detailed engineering work by McIntosh and Hatch is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006. The results from these studies will provide the direction and planning necessary to move to the next stage of project development.
Mine planning information developed by McIntosh during this stage of the engineering evaluation used Vulcan mine planning software. Mines Management has purchased the software and is initiating advancement of the McIntosh mine plan design in the first quarter of 2006. In addition, this computer model will assist in developing a preliminary underground drilling program to be implemented when access to the Libby adit is obtained.
Smelting
Mines Management has initiated discussions with smelters and expects discussions to continue as part of the detailed design and engineering cost efforts throughout 2006. This information will be important in mine planning and operational cost considerations for the project. Defining smelting costs and terms are considered in the economic parameters for grade cut-off considerations in the mine plan.
Permitting and Environmental
During 2005, we continued to advance the permitting and optimization review of the Montanore project. The U.S. Forest Service (the “USFS”) and the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (the “Montana DEQ”) have been actively engaged in reviewing company reports and applications. During August 2005 public scoping meetings were held in Libby and Trout Creek, Montana, and Bonners Ferry, Idaho, out of which limited comments were received concerning the Montanore project. All comments were documented by the USFS and Montana DEQ and will be addressed in the final EIS. The
public comment period for the Montanore Project closed in September 2005. The U.S. Forest Service and Montana DEQ have compiled a list of comments and issues that will be incorporated into the EIS. ERO, a Denver based EIS contractor, was retained and initiated a review of the transmission line and mine water permit applications in an effort to assist agency staff in the review process. We and our consultants are working with the agencies and the EIS contractors to address design and operational plans as part of the overall permitting process.
We have initiated field work and technical efforts focused on fisheries habitat evaluation, fisheries population, wildlife, vegetation, threatened and endangered species, visual assessments, and other key environmental elements. At the request of the MDEQ the Company recently completed a water sampling program for the neighboring wilderness lakes to establish current lake and stream baseline conditions. This information was used to support a regional and local hydrologic report update for the project area.
We submitted the 230 kv power transmission line permit application during the second quarter of 2005. Montana DEQ/ERO has reviewed the initial permit transmission line application and has provided comments to us. We are actively working on providing supplemental information to support the transmission line application. We expect to submit the supplemental transmission line application in the first half of 2006.
A Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System draft application was submitted to the Montana DEQ in the third quarter 2005. Preliminary comments from the agency were received and a final permit application was submitted in the fourth quarter 2005. This permit application is necessary for the project and will authorize the proposed management of water during operations.
Montana permitting regulations require the Company to submit a Hard Rock Mine Impact Analysis to local forms of government. This report assesses potential economic benefits and impacts to local government services. Mines Management submitted and presented this Impact Analysis to the Lincoln County and City of Libby governmental officials, who are currently reviewing it. Once the Analysis and report are approved, the document will be submitted to the State for review and referred to the Hard Rock Mining Impact Board for approval.
In the third quarter of 2005 the Company held consultation meetings with local tribal organizations which included a site visit to Montanore. This is the first of several steps required in the approval process.
Advance and Iroquois Properties
The Company owns the Advance and Iroquois zinc-lead exploration properties located in northeastern Washington State, approximately 6 miles south of the Canadian border. The properties are situated 5 miles apart along a belt of Cambrian carbonate sediments that have acted as host rocks for several former mines. Both properties are easily accessible on secondary graveled roads by two wheel drive vehicles. A large zinc smelter and refinery is located at Trail, British Columbia, Canada, approximately 17 miles distance, over excellent roads.
The Company was originally formed in 1947 to explore the Advance and Iroquois properties. Since that time, Mines Management has leased its holdings to major companies including: Rare Metals, Inc. (El Paso Natural Gas) (1959-65), The Bunker Hill Company (1962-65), Cominco American, Inc. (1966-67 and 1974-75), Brinco, Ltd. (RTZ Group) (1977-78), and Equinox Resources Ltd. (1989-91). Total expenditures on the properties to date are estimated to be at least $1,500,000.
The Advance and Iroquois properties are located along the Deep Lake Trend, a northeast-striking belt of Cambrian carbonate rocks collectively designated as the Metaline Limestone. Rocks of the Deep Lake Trend have been strongly folded and faulted by numerous high-angle as well as thrust faults. As a result the Metaline Limestone has a complex outcrop pattern, with steeply overturned bedding.
Zones of brecciation are found throughout the Metaline Limestone and are often, but not always, the location of zinc and lead sulfide mineralization. These features are predominantly stratabound and have gradational, often irregular borders. Individual breccia bodies are crudely lensoid in cross section and have third dimensions that attain considerable length. The zones often occur in an enechelon, and sometimes interconnected, pattern. A variety of evidence suggests that the breccia bodies are solution collapse features controlled by favorable stratigraphy or lithologic facies.
Mineralization consists of irregular bands, lenses, and fine disseminations of sphalerite and galena accompanied by varying amounts of pyrite. The mineralization is considered to have been localized by permeable zones within and peripheral to breccia bodies created by solution collapse. The sulfide minerals are found in white dolomite that makes up the breccia matrix and fills other voids, and also as selective replacements of the host carbonate rocks. Individual deposits have irregular gradational borders and are crudely lensoidal to oval in outline. Their elongated third dimension parallels the regional strike of the host rocks, and often plunge at low angles. Cross sectional widths up to 80 feet and heights of as much as 150 feet have been noted in the more prominent zones. Lengths of mineralization vary up to 650 feet. The deposits have a tendency to occur together in an enechelon pattern over a stratigraphic interval of as much as 300 feet. Such groupings of deposits may be more or less interconnected and have composite lengths of as much as 5000 feet. Metal values generally decrease outward thus necessitating a border to be established by economic consideration. Although individual sample values within a deposit may be as high as 20% zinc, average values for a deposit will usually range up to 7% zinc and 1% lead depending upon the “assay border” selected.
The Advance property consists of 720 acres of patented mineral rights, located approximately 5 miles east of the town of Northport. The property is reached from Northport, the nearest town, by taking the paved Deep Lake road south for 4 miles to the graveled Black Canyon road and thence north for 3 miles. The Metaline Formation is the principal rock unit to crop out on the Advance property. Exploration consisting of soil sampling, drilling, trenching, and tunneling has shown that several zones of low-grade, disseminated zinc mineralization occur on the property. The Advance property is without known reserves, is considered to be of an exploratory nature, and is held by the Company on a maintenance basis.
The Iroquois property consists of 62 acres of patented mineral and surface rights, and 15 unpatented mining claims containing about 300 acres. The property is reached from Northport, the nearest town, by taking the paved Deep Lake road south and east for 19 miles to the graveled road marked Iroquois Mine Road, and thence northeast for three miles. The unpatented mining claims are held subject to a $100 per claim annual payment to the Federal government. More than 25,000 feet of drilling and approximately 2,600 feet of tunneling have shown low-grade mineralization to occur in multiple zones, extending for the entire 5,000 foot length of the property. Most of the exploration has been concentrated in one area where a mineralized zone of disseminated zinc with associated lead values has been outlined over approximately 900 feet in length and within 300 feet of the surface. The Iroquois property is without known reserves, is considered to be of an exploratory nature and is held by the Company on a maintenance basis.
Oil Interests
The Company receives income from a 10.16% working interest in 4 oil wells on the Clark lease in Sumner County, Kansas. Although the lease has now produced for more than 40 years, independent consultants calculated the Company’s 1981 share of the remaining reserves available through primary and secondary recovery to be at least 20,000 barrels. Production since 1981 has totaled approximately 9600 barrels to the Company’s account. The Company does not engage in oil and gas exploration or production activities.
ITEM 3.