ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The significant properties in which the Company has an interest are described below.
Montanore Property
The Montanore Project is located in Sanders and Lincoln Counties in northwestern Montana and consists of two federal patented mining claims and approximately 1,105 unpatented lode mining claims and mill sites. The unpatented lode claims and mill sites are owned by the Company and are held subject to a $125 per claim annual payment to the Federal government.
The Company's ownership of the Montanore deposit stems primarily from its ownership of two patented mining claims, identified as HR 133 and HR 134, which cover the surface outcrop or "apex" of the gently dipping mineralized beds. According to U.S. mining law, the holders of claims covering the apex of a dipping, tabular deposit own the minerals to depth, even if the deposit passes from beneath the apex claim. For the Company's claims at Montanore these "extralateral rights" have been confirmed by the U.S. Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior and upheld in U.S. District Court. In addition to the patented apex claims, the Company owns unpatented claims located along the fault which bounds the southwestern margin of the deposit and extends outside of the western border of the Cabinet Wilderness Area.
The Company's property holdings for operational access and infrastructure support for the Montanore Project are located to the east of the deposit, south of the town of Libby, and are accessed from Libby by about 16 miles of secondary road up Libby Creek. The apex of the deposit can be reached from Noxon, the nearest town, by taking State Highway 200 about 2 miles to the east and then north about 5 miles on a secondary graveled road to the junction of the west and east forks of Rock Creek. From this point it is about a 4-mile hike up a Jeep trail behind a locked U.S. Forest Service gate to the deposit outcrop. The deposit outcrops near the border of, and lies entirely within the Cabinet Wilderness Area. Because any future mining of the deposit would take place underground and the Company has access to the deposit from outside the Cabinet Wilderness Area, (our patented mining claims and certain other mineral rights predate the wilderness area designation), we do not believe that any future mining or associated surface activity would impact the wilderness area.
On May 31, 2006, we acquired Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System (MPDES) water discharge permit for the Montanore Project and title to properties providing access to the portal of the Libby adit. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 2,000 feet short of the deposit. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant, equipment, subsurface improvements or equipment other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit. The necessary permit revisions were received in November 2006 to undertake a planned $40 million underground evaluation drilling program over the next two years. Also in the fourth quarter 2006, we purchased a site generator and erected a warehouse building at the Libby adit site, along with an office and employee change facility. We established a $1.124 million stand-by letter of credit in early January 2007 to satisfy reclamation bonding requirements related to our planned exploration at the Libby adit. During 2007, we added six additional staff, purchased equipment, and completed the design,
procurement, erection and start-up of a water treatment plant to support our planned underground exploration activities. Power for the planned evaluation drilling program will be provided by three on-site Caterpillar 225 KW generators. The Company owns water rights associated with the Montanore property that it believes will be sufficient for possible mining activities.
Non-Reserves-Mineralized Material; Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources
Non-Reserves Reported in the United States. The estimate of mineralized material set forth below was prepared by Mine Development Associates, referred to as MDA. The estimate was prepared in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
Mineralized Material Estimate in accordance with U.S. SEC Industry Guide 7
Non-Reserves Reported in Canada. In accordance with Canada's National Instrument 43-101, the estimate of resources at Montanore as set forth below was prepared by MDA. Steve Ristorcelli, R.P. Geo., C.P.G., and David C. Fitch, C.P.G., acting on behalf of MDA, are the qualified persons under Canada's National Instrument 43-101 for this resource estimate.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources
This section uses the terms "measured mineral resources" and "indicated mineral resources." We advise U.S. investors that while these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. U.S. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources
This section uses the term "inferred mineral resources." We advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of the inferred mineral resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable.
Resource Estimate as presented in accordance with Canada's National Instrument 43-101
Geology
The Montanore Project contains a strata-bound silver-copper deposit occurring in the Revett Formation, which is part of an extensive series of Precambrian-aged metasedimentary rocks belonging
to the Belt Supergroup. The Revett Formation has been subdivided into three members (upper, middle and lower) based on the contained amounts of quartzite, silty quartzite and siltite. The lower Revett, which hosts the mineralized horizons, is composed primarily of quartzite with lesser interbeds of siltite and silty quartzite.
The silver-copper mineralization at Montanore is strata-bound in the upper portions of the lower Revett Formation. Copper and silver values are carried predominately in the minerals bornite, chalcocite, chalcopyrite and native silver in variable proportions and concentrations. Sulfide content of the mineralized rock rarely exceeds 3% to 4% and is commonly 1% to 2%.
The mineralized zone crops out at the surface and expends down dip at least 12,000 ft to the north-northwest. The mineralization is open ended in the down dip direction. Mineralization occurs in at least two sub-parallel horizons separated by a silver- and copper-deficient zone containing low-grade lead in the form of galena. The two horizons are identified as the B1 for the upper zone and the B for the lower and more extensive zone. Both zones dip to the northwest between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, with an average of just over 15 degrees. The width of the main (B) horizon, in plan view, is defined by a fault on one side and a fold axis on the other, varies from 804 feet to 3,540 feet. The property boundaries, however, limit the controlled portion of the deposit to a maximum of 2,000 feet. The average thickness for each of the two horizons is 35 feet, depending upon cutoff.
History
In 2002, Noranda notified us that it was abandoning its rights to the project. Under the terms of its claim lease agreement with Newhi, Inc., Noranda was required to quitclaim to us any claims owned by Noranda that overlapped the original Heidelberg claims. As the newly patented apex claims were overlapping, Noranda deeded these claims to Newhi in August 2002. In December 2002, Noranda transferred to us approximately 63,000 feet of drill core and all geologic, environmental, and engineering data generated during its 14 year management of the project. The mineral rights we acquired are subject to a $0.20 per ton royalty, and a 5% net profits royalty which would commence after the operator has recovered all of its exploration and development costs. On October 18, 2007, the Company agreed to purchase the net profits royalty from Montana Reserves Company for $500,000 and the dismissal with prejudice of all claims made by MRC against the Company.
The Company resubmitted its plan of operation and hard rock mine operating permit application for the Montanore project to the U.S. Forest Service and Montana Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) at the end of December 2004. The initial draft EIS is currently being routed to the agencies for comments. See "-Permitting and Environmental."
We are conducting an extensive optimization review and feasibility study of the Montanore Project in order to update the potential mine plan and to determine the optimal rates of production. We have spent an estimated $8.8 million on the Montanore property since acquiring it, primarily on the re-permitting process, a pre-feasibility study, exploration and an additional $139,000 per year in property holding costs. We estimate expenditures of at least $17.7 million in 2008 in connection with the continued permitting, engineering, exploration and preparation for and commencement of the underground evaluation drilling program.
Engineering
McIntosh Engineering and Hatch Ltd. completed the Cost Update Study and generated a draft report for the project in May 2006. This report included engineering optimization, engineering review, cost updates, mine planning, and other aspects of the project. The report also provides additional optimization opportunities that should be evaluated as part of the on-going internal engineering work currently underway.
As part of the mine planning effort, we assembled all of the geologic information developed by Noranda and U.S. Borax for the project and incorporated the information into the Vulcan mine modeling package. This 3-dimensional geologic model is a critical first step in further evaluating mine planning activities and projection of ore zones. This information was also used to develop the underground drilling targets for the evaluation drilling program, described below.
Advanced Exploration and Delineation Drilling Program
In 2006, we acquired the property providing access to the 14,000 foot Libby adit. With additional development, the Libby adit will provide access to the Montanore deposit. We also acquired two permits related to the Libby adit that, with minor revisions, allow us to reopen, dewater and rehabilitate the adit.
In 2007, as part of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program at Montanore, we completed the construction on and startup of a water treatment facility. We plan to dewater and rehabilitate the Libby adit in early 2008 and then advance the adit approximately 3,000 feet towards the middle of the deposit. An additional 10,000 feet of development drifting will be necessary to provide drill access. Once the drifting is underway, we expect to undertake delineation diamond core drilling of approximately 50 holes totaling approximately 45,000 feet. The objectives of our underground evaluation program are to:
•expand the known higher grade intercepts of the Montanore deposit;
•develop additional information about the deposit;
•further assess and define the mineralized zone; and
•provide additional geotechnical, hydrological and other data.
Stage 1-Dewatering and Adit Rehabilitation
With the exception of the first 600 feet, the length of the Libby adit contains water. During the first stage of the evaluation drilling program, we plan to dewater the adit, and treat the discharged water using ultra-filtration and possibly chemical pre-treatment so that discharged water, both during the dewatering process as well as during development of the adit and drilling program, meets Montana's water quality standards. We completed the pilot scale tests of the water treatment plant in November 2007. We have been delayed starting the dewatering pending approval by the Forest Service of an environmental assessment (EA) for road use.
As dewatering begins, we plan to rehabilitate the adit, which we anticipate to involve, among other activities, scaling the walls, installing new roof bolts and extending electricity, ventilation and dewatering infrastructure into the adit. We estimate that Stage 1 activities will cost approximately $7.3 million.
Stage 2-Advancement of Adit, Drifting and Establishment of Drill Stations
Once rehabilitation is complete, expected by the second quarter of 2008, we plan to advance the adit approximately 3,000 feet towards the middle of the deposit. Following the advancement of the adit, we expect to commence 10,000 feet of development drifting, which will be necessary to provide drill access. Once drifting is underway we will also begin to establish drill stations. The process of drifting and the establishment of drill stations will continue throughout the remainder of the program. We expect that Stage 2 will cost approximately $7.5 million.
Stage 3-Phase I Delineation Drilling
In Stage 3 of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, we expect to commence approximately 20,000 feet of delineation diamond core drilling. We expect to spend approximately $0.5 million on Phase I delineation drilling. We also expect to spend approximately $12.7 million during Stages 1, 2 and 3 on site operating and capital costs, optimization studies and general corporate support.
Stage 4-Phase II Drilling and Bankable Feasibility Study
During this stage we anticipate completing an additional 25,000 feet of diamond core drilling, undertaking additional metallurgical and geotechnical testing and analysis, and if the results of our exploration are successful, preparing for and completing a bankable feasibility study at an estimated cost, with site operating and capital costs, of approximately $10.0 million.
Permitting and Environmental
Permitting of the Advanced Exploration and Delineation Drilling Program
In 2006, we acquired the property providing access to the portal of the Libby adit and two permits: Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System (MPDES) water discharge permit for the Montanore Project. With minor revisions completed in 2006, these permits allow us to proceed with our planned advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, including adit rehabilitation, dewatering and extension, drifting and establishment of drill stations, and drilling activities. In mid-2007, we were advised by the U.S. Forest Service that we would be required to submit an EA covering our proposed road use during the program. The EA was submitted in August 2007 and approval has been delayed to March 2008. Pending such approval, we have been issued a temporary use permit to provide site access.
Permitting of the Montanore Project
In order to advance the Montanore Project past the exploration stage, we must obtain project approval from the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the State of Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) and final permits. The USFS and the State of Montana are undertaking a joint review of the Montanore Project and related permits, a process that typically takes several years. In early January 2008, we received a clarification letter from the Montana DEQ confirming that Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 issued in 1993 was transferred with the acquisition of Noranda Mineral Corporation in May 2006 to the Company. The DEQ asked that the Company withdraw its plan of operations and permit application (submitted in 2004) and instead submit proposal amendments and update the existing permit. The revised plan will be submitted in March 2008.
To initiate the joint review process, in 2004 we submitted a proposed plan of operations to the USFS and a hard rock mining program application to the State of Montana, which included baseline environmental data, certain technical documents and other pertinent information about the Montanore Project. We have also submitted applications and technical supporting data for an air quality permit, a wetland 404 permit that would establish the allowable level of discharge of dredged or fill material into wetlands and non-wetland waters, an MPDES water discharge permit that would establish the allowable levels of mine and rain water discharge that might occur during any development of and operations at the Montanore Project, a power transmission line permit for the power line that would connect the Project to the power grid; and revisions to Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that would permit mining operations on federal land, along with a permit to cover mining operations on private land. We have benefited from the work completed by previous holders of the Montanore Project, who obtained final Project permits in 1993. Rather than being required to develop all of the initial data, we were able to update the environmental baseline and other environmental and technical data developed by the prior
holders. This allowed us to submit applications and technical information approximately 12 months earlier than otherwise would have been the case. Since our applications were initially submitted, we have responded to agency comments and submitted supplemental technical information and applications.
A central element of the federal and state project review is the completion of a thorough environmental review process, which will be documented in a joint Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). As an integral part of drafting the EIS, the USFS is required under the Endangered Species Act to complete a biological assessment and initiate a consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for the purpose of issuing a biological opinion addressing the impact of the project on threatened and endangered species, including grizzly bear, lynx and bull trout. The agencies completed preparation of the preliminary draft EIS in the fourth quarter of 2007, which is currently being reviewed internally by the agencies. We continue to address technical questions and comments generated by the USFS and the State during the EIS review process.
Once the agencies have completed their review, the final draft EIS and the draft permits are provided to the public for review and comment. The agencies may consider public comments in preparing the final EIS and final permits. If the public review process is successfully completed, the agencies would proceed to determine the form of the final EIS and permits and would issue a joint Record of Decision setting forth their decisions on our proposed plan of operations and hard rock mining program. Following issuance of the Record of Decision, and resolution of any appeals or legal challenges to the Record of Decision, we would receive the required permits and finalize the Montanore Project Description based on the results of the completed agency review.
Advance and Iroquois Properties
The Company owns the Advance and Iroquois zinc-lead exploration properties located in northeastern Washington State, approximately six miles south of the Canadian border. The properties are situated five miles apart along a belt of Cambrian carbonate sediments that have acted as host rocks for several former mines. Both properties are easily accessible on secondary graveled roads by two wheel drive vehicles. A large zinc smelter and refinery is located at Trail, British Columbia, Canada, approximately 17 miles away, over excellent roads.
The Company was originally formed in 1947 to explore the Advance and Iroquois properties. Since that time, it has leased its holdings to major companies including Rare Metals, Inc. (El Paso Natural Gas) (1959-65), The Bunker Hill Company (1962-65), Cominco American, Inc. (1966-67 and 1974-75), Brinco, Ltd. (RTZ Group) (1977-78), and Equinox Resources Ltd. (1989-91). Total expenditures on the properties to date are estimated to be at least $1,500,000.
The Advance and Iroquois properties are located along the Deep Lake Trend, a northeast-striking belt of Cambrian carbonate rocks collectively designated as the Metaline Limestone. Rocks of the Deep Lake Trend have been strongly folded and faulted by numerous high-angle as well as thrust faults. As a result the Metaline Limestone has a complex outcrop pattern, with steeply overturned bedding.
Zones of brecciation are found throughout the Metaline Limestone and are often, but not always, the location of zinc and lead sulfide mineralization. These features are predominantly stratabound and have gradational, often irregular borders. Individual breccia bodies are crudely lensoid in cross section and have third dimensions that attain considerable length. The zones often occur in an enechelon, and sometimes interconnected, pattern. A variety of evidence suggests that the breccia bodies are solution collapse features controlled by favorable stratigraphy or lithologic facies.
Mineralization consists of irregular bands, lenses, and fine disseminations of sphalerite and galena accompanied by varying amounts of pyrite. The mineralization is considered to have been localized by permeable zones within and peripheral to breccia bodies created by solution collapse. The sulfide minerals are found in white dolomite that makes up the breccia matrix and fills other voids, and also as selective replacements of the host carbonate rocks. Individual deposits have irregular gradational borders and are crudely lensoidal to oval in outline. Their elongated third dimension parallels the regional strike of the host rocks, and often plunge at low angles. Cross sectional widths up to 80 feet and heights of as much as 150 feet have been noted in the more prominent zones. Lengths of mineralization vary up to 650 feet. The deposits have a tendency to occur together in an enechelon pattern over a stratigraphic interval of as much as 300 feet. Such groupings of deposits may be more or less interconnected and have composite lengths of as much as 5,000 feet. Metal values generally decrease outward thus necessitating a border to be established by economic consideration. Although individual sample values within a deposit may be as high as 20% zinc, average values for a deposit will usually range up to 7% zinc and 1% lead depending upon the "assay border" selected.
The Advance property consists of 720 acres of patented mining claims located approximately five miles east of the town of Northport. The property is reached from Northport, the nearest town, by taking the paved Deep Lake road south for four miles to the graveled Black Canyon road and thence north for three miles. The Metaline Formation is the principal rock unit to crop out on the Advance property. Previous exploration consisting of soil sampling, drilling, trenching, and tunneling has shown that several zones of low-grade, disseminated zinc mineralization occur on the property. The Advance property is without known reserves, is considered to be of an exploratory nature, and was written down to a zero carrying balance at December 31, 2007 following an internal review which concluded that the property is not commercially viable at present.
The Iroquois property consists of 62 acres of patented mining claims and surface rights, and 15 unpatented mining claims containing about 300 acres. The property is reached from Northport, the
nearest town, by taking the paved Deep Lake road south and east for 19 miles to the graveled Iroquois Mine Road, and thence northeast for three miles. The unpatented mining claims are held subject to a $125 per claim annual payment to the U.S. Federal government. More than 25,000 feet of drilling and approximately 2,600 feet of tunneling have shown low-grade mineralization to occur in multiple zones, extending for the entire 5,000 foot length of the property. Most of the exploration has been concentrated in one area where a mineralized zone of disseminated zinc with associated lead values has been outlined over approximately 900 feet in length and within 300 feet of the surface. The Iroquois property is without known reserves, is considered to be of an exploratory nature and has been written down to a zero carrying balance at December 31, 2007 following an internal review which determined that at this time there was no commercial value in the property.
Oil Interests
We receive income from a 10.16% working interest in four oil wells on a lease in Sumner County, Kansas. We do not engage in oil and gas exploration or production activities.
ITEM 3.