ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The significant properties in which the Company has an interest are described below.
Montanore Property
The Montanore Project is located in Sanders and Lincoln Counties in northwestern Montana and consists of two patented mining claims and approximately 825 unpatented mining claims. The mining claims are owned by the Company and are held subject to a $140 per claim annual payment to the federal government.
The Company's ownership of the Montanore deposit stems primarily from its ownership of two patented mining claims, identified as HR 133 and HR 134, which cover the surface outcrop or "apex" of the gently dipping mineralized beds. According to U.S. mining law, the holders of claims covering the apex of a dipping, tabular deposit own the minerals to depth, even if the deposit passes from beneath the apex claim. For the Company's claims at Montanore, these "extralateral rights" have been confirmed by the U.S. Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior and upheld in U.S. District Court. In addition to the patented apex claims, the Company owns unpatented claims located along the fault which bounds the southwestern margin of the deposit and extends outside of the western border of the Cabinet Wilderness Area.
The Company's property holdings for operational access and infrastructure support for the Montanore Project are located to the east of the deposit, south of the town of Libby, and are accessed from Libby by about 16 miles of secondary road up Libby Creek. The apex of the deposit can be reached from Noxon, the nearest town, by taking State Highway 200 about 2 miles to the east and then north about 5 miles on a secondary graveled road to the junction of the west and east forks of Rock Creek. From this point it is about a 4-mile hike up a Jeep trail behind a locked USFS gate to the deposit outcrop. The deposit outcrops near the border of, and lies entirely within, the Cabinet Wilderness Area. Because any future mining of the deposit would take place underground and the Company has access to the deposit from outside the Cabinet Wilderness Area (our patented mining claims and certain other mineral rights predate the wilderness area designation), we do not believe that any future mining or associated surface activity would have a material impact on the wilderness area.
On May 31, 2006, we acquired Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System ("MPDES") water discharge permit for the Montanore Project and title to properties providing access to the portal of the Libby adit. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 2,000 feet short of the deposit. The Libby adit, when extended, will provide access to the Montanore deposit for our planned underground exploration and delineation drilling program. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant, equipment, subsurface improvements or equipment other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit.
Non-Reserves-Mineralized Material
Non-Reserves Reported in the United States. The estimate of mineralized material set forth below was prepared by Mine Development Associates, or MDA. The estimate was prepared in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
Mineralized Material Estimate in accordance with U.S. SEC Industry Guide 7
"Mineralized material" as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, although permissible under SEC's Industry Guide 7, does not indicate "reserves" by SEC standards. We cannot be certain that any part of the mineralized material at Montanore will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant "reserves." Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
Geology
The Montanore Project contains a strata-bound silver-copper deposit occurring in the Revett Formation, which is part of an extensive series of Precambrian-aged metasedimentary rocks belonging to the Belt Supergroup. The Revett Formation has been subdivided into three members (upper, middle and lower) based on the contained amounts of quartzite, silty quartzite and siltite. The lower Revett, which hosts the mineralized horizons, is composed primarily of quartzite with lesser interbeds of siltite and silty quartzite.
The silver-copper mineralization at Montanore is strata-bound in the upper portions of the lower Revett Formation. Copper and silver values are carried predominately in the minerals bornite, chalcocite, chalcopyrite and native silver in variable proportions and concentrations. Sulfide content of the mineralized rock rarely exceeds 3% to 4% and is commonly 1% to 2%.
The mineralized zone crops out at the surface and expends down dip at least 12,000 ft to the north-northwest. The mineralization is open ended in the down dip direction. Mineralization occurs in at least two sub-parallel horizons separated by a silver- and copper-deficient zone containing low-grade lead in the form of galena. The two horizons are identified as the B1 for the upper zone and the B for the lower and more extensive zone. Both zones dip to the northwest between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, with an average of just over 15 degrees. The width of the main (B) horizon, in plan view, is defined by a fault on one side and a fold axis on the other, varies from 804 feet to 3,540 feet. The property boundaries, however, limit the controlled portion of the deposit to a maximum of 2,000 feet. The average thickness for each of the two horizons is 35 feet, depending upon cutoff.
History and Development
The Montanore Project was owned by Noranda Minerals Corporation ("Noranda") between 1988 and 2002. During that time, the project received a record of decision approving a plan of operations from the USFS and the State of Montana, as well as all other permits required for the project, allowing Noranda to proceed with full operations, but the project was never put into operation. From 1988 to 2002, we held royalty rights to a portion of the deposit. In 2002, Noranda announced that it was abandoning the project, and subsequently transferred to us by quitclaim deed the patented and unpatented mining claims that control the mineral rights, and all drill core and intellectual property, including geologic, environmental and engineering studies, relating to the Montanore Project.
In May 2006, we acquired two Noranda subsidiaries that held title to the Montanore property, providing access to the 14,000 foot Libby adit which, when extended, will provide access to the Montanore deposit. Through this acquisition, we also received the Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the MPDES water discharge permit for the Montanore Project. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 3,000 feet short of the deposit. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant,
equipment, subsurface improvements or equipment other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, we reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit. The necessary permit revisions were received in November 2006 to undertake an underground evaluation drilling program. We own water rights associated with the Montanore property that we believe will be sufficient for proposed mining activities.
In the fourth quarter of 2006, we purchased a site generator and erected a warehouse building at the Libby adit site, along with an office and employee change facility. Power for the evaluation drilling program will be provided by three on-site Cummins 800 KW generators. We established a $1.124 million stand-by letter of credit in January 2007 to satisfy reclamation bonding requirements related to our planned exploration at the Libby adit.
In 2007, we completed the construction of site infrastructure to support our planned underground evaluation program at the Montanore Project. This included the design, engineering and construction of a $1.5 million water treatment plant to process all water pumped out of the adit. The utility design was completed and electrical supplies, ventilation material, pumping equipment, and ground control roof bolts and supplies have been delivered to the site. Construction of a dry storage structure for inventory was completed in the fall of 2007 and an initial fleet of surface equipment and underground equipment was purchased at a cost in excess of $6 million and delivered to the Libby adit site in the third and fourth quarters of 2007.
In 2008, we continued the testing and installation of the adit dewatering system in preparation for the planned 3,000 foot extension and initiation of the drilling program. Other preparations for the commencement of drifting and delineation drilling (consisting of two declining drifts approximately 15 × 15 in section and 80 feet long each) included the retention of Small Mine Development, LLC ("SMD") to manage the adit advancement and the drilling program, engineering for a new nitrate circuit addition to the water treatment facility and installation of the initial sumps and pumping system. Two sumps were placed into service during the third quarter of 2008. These sumps are part of the overall dewatering system designed to clarify water from the adit before sending it to the water treatment plant on the surface. Construction of the sumps allowed us to test most of the mining equipment that will be used during the adit advancement and future development activities. A jumbo drill, roof bolter, LHDs, and haul trucks were all used to construct the sumps. Other support equipment, such as explosives loading truck and scissor lift truck, saw limited use.
Engineering and geology work continued during 2008. In 2008, we added six additional staff, purchased additional equipment and continued to install and test the underground water pumping stations and sumps, and in early 2009 we proceeded with dewatering. SMD completed engineering for a new nitrate removal addition to the water treatment facility and installation of the initial sumps and pumping system. Two additional sumps and a decanting system were placed into service at the 7,200 foot level during the second quarter of 2009. These sumps are part of the overall dewatering system designed to clarify water from the adit before sending it to the water treatment plant on the surface.
On April 30, 2009, SMD was demobilized, and the decline is now in a standby mode, until the environmental review process is complete. Similarly, construction of the nitrate circuit is scheduled to start when timing of the receipt of permits is more certain, and to be completed prior to beginning the extension of the final section of the adit to reach the ore body and install drill stations. The current schedule is to begin construction of the concrete chambers based on timing of receipt of the record of decision following completion of a final EIS. Current operations at the Libby adit include continued pumping at the site water treatment system.
Advanced Exploration and Delineation Drilling Program
The objectives of our underground evaluation drilling program are to:
•expand the known higher grade intercepts of the Montanore deposit;
•develop additional information about the deposit;
•further assess and define the mineralized zone; and
•provide additional geotechnical, hydrological and other data.
The stages of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, and activities undertaken to date in each stage, are set out below:
Stage 1-Dewatering and Adit Rehabilitation
With the exception of the first 600 feet, the length of the Libby adit contains water. During this stage of the evaluation drilling program, we have developed a plan to dewater the adit and to treat the discharged water using ultra-filtration and possibly chemical pre-treatment so that discharged water, both during the dewatering process as well as during development of the adit and drilling program, meets state and federal water quality standards. In 2007, we completed the design, procurement, engineering construction, start-up and pilot scale tests of the $1.3 million water treatment plant. In 2008, we continued to install and test the underground water pumping stations and sumps, and in early 2009 we proceeded with dewatering. We have retained an independent contractor, SMD, to manage the adit advancement and the drilling program. It has completed engineering for a new nitrate removal addition to the water treatment facility and installation of the initial sumps and pumping system, consisting of two declining drifts each approximately 80 feet long and 15 × 15 inches. Two sumps and a decanting system were placed into service at the 7,200 foot level of the adit during the third quarter of 2008. These sumps are part of the overall dewatering system designed to clarify water from the adit before sending it to the water treatment plant on the surface. Construction of the nitrate system is scheduled to start when timing of the receipt of permits is more certain, and to be completed prior to beginning the extension of the adit to reach the ore body. Current operations on the Libby adit include continued operations on the Montanore site water treatment system and dewatering of the decline.
Concurrent with dewatering, we started rehabilitating the adit, which involves, among other activities, scaling the walls, installing new roof bolts and extending electricity, ventilation and dewatering infrastructure into the adit. Power for the planned evaluation drilling program will be provided by three on-site Cummins 800 KW generators. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we purchased a site generator and erected a warehouse building at the Libby adit site, along with an office and employee change facility. In 2007, an initial order of electrical supplies, ventilation material, pumping equipment, and ground control roof bolts and supplies was delivered to the site. Construction of a dry storage structure for inventory was completed in the fall of 2007. The initial fleet of surface equipment and underground equipment was purchased at a cost in excess of $6 million and delivered in the third and fourth quarters of 2007. During 2008, we added six additional staff and purchased additional equipment. Construction of the sumps has allowed us to test most of the mining equipment that will be used during the adit advancement and future exploration activities. To date, infrastructure placed in the decline includes a refuge chamber, mine power center and temporary pump station, along with the previously installed sumps and pumping system at the 700 ft. location. On April 30, 2009, SMD was demobilized, and the decline is now in a standby mode, until the environmental review process is complete. We are prohibited from doing further work in the adit until the USFS approves an operating plan for Montanore. Total costs for Stage 1 activities are approximately $7.3 million, of which approximately $5.8 million had been spent by December 31, 2011.
Stage 2-Advancement of Adit, Drifting and Establishment of Drill Stations
Once the permitting process is complete and the adit rehabilitation completed, we plan to advance the adit approximately 3,000 feet towards the middle of the deposit. Following the advancement of the adit, we expect to commence 10,000 feet of development drifting, which will be necessary to provide drill access. Once drifting is underway we would also begin to establish drill stations. The process of drifting and the establishment of drill stations would continue throughout the remainder of the program. We estimate that Stage 2 would cost approximately $5.0 million.
Stage 3-Phase I Delineation Drilling
In Stage 3 of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, we expect to commence approximately 25,000 feet of delineation diamond core drilling of approximately 40 holes. We expect to spend approximately $0.5 million on Phase I delineation drilling. We also expect to spend approximately $12.7 million (in addition to amounts set forth above) during Stages 1, 2 and 3 on site operating and capital costs, optimization studies and general corporate support.
Stage 4-Phase II Drilling and Bankable Feasibility Study
During this stage, we anticipate completing an additional 25,000 feet of diamond core drilling, undertaking additional metallurgical and geotechnical testing and analysis, and if the results of our exploration are successful, preparing for and completing a bankable feasibility study at an estimated cost, with site operating and capital costs, of approximately $10.0 million. A feasibility study and report would provide the basis for financing the development of the project, currently estimated to require approximately $550 million in external financing.
We are currently conducting trade off studies, reviewing the geology, and performing initial engineering reviews to improve our estimates of the projected costs and schedule for the final three stages of the program. We expect that, following completion of permitting, Stages 2, 3 and 4 would take approximately 18 months.
Permitting and Environmental
Approval by regulatory agencies will be required before the Montanore Project can proceed with exploration and project development. The agencies that are involved with the major permits include the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS"), Montana Department of Environmental Quality ("MDEQ"), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ("USACE"), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ("USFWS"). There are other permits required, such as water rights, which will involve other agencies.
In 2004, the USFS and the MDEQ began a joint review of the Montanore Project. As part of this process, the USFS and MDEQ completed a draft environmental impact statement ("DEIS") in March 2009, evaluated the environmental impacts of the project, circulated the DEIS to the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and to the public for comment. Based on comments concerning the transmission lines alternatives presented in the DEIS, the USFS and MDEQ selected their preferred alternative for the transmission line location. The USFS and MDEQ required preparation of a supplemental draft environmental impact statement ("SDEIS") to address certain issues related to the Montanore Project, including wetlands mitigation, water quality analyses, and the placement and impact of the transmission line. The SDEIS was completed in September of 2011. The public was given an extended review and comment period, which was closed late in December 2011.
As part of the development of a final EIS and the determination of the agencies' preferred alternatives, the USACE must complete an analysis of potential project discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States, including wetlands. Such discharges are regulated by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act which requires a permit before dredged or fill material may be
discharged and is required for the construction of the tailings facility. The USACE determined that the 404 permit application submitted by the Company for the tailings impoundment site, including a related off-site wetlands mitigation measure, was complete and advanced the permitting review process for this permit. The USACE has determined that our proposed tailings site is the Least Environmentally Damaging Practicable Alternative, which is the first step in this 404 permit approval process. As part of their effort, they published a public notice of the intent to review and process the Company's permit application in December 2011. The public comment period was completed February 2012. The Company is working closely with the USACE to more closely review the jurisdictional aspect of small drainages within the proposed tailings impoundment area as they relate to waters of the United States. This determination is required for completion of this permitting process.
The agencies continue to incorporate analyses and new technical data generated by the environmental impact statement contractor and the Company. With the completion of the SDEIS, the agencies will now combine comments generated by the public and EPA in response to the DEIS and the SDEIS and formulate a Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS). With the 404 permitting process as well as the USFS and MDEQ on-going review, work continues to refine mitigation and information to support the development of the FEIS.
The Company's consultants completed extensive field work in 2011 to support aquatic habitat characteristic of the impoundment area. This information is important to establishing wetland mitigation and the preparation of the FEIS. This field work also provides information to support agency responses to comments.
As part of our permitting process, the USFS must undertake certain biological assessments and submit draft reports of these assessments to the USFWS for consideration in connection with the USFWS's biological opinions addressing the impact of the project on threatened and endangered species, including grizzly bear and bull trout. The issuance of the biological opinions by the FWS is required prior to the completion of a record of decision. The USFS completed a Biological Assessment in July 2011 and submitted it to the USFWS as part of the consultation process. For various reasons, the USFWS has not responded to the proposed Biological Assessment. We are working with the USFS and USFWS to resolve the staffing issue so the Biological Assessment can proceed.
Issuance of a record of decision ("ROD") by the USFS approving the proposed Mine Plan of Operations is the final step of the federal approval process and can occur only after the final USFWS biological opinion, the 404 dredge and fill discharge permit, and the FEIS have been issued. Following the ROD, the other agencies would be expected to issue their permits relating to mine development activities, including amendments to the hard rock mining permit and the MPDES permit, over a 6 month period. Once the USFS issues a ROD, we would be authorized to commence our planned advanced exploration and delineation drilling program. No further authorization would be required by the State of Montana for the exploration program, which received State approvals in 2006.
Based on the estimated timing of the SDEIS and issuance of the biological opinions, we believe that the agencies could issue a record of decision before the end of 2012. While we are providing information to the various state and federal agencies when requested and are actively engaged in working with such agencies, most of the timing issues surrounding the issuance of the EIS, biological opinions and environmental permits are beyond our control. Accordingly, no assurance can be given regarding the timing of the issuance of permits and approvals.
Engineering
In May 2006, McIntosh Engineering and Hatch Ltd. completed a Cost Update Study and generated a draft report for the Montanore Project. This report included engineering optimization, engineering review, cost updates, mine planning, and other aspects of the project. The report also
provided additional optimization opportunities that will be evaluated as part of the on-going internal engineering work currently underway.
As part of the mine planning effort, we assembled all of the geologic information developed by Noranda and another previous owner for the project and incorporated the information into the Vulcan mine modeling package. This 3-dimensional geologic model is a critical first step in further evaluating mine planning activities and projection of ore zones. This information was also used to develop the underground drilling targets for the evaluation drilling program.
Engineering refinement and geology work continues at the Montanore site using existing information. Geology confirmation mapping was begun with the advance of the rehabilitation down the decline. Currently, hydrological studies are being carried out for the creation of a hydrological model for the rock formations being crossed by the decline. Ongoing optimization and trade-off studies will help prepare assumptions that will be used in development of a feasibility study on the Montanore Project.
Preliminary Economic Assessment
On December 22, 2010, we announced the completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") for the Montanore Project. The PEA was prepared to provide guidance on the potential viability of the Montanore Project and the basis for the continuation of exploration activities. Because of the uncertainties associated with any mineral deposit that, like the Montanore Project, does not have reserves, the PEA should not be relied on to value the Montanore Project, nor should it be considered to be a feasibility or pre-feasibility study.
The PEA did not update the mineral resource analysis of the Montanore deposit completed in October 2005 by Mine Development Associates ("MDA Report"). Mineralized material, as set forth in the MDA Report, is 81.5 million short tons of material grading 2.04 oz/short ton silver and 0.75% copper with a cutoff grade of 1.0 oz /short ton silver.
The PEA assumed pricing of the estimated Montanore resources based on a three year trailing average at August 16, 2010 (i.e. $3.10 per lb. for copper and $15.00 per ounce for silver) and developed cost estimates for development of the Montanore Project. Initial capital costs for the project were estimated to be $552.3 million (with a ± 35% accuracy). The PEA assumed that the project would utilize conventional grinding and flotation processing techniques at a processing rate of 12,500 short tons per day.
The PEA concludes that the Montanore Project "demonstrates favorable economic potential" which justifies "commencement of a resource evaluation program and subsequent pre-feasibility study."
On February 3, 2011, the PEA was filed in Canada in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101-Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects. The technical report summarizing the results of the PEA was prepared by or under the supervision of Mr. Chris Kaye and Mr. Geoffrey Challiner of Mine and Quarry Engineering Services, Inc. of San Mateo, California, each of whom is an independent "Qualified Person," as such term is defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. The PEA filed in Canada is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Description of Royalties on our Patented Mining Claims
The HR 133 and HR 134 patented mining claims, which cover the Montanore deposit, are burdened by a production payment obligation of twenty cents ($.20) per ton of ore extracted and milled therefrom, pursuant to (i) that Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 6, 1988, between Atlantic Goldfields Inc. and Montana Reserves Company, and (ii) that Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 6, 1988, between Jascan Resources Inc. and Montana Reserves Company, a subsidiary of Noranda. The production payment is calculated based upon "the
total number of measured, indicated and inferred reserves, as defined by the American Association of Professional Geologists, on the Premises, as calculated and described in the independent feasibility study prepared for project financing purposes, and payable after the end of each six month period following Commencement of Commercial Production." "Commencement of Commercial Production" is defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreements as "the last day of the first period of thirty (30) consecutive days during which Commercial Production from the Property has occurred." "Commercial Production" is defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreements as "the production of concentrate from the Property on a regular basis, from the treatment of ore at not less than sixty percent (60%) of the concentrator's rated capacity, or rated capacity of the concentrator specified by the independent feasibility study, but excluding ore treated or concentrate produced for testing purposes." That production payment obligation terminates at such time as the "total number of reserves from the (properties), measured and calculated as specified above, has been extracted and milled."
Potential Acquisitions
We are continually seeking potential acquisitions, and have engaged from time to time in discussions with companies conducting mining operations or owners of mining properties or projects. The acquisition targets vary in many respects, but most relate to the mining of precious metals. See "Risk Factors-Acquisitions and business integration issues will expose us to risks" above.
Other Properties
We also own certain patented and unpatented mining claims on zinc properties in northern Washington State, referred to as the Iroquois and Advance properties. We have not conducted mining activities on these properties since the 1960s. In December 2007, we completed an impairment analysis of the carrying values of the Iroquois and Advance properties to assess their immediate development potential. In connection with that evaluation, we wrote off the capitalized costs associated with the properties in the amount of $226,000 which had been recorded in connection with mining activity that occurred in the 1950s. We continue to hold the real property, mining claims, and patented claims underlying the Iroquois and Advance properties; however, such property, mining claims, and patented claims do not have any book value in our consolidated financial statements. We also generate minor income from a working interest royalty, acquired more than 40 years ago, in several producing oil wells located in Kansas.
In addition, we have entered into a binding letter of intent and are completing agreements pursuant to which we could acquire 75% of the La Estrella silver and gold exploration property in Peru, approximately 230 kilometers southeast of Lima. La Estrella is an advanced exploration stage project which contains an epithermal, volcanic-hosted gold-silver system with associated base-metal mineralization. The terms of the agreement allow the Company through its subsidiary, Minera Montanore Peru, SAC, to earn 75% of the La Estrella property by expending $5.0 million over four years on exploration activities and making annual cash payments to Estrella of $100,000 on the first anniversary of execution of the definitive agreements and $200,000 on each of the following anniversaries of such execution until the earn-in has been completed.
ITEM 3.