ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The significant properties in which the Company has an interest are described below.
Montanore Property
The Montanore Project is located in Sanders and Lincoln Counties in northwestern Montana and consists of ten patented mining claims and 825 unpatented mining claims owned by the Company. The unpatented mining claims are held subject to a $140 per claim annual maintenance fee paid to the federal government.
The Company's ownership of the Montanore deposit stems primarily from its ownership of two patented mining claims, identified as HR 133 and HR 134, which cover the surface outcrop or "apex" of the gently dipping mineralized beds. According to U.S. mining law, the holders of claims covering the apex of a dipping, tabular deposit own the minerals to depth, even if the deposit passes from beneath the apex claim. For the Company's claims at Montanore, these "extralateral rights" have been confirmed by the U.S. Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior and upheld in U.S. District Court. In addition to the patented apex claims, the Company owns unpatented claims located along the fault which bounds the southwestern margin of the deposit and extends outside of the western border of the Cabinet Wilderness Area.
The Company's property holdings for operational access and infrastructure support for the Montanore Project are located to the east of the deposit, south of the town of Libby, and are accessed from Libby by about 16 miles of secondary road up Libby Creek. The apex of the deposit can be reached from Noxon, the nearest town, by taking State Highway 200 about 2 miles to the east and then north about 5 miles on a secondary graveled road to the junction of the west and east forks of Rock Creek. From this point it is about a 4-mile hike up a Jeep trail behind a locked USFS gate to the deposit outcrop. The deposit outcrops near the border of, and other than the outcrop that occurs on the patented claims HR 133 and HR 134, lies entirely within the Cabinet Wilderness Area. Because any future mining of the deposit would take place underground and the Company has access to the deposit from outside the Cabinet Wilderness Area (our patented mining claims and certain other mineral rights predate the wilderness area designation), we do not believe that any future mining or associated surface activity would have a material impact on the wilderness area.
On May 31, 2006, the Company acquired the State Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System ("MPDES") water discharge permit for the Montanore Project as well as title to properties providing access to the portal of the Libby adit. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 3,000 feet short of the deposit. The Libby adit, when extended, will provide access to the Montanore deposit for a planned underground exploration and delineation drilling program. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant, equipment, subsurface improvements or equipment other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit.
Non-Reserves-Mineralized Material
Non-Reserves Reported in the United States. The estimate of mineralized material set forth below was prepared by Mine Development Associates, or MDA, of Reno, Nevada in October 2005. The estimate was prepared in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
Mineralized Material Estimate in accordance with U.S. SEC Industry Guide 7
"Mineralized material" as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, although permissible under SEC's Industry Guide 7, does not indicate "reserves" by SEC standards. We cannot be certain that any part of the mineralized material at Montanore will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant "reserves." Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
Geology
The Montanore Project contains a strata-bound silver-copper deposit occurring in the Revett Formation, which is part of an extensive series of Precambrian-aged metasedimentary rocks belonging to the Belt Supergroup. The Revett Formation has been subdivided into three members (upper, middle and lower) based on the contained amounts of quartzite, silty quartzite and siltite. The lower Revett, which hosts the mineralized horizons, is composed primarily of quartzite with lesser interbeds of siltite and silty quartzite.
The silver-copper mineralization at Montanore is strata-bound in the upper portions of the lower Revett Formation. Copper and silver values are carried predominately in the minerals bornite, chalcocite, chalcopyrite and native silver in variable proportions and concentrations. Sulfide content of the mineralized rock rarely exceeds 3% to 4% and is commonly 1% to 2%.
The mineralized zone crops out at the surface and extends down dip at least 12,000 ft to the north-northwest. The mineralization is open ended in the down dip direction. Mineralization occurs in at least two sub-parallel horizons separated by a silver- and copper-deficient zone containing low-grade lead in the form of galena. The two horizons are identified as the B1 for the upper zone and the B for the lower and more extensive zone. Both zones dip to the northwest between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, with an average of just over 15 degrees. The width of the main (B) horizon, in plan view, is defined by a fault on one side and a fold axis on the other, and varies from 804 feet to 3,540 feet. The property boundaries, however, limit the controlled portion of the deposit to a maximum of 2,000 feet. The average thickness for each of the two horizons is 35 feet, depending upon cutoff.
History and Development
The Montanore Project was owned by Noranda Minerals Corporation between 1988 and 2002. During that time, the project received a Record of Decision ("ROD") approving a plan of operations from the USFS and the State of Montana, as well as all other permits required for the project, allowing Noranda to proceed with full operations, but the project was never put into operation. From 1988 to 2002, the Company held royalty rights to a portion of the deposit. In 2002, Noranda announced that it was withdrawing from the project, and subsequently transferred to us by quitclaim deed the patented and unpatented mining claims that control the mineral rights, and all drill core and intellectual property, including geologic, environmental and engineering studies, relating to the Montanore Project.
In May 2006, we acquired two Noranda subsidiaries that held title to the Montanore property, providing access to the 14,000 foot Libby adit which, when extended, will provide access to the Montanore deposit. Through this acquisition, we also received the Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the MPDES water discharge permit for the Montanore Project. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 3,000 feet short of the deposit. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant, equipment, subsurface improvements or equipment other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, we reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit. The necessary permit revisions were received in November 2006 to undertake an underground evaluation drilling program. We own water rights associated with the Montanore property that are believed to be sufficient for proposed mining activities. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we purchased generators to provide power for the initial evaluation drilling program and erected a warehouse building and shop at the Libby adit site, along with an office and employee change facility.
In January 2007, we established a $1.124 million stand-by letter of credit to satisfy reclamation bonding requirements related to our planned exploration at the Libby adit. In 2007, we completed the construction of site infrastructure to support our planned underground evaluation program at the Montanore Project including a $1.5 million water treatment plant to process all water pumped out of
the adit and a dry storage structure for inventory. We also acquired an initial fleet of surface and underground heavy equipment.
In 2008 and 2009, we continued the testing and installation of the adit dewatering system in preparation for the planned 3,000 foot extension and initiation of the drilling program and installed sumps that allowed us to test most of the mining equipment that will be used during the adit advancement and future development activities. We dewatered the adit in 2009. Engineering and geology work also continued during 2008 and 2009.
The decline has been in a standby mode since the second quarter 2009, pending completion of the environmental review process. Operations at the Libby adit are limited to maintaining the water level at the 7,400 foot level in the adit and treating the water pumped from the adit.
Advanced Exploration and Delineation Drilling Program
The objectives of our underground evaluation drilling program are to:
•expand the known higher grade intercepts of the Montanore deposit;
•develop additional information about the deposit;
•further assess and define the mineralized zone; and
•provide additional geotechnical, hydrological and other data.
The stages of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, and activities undertaken to date in each stage, are set out below. We expect that, following completion of permitting, Stages 2, 3 and 4 would take approximately 18 months.
Stage 1-Dewatering and Adit Rehabilitation
The construction of water pumping and treatment facilities and the addition of generators to provide power for the underground exploration program are described above. In addition, we have worked to rehabilitate the adit which involves, among other things, sealing the walls, installing new roof bolts and extending power, ventilation and dewatering infrastructure in the adit. To date, infrastructure placed in the decline includes a refuge chamber, mine power center and temporary pump station, along with the previously installed sumps and pumping system at the 700 foot location. As previously noted, the adit is now on care and maintenance until the environmental review process is complete. We are prohibited from doing further work in the adit until the USFS approves an operating plan for Montanore. Total costs for Stage 1 activities are projected at approximately $7.3 million, of which approximately $6.3 million had been spent by December 31, 2012.
Stage 2-Advancement of Adit, Drifting and Establishment of Drill Stations
Once the permitting process is complete and the adit rehabilitation completed, the Company plans to advance the adit approximately 3,000 feet towards the middle of the deposit. Upon reaching the deposit, we intend to commence approximately 6,000 feet of development drifting and establishing drill stations, which will be necessary to provide drill access. We estimate that Stage 2 will cost approximately $5.0 million.
Stage 3-Phase I Delineation Drilling
In Stage 3 of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, we expect to commence approximately 25,000 feet of diamond core drilling. We expect to spend approximately $0.5 million on Phase I delineation drilling. We also expect to spend approximately $12.7 million (in addition to
amounts set forth above) during Stages 1, 2 and 3 on site operating and capital costs, optimization studies and general corporate support.
Stage 4-Phase II Drilling and Bankable Feasibility Study
During this stage, we anticipate completing an additional 25,000 feet of diamond core drilling, undertaking additional metallurgical and geotechnical testing and analysis, and if the results of our exploration are successful, preparing for and completing a bankable feasibility study at an estimated cost, with site operating and capital costs, of approximately $10.0 million. A feasibility study and report would provide the basis for financing the development of the project, currently estimated to be approximately $550 million.
Permitting and Environmental
Approval by regulatory agencies will be required before the Montanore Project can proceed with exploration and project development. The agencies that are involved with the major permits include the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS"), Montana Department of Environmental Quality ("MDEQ"), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ("USACE"), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ("USFWS"). There are other permits required, such as water rights, which will involve other agencies. Effort continued in 2012 towards obtaining the necessary approvals from these agencies.
In 2012 the USFS and MDEQ continued to develop the final environmental impact statement ("FEIS") that assesses the environmental impacts of the Montanore Project including wetlands mitigation and water quality analyses. The agencies completed a draft environmental impact statement in March 2009 and, following comments from the environmental protection agency and public comments, required submission of a supplemental draft environmental impact statement which was completed in September 2011. Public comment on the supplemental draft environmental impact statement was completed in December 2011. In working to develop the FEIS, the USFS and MDEQ are incorporating public comments, as well as updated analyses and new technical data generated by the environmental impact contractor and the Company, and are preparing updates to monitoring requirements and mitigation for each of the alternatives analyzed. During 2012, the Company continued to provide technical information to support this process.
As part of the permitting process, the USFS must prepare a biological assessment ("BA") for both terrestrial and aquatic life. The USFWS reviews these reports in connection with its biological opinion ("BO") addressing the impact of the Project on threatened and endangered species, including grizzly bear and bull trout. The initial BA was prepared by the USFS and submitted to the USFWS in 2011. The USFWS provided general comments to the USFS early in 2012. The issuance of biological opinions is required prior to the completion of a record of decision, which is required for issuance of permits for our underground drilling program.
Also as part of the development of the FEIS and determination of the agencies' preferred alternatives, the USACE must complete an analysis of potential Project discharges of dredged or fill material into water of the United States, including wetlands. These discharges are regulated by section 404 of the Clean Water Act which requires a permit before dredged or fill material may be discharged and is required for construction of the tailings facility. In 2012, the USACE advanced their process by completing a jurisdictional determination on the proposed tailings impoundment site. This process required extensive aquatic habitat data. The Company completed a conceptual mitigation plan for aquatic resources affected by the proposed tailings impoundment and continues to work with the USACE to advance the mitigation plan. During 2012, the Company also provided extensive technical analyses for alternative tailings impoundment areas and the feasibility of each site in connection with the 404 analysis.
During 2012, project monitoring activities were expanded as well, to establish baseline conditions prior to the initiation of project development activities. The increased monitoring activities are tied to projected agency requirements prior to or during initial project development activities that will be incorporated into the FEIS.
Under Montana regulations, new projects or amendments must go through a non-degradation review pertaining to water quality. The Project went through the process in 1993 when it was approved by the previous operator. The Company maintains this provision is not required since Permit 150 has remained active since issuance and it went through the non-degradation review process at that time. MDEQ has provided its proposal to review the project under this regulatory provision.
Also during 2012, the Company developed water rights applications which request authorization for beneficial use of water resources and submitted them to the State of Montana. Submittal of these applications could not be accomplished until the DEIS and SDEIS were completed and the preferred alternative was selected by the agencies. These applications are pending comment from the agencies.
Engineering
In May 2006, McIntosh Engineering and Hatch Ltd. completed a Cost Update Study and generated a draft report for the Montanore Project. This report included engineering optimization, engineering review, cost updates, mine planning, and other aspects of the project. The report also provided additional optimization opportunities that will be evaluated as part of the on-going internal engineering work currently underway.
As part of the mine planning effort, we assembled all of the geologic information developed by Noranda and another previous owner and incorporated the information into the Vulcan mine modeling package. This 3-dimensional geologic model is a critical first step in further evaluating mine planning activities and projection of ore zones. This information was also used to develop the underground drilling targets for the evaluation drilling program.
Preliminary Economic Assessment
On December 22, 2010, we announced the completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") for the Montanore Project. The PEA was prepared to provide guidance on the potential viability of the Montanore Project and the basis for the continuation of exploration activities. Because of the uncertainties associated with any mineral deposit that, like the Montanore Project, does not have reserves, the PEA should not be relied on to value the Montanore Project, nor should it be considered to be a feasibility or pre-feasibility study.
The PEA did not update the mineral resource analysis of the Montanore deposit completed in October 2005 by Mine Development Associates ("MDA Report"). Mineralized material, as set forth in the MDA Report, is 81.5 million short tons of material grading 2.04 oz/short ton silver and 0.75% copper with a cutoff grade of 1.0 oz/short ton silver.
The PEA assumed pricing of the estimated Montanore resources based on a three year trailing average at August 16, 2010 (i.e. $3.10 per lb. for copper and $15.00 per ounce for silver) and developed cost estimates for development of the Montanore Project. Initial capital costs for the project were estimated to be $552.3 million (with a ± 35% accuracy). The PEA assumed that the project would utilize conventional grinding and flotation processing techniques at a processing rate of 12,500 short tons per day.
The PEA concluded that the Montanore Project demonstrates favorable economic potential which justifies commencement of a resource evaluation program and subsequent pre-feasibility study.
On February 3, 2011, the PEA was filed in Canada in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101-Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects. The technical report summarizing the results of the PEA was prepared by or under the supervision of Mr. Chris Kaye and Mr. Geoffrey Challiner of Mine and Quarry Engineering Services, Inc. of San Mateo, California, each of whom is an independent "Qualified Person," as such term is defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. The PEA filed in Canada is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Grizzly Bear Study
The University of Washington's Center for Conservation Biology developed DNA techniques that uses scat for various wildlife species studies. The DNA method analyzes scat to identify the type of animal and each individual. In 2008 the Company, at a cost of approximately $0.4 million, hired the University of Washington's Center for Conservation Biology to develop a study plan for the grizzly bear recovery area (Cabinet Yaak Ecosystem) where the Montanore Project is located. A small portion of the ecosystem was inventoried using dogs trained to mark on bear scat. The University of Washington scope of work was to complete the field work and provide the DNA findings. This work was completed in 2009 and a report issued. The results showed 18 grizzly bear scat samples were collected and 9 out of the 18 samples were from different individual grizzly bears.
Dr. Ed Kline, a contract biologist working on the Montanore Project analyzed the results of the University of Washington Study. Based on the eight individual grizzly bears identified without any duplications in the data set, Dr. Kline concluded the minimum population in the Cabinet Ecosystem was likely significantly underestimated by agencies. Rather than the 11 to 13 bears claimed by the agencies, the data suggests a population of 30 to 40. Since the 2009 study and Dr. Kline's analysis of the data, the agency's estimated grizzly bear population has increased to approximately this range.
USGS Grizzly Bear Hair Snag Survey
Based, in part, on the grizzly bear scat study and analysis by Dr. Kline, Lincoln County initiated a cooperative program to better understand the grizzly bear populations. Population estimates completed by the agency has been limited due to funding and other issues. The County enlisted funding from public and private parties, including the Company, to support a two year extensive hair snag survey. The study will cost slightly more than $1.0 million with the Company contributing $0.2 million towards the work. Two seasons of hair have been collected from the Cabinet Yaak Ecosystem to provide a high quality population estimate, and are currently undergoing DNA analysis.
Hydrology Study
As a result of conflicting opinions about how water flows from the top of mountains to the bottom, at a cost of approximately $0.4 million the Company in 2010 commissioned AMEC Geomatrix of Helena, Montana to develop a 3 dimensional numerical model to predict dewatering rates and possible areas of effects. The model uses a finite element code called FEFLOW. AMEC Geomatrix staff incorporated FEFLOW into a numerical model to represent the hydrologic conditions associated with the deposit. The model is a "tool" to help the permitting agencies assess the potential effects associated with mine dewatering. Monitoring can be developed that targets these potential areas to collect more detailed hydrologic information to assist in mine planning and update the hydrologic model predictions.
Development of the model was initiated after the issuance of the draft environmental impact statement in 2010 and replaces a less sophisticated two-dimensional model prepared by the agency.
Description of Royalties on our Patented Mining Claims
Under the HR 133 and HR 134 patented mining claims, which cover the Montanore deposit, we are required to pay a production payment royalty of twenty cents ($.20) per ton of ore extracted and milled therefrom, pursuant to (i) that Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 6, 1988, between Atlantic Goldfields Inc. and Montana Reserves Company, and (ii) that Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 6, 1988, between Jascan Resources Inc. and Montana Reserves Company, a former joint venture partner with Noranda. The royalty is payable with respect to the amount of resources included in an independent feasibility study prepared for project financing purposes, is payable at six month intervals following the commencement of commercial production as defined in the referenced agreements, and terminates when the resource as defined in the feasibility study has been mined and milled.
Other Properties
The Company also owns certain patented and unpatented mining claims on zinc properties in northern Washington State, referred to as the Iroquois and Advance properties. No mining activities have been conducted on these properties since the 1960s. In December 2007, we completed an impairment analysis of the carrying values of the Iroquois and Advance properties to assess their immediate development potential. In connection with that evaluation, we wrote off the capitalized costs associated with the properties in the amount of $0.2 million which had been recorded in connection with mining activity that occurred in the 1950s. We continue to hold the real property, mining claims, and patented claims underlying the Iroquois and Advance properties; however, such property, mining claims, and patented claims do not have any book value in our consolidated financial statements. We also generate minor income from a working interest royalty, acquired more than 40 years ago, in several producing oil wells located in Kansas.
Exploration Earn-In Agreement
On April 5, 2012, we entered into an Exploration Earn-In Agreement with Estrella Gold Corporation ("Estrella") pursuant to which we could acquire 75% of the La Estrella silver and gold exploration property in central Peru. La Estrella is an advanced exploration stage project which contains an epithermal, volcanic-hosted gold-silver system with associated base-metal mineralization. The property consists of 2300 hectares in which the mineralized area is fairly centrally situated, extending north-south for over 2000 meters, and east-west over 500 meters. The mineralized zone is from 100 meters to 200 meters thick, and extends in a moderately west-dipping tabular zone to depths of greater than 350 meters.
The terms of the agreement allow the Company to earn 75% of the La Estrella property by expending $5.0 million on exploration activities and making annual cash payments to Estrella of $0.1 million prior to the end of the first agreement year ending on February 28, 2013 and $0.2 million prior to the end of each subsequent agreement year until the earn-in has been completed. The Company is also required to expend a minimum of $0.5 million in exploration and development expenditures in each of the first and second agreement years in order to maintain its rights under the Earn-In Agreement. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had met the first year's exploration and development expenditure requirements. The Company may terminate the Earn-In Agreement at any time without penalty, subject to reclamation and other customary obligations.
Our 2012 exploration program consisted of a ten person camp constructed in May, which supported an eight hole, 2697 meter diamond drill campaign beginning in early June and ending mid-August. All drill samples were washed, measured, logged, and cut on site. Samples for assay were bagged on site and transported by registered vehicles to ALS Global facilities in Callao, Peru, where
they were assessed for gold by 30 gram fire assay with AA finish (Method AA25) and for silver by four-acid digestion and AA Spectroscopy (Method AA62).
The program demonstrated continuous mineralization in seven of the eight holes. Based on these results, combined with a subsequent 3D IP/Res Survey conducted by Val d'Or Geophysics Peru, the Company decided to continue the program into a second year.
ITEM 3.