ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The significant properties in which the Company has an interest are described below.
Montanore Property
The Montanore Project is located in Sanders and Lincoln Counties in northwestern Montana and consists of 10 patented mining claims and 861 unpatented mining claims owned by the Company. The unpatented mining claims are held subject to a $155 per claim annual maintenance fee paid to the federal government.
The Company's ownership of the Montanore deposit stems primarily from its ownership of two patented mining claims, identified as HR 133 and HR 134, which cover the surface outcrop or "apex" of the gently dipping mineralized beds. According to U.S. mining law, the holders of claims covering the apex of a dipping, tabular deposit own the minerals to depth, even if the deposit passes from beneath the apex claim. For the Company's claims at Montanore, these "extralateral rights" have been confirmed by the U.S. Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior and upheld in U.S. District Court. In addition to the patented apex claims, the Company owns unpatented claims located along the fault which bounds the southwestern margin of the deposit and extends outside of the western border of the Cabinet Wilderness Area.
The Company's property holdings for operational access and infrastructure support for the Montanore Project are located to the east of the deposit, south of the town of Libby, and are accessed from Libby by about 16 miles of secondary road up Libby Creek. The apex of the deposit can be reached from Noxon, the nearest town, by taking State Highway 200 about 2 miles to the east and then north about 5 miles on a secondary graveled road to the junction of the west and east forks of Rock Creek. From this point it is about a 4 mile hike up a Jeep trail behind a locked USFS gate to the deposit outcrop. The deposit outcrops near the border of, and other than the outcrop that occurs on the patented claims HR 133 and HR 134, lies entirely within the Cabinet Wilderness Area. Because any future mining of the deposit would take place underground and the Company has access to the deposit from outside the Cabinet Wilderness Area (our patented mining claims and certain other mineral rights predate the wilderness area designation), we do not believe that any future mining or associated surface activity would have a material impact on the wilderness area.
On May 31, 2006, the Company acquired the State Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System ("MPDES") water discharge permit for the Montanore Project as well as title to properties providing access to the portal of the Libby adit. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 3,000 feet short of the deposit. The Libby adit, when extended, will provide access to the Montanore deposit for a planned underground exploration and delineation drilling program. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant, equipment, or subsurface improvements other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit.
Non-Reserves-Mineralized Material
Non-Reserves Reported in the United States. The estimate of mineralized material set forth below was prepared by Mine Development Associates, or MDA, of Reno, Nevada in October 2005. The estimate was prepared in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
Mineralized Material Estimate in accordance with U.S. SEC Industry Guide 7
"Mineralized material" as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, although permissible under SEC's Industry Guide 7, does not indicate "reserves" by SEC standards. We cannot be certain that any part of the mineralized material at Montanore will ever be confirmed or converted into SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant "reserves." Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of the mineralized material will ever be confirmed or converted into reserves or that mineralized material can be economically or legally extracted.
Geology
The Montanore Project contains a strata-bound silver-copper deposit occurring in the Revett Formation, which is part of an extensive series of Precambrian-aged metasedimentary rocks belonging to the Belt Supergroup. The Revett Formation has been subdivided into three members (upper, middle and lower) based on the contained amounts of quartzite, silty quartzite and siltite. The lower Revett, which hosts the mineralized horizons, is composed primarily of quartzite with lesser interbeds of siltite and silty quartzite.
The silver-copper mineralization at Montanore is strata-bound in the upper portions of the lower Revett Formation. Copper and silver values are carried predominately in the minerals bornite, chalcocite, chalcopyrite and native silver in variable proportions and concentrations. Sulfide content of the mineralized rock rarely exceeds 3% to 4% and is commonly 1% to 2%.
The mineralized zone crops out at the surface and extends down dip at least 12,000 feet to the north-northwest. The mineralization is open ended in the down dip direction. Mineralization occurs in at least two sub-parallel horizons separated by a silver- and copper-deficient zone containing low-grade lead in the form of galena. The two horizons are identified as the B1 for the upper zone and the B for the lower and more extensive zone. Both zones dip to the northwest between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, with an average of just over 15 degrees. The width of the main (B) horizon, in plane view, is defined by a fault on one side and a fold axis on the other, and varies from 804 feet to 3,540 feet. The property boundaries, however, limit the controlled portion of the deposit to a maximum of 2,000 feet. The average thickness for each of the two horizons is 35 feet, depending upon cutoff.
History and Development
The Montanore Project was owned by Noranda Minerals Corporation between 1988 and 2002. During that time, the project received a Record of Decision ("ROD") approving a plan of operations from the USFS and the State of Montana, as well as all other permits required for the project, allowing Noranda to proceed with full operations, but the project was never put into operation. From 1988 to 2002, the Company held royalty rights to a portion of the deposit. In 2002, Noranda announced that it was withdrawing from the project, and subsequently transferred to us by quitclaim deed the patented and unpatented mining claims that control the mineral rights, and all drill core and intellectual property, including geologic, environmental and engineering studies, relating to the Montanore Project.
In May 2006, we acquired two Noranda subsidiaries that held title to the Montanore property, providing access to the 14,000 foot Libby adit which, when extended, will provide access to the Montanore deposit. Through this acquisition, we also received the Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the MPDES water discharge permit for the Montanore Project. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 3,000 feet short of the deposit. Prior to our activity in 2006, there were no plant, equipment, or subsurface improvements other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. During the third quarter of 2006, we reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit. The necessary permit revisions were received in November 2006 to undertake an underground evaluation drilling program. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we purchased generators to provide power for the initial evaluation drilling program and erected a warehouse building and shop at the Libby adit site, along with an office and employee change facility.
In January 2007, we established a $1.124 million stand-by letter of credit to satisfy reclamation bonding requirements related to our planned exploration at the Libby adit. In 2007, we completed the construction of site infrastructure to support our planned underground evaluation program at the Montanore Project including a $1.5 million water treatment plant to process all water pumped out of the adit and a dry storage structure for inventory. We also acquired an initial fleet of surface and underground heavy equipment.
In 2008 and 2009, we continued the testing and installation of the adit dewatering system in preparation for the planned 3,000 foot extension of the Libby adit and initiation of the drilling program and installed sumps that allowed us to test most of the mining equipment that will be used during the adit advancement and future development activities. We dewatered the adit in 2009. Engineering and geology work also continued during 2008 and 2009.
The decline has been on care and maintenance since the second quarter 2009, pending completion of the environmental review process. Operations at the Libby adit are limited to maintaining the water level at the 7,400 foot level in the adit and treating the water pumped from the adit.
Advanced Exploration and Delineation Drilling Program
The objectives of our underground evaluation drilling program are to:
• expand the known higher grade intercepts of the Montanore deposit;
• develop additional information about the deposit;
• further assess and define the mineralized zone; and
• provide additional geotechnical, hydrological and other data.
The stages of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, and activities undertaken to date in each stage, are set out below. We expect that, following completion of permitting, Stages 2, 3 and 4 would take approximately 18 months.
Stage 1-Dewatering and Adit Rehabilitation
The construction of water pumping and treatment facilities and the addition of generators to provide power for the underground exploration program are described above. In addition, we have worked to rehabilitate the adit which involves, among other things, sealing the walls, installing new roof bolts and extending power, ventilation and dewatering infrastructure in the adit. To date, infrastructure placed in the decline includes a refuge chamber, mine power center and temporary pump station, along with the previously installed sumps and pumping system at the 700 foot location. As previously noted, the adit is now on care and maintenance until the environmental review process is complete. We are prohibited from doing further work in the adit until the USFS approves an operating plan for Montanore. Total costs for Stage 1 activities are projected at approximately $7.3 million, of which approximately $6.8 million had been spent by December 31, 2014.
Stage 2-Advancement of Adit, Drifting and Establishment of Drill Stations
Once the permitting process is complete and the adit rehabilitation completed, the Company plans to advance the adit approximately 3,000 feet towards the middle of the deposit. Upon reaching the deposit, we intend to commence approximately 6,000 feet of development drifting and establishing drill stations, which will be necessary to provide drill access. We estimate that Stage 2 will cost approximately $12.0 million.
Stage 3-Phase I Delineation Drilling
In Stage 3 of the advanced exploration and delineation drilling program, we expect to commence approximately 25,000 feet of diamond core drilling. We expect to spend approximately $2.0 million on Phase I delineation drilling. We also expect to spend approximately $8.2 million (in addition to amounts set forth above) during Stages 1, 2 and 3 on site operating and capital costs, optimization studies and general corporate support.
Stage 4-Phase II Drilling and Bankable Feasibility Study
During this stage, we anticipate completing an additional 25,000 feet of diamond core drilling, undertaking additional metallurgical and geotechnical testing and analysis, and if the results of our exploration are successful, preparing for and completing a bankable feasibility study at an estimated cost, with site operating and capital costs, of approximately $6.0 million. A feasibility study and report would provide the basis for financing the development of the project, which was estimated in November 2010 to cost $550.0 million to develop and construct.
Permitting and Environmental
Approval by regulatory agencies will be required before the Montanore Project can proceed with exploration and project development. The agencies that are involved with the major permits include the USFS, MDEQ, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ("USACE"), and the USFWS. There are other permits required, such as air quality permits and water rights, which will involve other agencies. Significant progress was made in 2014 towards obtaining agency approval and authorization to proceed with exploration and project development.
Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision
During 2014, the USFS and MDEQ continued to develop the final environmental impact statement ("FEIS") that assesses the environmental impacts of the Montanore Project including wetlands mitigation and water quality analyses. The agencies completed a draft environmental impact statement in March 2009 and, following comments from the environmental protection agency and public comments, the required submission of a supplemental draft environmental impact statement was completed in September 2011. Public comment on the supplemental draft environmental impact statement was completed in December 2011. Subsequent to 2011, the development of the FEIS included consideration of public comments as well as updated analyses and new technical data generated by the environmental impact contractor and the Company, to prepare updates to monitoring requirements and proposed mitigation designed to minimize or offset the projected impact of the Montanore Project. Upon completion of the FEIS, the MDEQ and USFS must each issue a record of decision ("ROD") before the underground evaluation and drilling program could begin.
In August of 2014, a preliminary FEIS was completed and reviewed by the agencies, a second preliminary FEIS was completed in late 2014, and a final technical review was completed with agency comments submitted to the environmental impact statement ("EIS") contractor at the end of the year. The EIS contractor also generated several versions of the draft ROD during 2014 which were reviewed by the agencies. A final draft ROD will be included with the FEIS that will be released to the public. On March 26, 2015, the USFS announced it will provide legal notice to the public announcing the availability of the FEIS and draft ROD on April 1, 2015. Following public notice, the objection process will commence. The objection process is a new program replacing the previous USFS appeal program. Under the objection process, individuals or organizations with legal standing can provide the agencies with objections and their proposed resolutions to address their concern. The Company expects the objection period to conclude in the second half of 2015. At the conclusion of the objection process, the USFS will modify the FEIS or draft ROD as appropriate and then file a Notice of Availability in the Federal Register providing the public notification that the FEIS and ROD are available and the USFS has made a final decision on project approval. The MDEQ ROD should be issued shortly after the USFS places the Notice of Availability in the Federal Register.
Biological Opinion
As part of the permitting process, the USFS is required to prepare a biological assessment ("BA") for both terrestrial and aquatic life. The USFWS reviews these reports in connection with its biological opinion addressing the impact of the Project on threatened and endangered species, including grizzly bear and bull trout. The issuance of a biological opinion is required prior to the completion of the FEIS and issuance of a ROD. The initial BA was prepared by the USFS and submitted to the USFWS in 2011. The USFWS provided general comments to the USFS early in 2012, and the two agencies continued the Section 7 consultation process into 2013. In December 2013, the USFWS completed a final draft terrestrial biological opinion on the project and submitted it to the USFS and the Company for review. On March 31, 2014, the USFWS issued the final biological opinion concluding that the project, as mitigated, will not adversely impact endangered species. With this determination, the USFS met the requirements of the Endangered Species Act necessary to advance the Montanore Project.
Section 404 Permit
The USACE has authority over jurisdictional waters of the U.S. and as part of the development of the FEIS, the USACE must complete an analysis of potential project discharges of dredged or fill material into water of the United States, including wetlands. These discharges are regulated by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act which requires a permit before dredged or fill material may be discharged that is required for construction of the tailings facility. In 2012, the USACE completed a jurisdictional determination on the proposed tailings impoundment site. This process required extensive
aquatic habitat data. The Company completed a compensatory mitigation plan for aquatic resources affected by the proposed tailings impoundment which was accepted by the USACE as complete during 2014. It is anticipated the USACE will make a permit decision shortly after the FEIS is issued. The State of Montana must certify the USACE Section 404 authorization through the 401 certification process before the USACE can issue a permit. The State has been involved throughout the 404 review process and continues to work with the USACE during 2015. The Company expects that the 404 permit will be issued subsequent to the issuance of the final ROD.
Non-Jurisdictional Wetlands
The USACE has authority to regulate proposed discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. while the USFS has authority to regulate non-jurisdictional wetlands. In 2014, the USFS and USACE concurred on the classification of the jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional wetlands. The Company prepared a monitoring and mitigation plan for the USFS to compensate for the loss of non-jurisdictional wetlands to ensure the project is compliant with the "no net loss" of wetlands policy. The USFS has accepted the plan as complete and will incorporate the proposal with any modifications into the FEIS and draft ROD.
Hardrock Operating Permit
The Company currently holds Permit 150 (Hardrock Operating Permit) which has remained active since its issuance in 1993. The Company also holds an approved amendment to Permit 150 that authorizes exploration activities pending the completion of the FEIS.
State Permits
Under Montana regulations, all projects must go through a nondegradation review to determine if there could be an impact to water quality. The nondegradation review was completed in 2014 and the MDEQ prepared a draft decision with regard to the project included in the FEIS. The MDEQ is anticipated to publicize its nondegradation review concurrently with the completion of the FEIS.
The Company has continued to work with Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation ("DNRC") responsible for issuing water rights. Modifications to the original application were completed in 2014 and the agency has determined the applications are complete. The DNRC determined that issuance of the water rights cannot be accomplished until the USFS issues the ROD for the project. They have prepared a draft water rights application for the project to cover water uses for the milling process, domestic use, and other water uses throughout the mine.
Montana regulates transmission lines under the Major Siting Act. A draft certificate was prepared several years ago and remains in place pending the completion of the FEIS, at which point the MDEQ will issue the authorization to construct a transmission line to supply power to the project.
Engineering
In May 2006, McIntosh Engineering and Hatch Ltd. completed a Cost Update Study and generated a draft report for the Montanore Project. This report included engineering optimization, engineering review, cost updates, mine planning, and other aspects of the project. The report also provided additional optimization opportunities that will be evaluated as part of the on-going internal engineering work currently underway.
As part of the mine planning effort, we assembled all of the geologic information developed by Noranda and another previous owner and incorporated the information into the Vulcan mine modeling package. This 3-dimensional geologic model is a critical first step in further evaluating mine planning
activities and projection of ore zones. This information was also used to develop the underground drilling targets for the evaluation drilling program.
Preliminary Economic Assessment
On December 22, 2010, we announced the completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") for the Montanore Project. The PEA was prepared to provide guidance on the potential viability of the Montanore Project and the basis for the continuation of exploration activities. Because of the uncertainties associated with any mineral deposit that, like the Montanore Project, does not have reserves, the PEA should not be relied on to value the Montanore Project, nor should it be considered to be a feasibility or pre-feasibility study.
The PEA did not update the mineral resource analysis of the Montanore deposit completed in October 2005 by Mine Development Associates ("MDA Report"). Mineralized material, as set forth in the MDA Report, is 81.5 million short tons of material grading 2.04 ounces per short ton silver and 0.75% copper with a cutoff grade of 1.0 ounces per short ton silver.
The PEA assumed pricing of the estimated Montanore resources based on a three year trailing average at August 16, 2010 (i.e. $3.10 per pound for copper and $15.00 per ounce for silver) and developed cost estimates for development of the Montanore Project. Initial capital costs for the project were estimated to be $552.3 million (with a ± 35% accuracy). The PEA assumed that the project would utilize conventional grinding and flotation processing techniques at a processing rate of 12,500 short tons per day.
The PEA concluded that the Montanore Project demonstrates favorable economic potential which justifies commencement of a resource evaluation program and subsequent pre-feasibility study.
On February 3, 2011, the PEA was filed in Canada in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101-Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects. The technical report summarizing the results of the PEA was prepared by or under the supervision of Mr. Chris Kaye and Mr. Geoffrey Challiner of Mine and Quarry Engineering Services, Inc. of San Mateo, California, each of whom is an independent "Qualified Person," as such term is defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101. The PEA filed in Canada is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Description of Royalties on our Patented Mining Claims
Under the HR 133 and HR 134 patented mining claims, which cover the Montanore deposit, we are required to pay a production payment royalty of twenty cents ($.20) per ton of ore extracted and milled therefrom, pursuant to (i) that Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 6, 1988, between Atlantic Goldfields Inc. and Montana Reserves Company, and (ii) that Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 6, 1988, between Jascan Resources Inc. and Montana Reserves Company, a former joint venture partner with Noranda. The royalty is payable with respect to the amount of resources included in an independent feasibility study prepared for project financing purposes, is payable at six month intervals following the commencement of commercial production as defined in the referenced agreements, and terminates when the resource as defined in the feasibility study has been mined and milled.
Other Properties
The Company also owns certain patented and unpatented mining claims on zinc properties in northern Washington State, referred to as the Iroquois and Advance properties. No mining activities have been conducted on these properties since the 1960s.
Exploration Earn-In Agreement
During 2012, we entered into an Exploration Earn-In Agreement with Estrella Gold Corporation ("Estrella") pursuant to which we could acquire 75% of the La Estrella silver and gold advanced exploration stage project in central Peru. The Company conducted exploration on this property during 2012 and 2013, and in January 2014, the Company terminated the Earn-In Agreement.
ITEM 3.