ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The significant properties in which the Company has an interest are described below.
Montanore Property
The Montanore Project is located in Sanders and Lincoln Counties in northwestern Montana and consists of two federal patented mining claims and approximately 776 unpatented lode mining claims and mill sites, which cover approximately 1700 acres. The unpatented lode claims and mill sites are owned by the Company and are held subject to a $125 per claim annual payment to the Federal government.
The Company’s ownership of the Montanore deposit stems primarily from its ownership of two patented mining claims, identified as HR 133 and HR 134, which cover the surface outcrop or “apex” of the gently dipping mineralized beds. According to U.S. mining law, the holders of claims covering the apex of a dipping, tabular deposit own the minerals to depth, even if the deposit passes from beneath the apex claim. For the Company’s claims at Montanore these “extralateral rights” have been confirmed by the U.S.
Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior and upheld in U.S. District Court. In addition to the patented apex claims, the Company owns unpatented claims located along the fault which bounds the southwestern margin of the deposit and extends outside of the western border of the Cabinet Wilderness Area.
The Company’s property holdings for operational access and infrastructure support for the Montanore Project are located to the east of the deposit, south of the town of Libby, and are accessed from Libby by about 16 miles of secondary road up Libby Creek. The apex of the deposit can be reached from Noxon, the nearest town, by taking State Highway 200 about 2 miles to the east and then north about 5 miles on a secondary graveled road to the junction of the west and east forks of Rock Creek. From this point it is about a 4-mile hike up a Jeep trail behind a locked U.S. Forest Service gate to the deposit outcrop. The deposit outcrops near the border of, and lies entirely within the Cabinet Wilderness Area. Because any future mining of the deposit would take place underground and the Company has access to the deposit from outside the Cabinet Wilderness Area, (our patented mining claims and certain other mineral rights predate the wilderness area designation), we do not believe that any future mining or associated surface activity would impact the wilderness area.
On May 31, 2006, we acquired Hard Rock Operating Permit 150 that covers certain exploration activities and the Montana Pollution Discharge Elimination System (MPDES) water discharge permit for the Montanore Project and title to properties providing access to the portal of the Libby adit. The 14,000 foot Libby adit was constructed in the early 1990s by previous operators. The adit stops approximately 2,000 feet short of the deposit. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company reopened the adit and completed initial water testing to determine the treatment method for water discharged from the adit. The necessary permit revisions were received in November 2006 to undertake a planned $40 million underground evaluation drilling program over the next two years. Also in the fourth quarter 2006, we purchased a site generator and erected a warehouse building at the Libby adit site, along with an office and employee change facility. We established a $1.124 million stand-by letter of credit in early January 2007 to satisfy reclamation bonding requirements related to our planned exploration at the Libby adit. Currently we are engaged in staffing, equipment acquisition, and pilot water treatment testing for the drilling program. Prior to this acquisition there were no plant, equipment, subsurface improvements or equipment other than the Libby adit, which was plugged and in reclamation. Power for the planned evaluation drilling program is expected to be provided by three on-site generators. The Company owns water rights associated with the Montanore property that it believes would be sufficient for possible mining activities.
Non-Reserves - Mineralized Material; Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources
The estimate of mineralized material set forth below was prepared by Mine Development Associates, referred to as MDA. The estimate was prepared in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 based on silver and copper prices of $6.24 per ounce and $1.26 per pound, respectively, which represent three year average prices as of December 31, 2005.
Mineralized Material Estimate in Accordance with U.S. SEC Industry Guide 7
Tons
Silver Grade
(Ounces per ton)
Copper Grade
Cutoff Grade
(Silver ounces per ton)
Mineralized Material
81,506,000
2.04
0.75%
1.0
In accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101, MDA has estimated the resource at Montanore as set forth below. Steve Ristorcelli, R.P. Geo., C.P.G., and David C. Fitch, C.P.G., are the qualified persons under Canada’s National Instrument 43-101 for this resource estimate.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources
This section uses the terms “measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources”. We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them, and describes the equivalent as “Mineralized Material”. U.S. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources
This section uses the term “inferred mineral resources.” We advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of the inferred mineral resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable.
Resource Estimate as presented in Accordance with Canada’s National Instrument 43-101
Tons
Silver Grade
(Ounces per ton)
Copper Grade
Cutoff Grade
(Silver ounces per ton)
Measured
4,026,000
1.85
0.74%
1.0
Indicated
77,480,000
2.05
0.75%
1.0
Inferred
35,080,000
1.85
0.71%
1.0
Geology
The Montanore Project contains a strata-bound silver-copper deposit occurring in the Revett Formation, which is part of an extensive series of Precambrian-aged metasedimentary rocks belonging to the Belt Supergroup. The Revett Formation has been subdivided into three members (upper, middle and lower) based on the contained amounts of quartzite, silty quartzite and siltite. The lower Revett, which hosts the mineralized horizons, is composed primarily of quartzite with lesser interbeds of siltite and silty quartzite.
The silver-copper mineralization at Montanore is strata-bound in the upper portions of the lower Revett Formation. Copper and silver values are carried predominately in the minerals bornite, chalcocite, chalcopyrite and native silver in variable proportions and concentrations. Minor to trace amounts of galena, digenite, covellite, tetrahedrite, gersdorffite and molybdenite have been identified. Sulfide content of the mineralized rock rarely exceeds 3% to 4% and is commonly 1% to 2%.
The mineralized zone crops out at the surface and expends down dip at least 12,000 ft to the north-northwest. The mineralization is open ended in the down dip direction. Mineralization occurs in at least two sub-parallel horizons separated by a silver- and copper-deficient zone containing low-grade lead in the form of galena.
History
In 1983, U.S. Borax and Chemical Corporation discovered the Montanore silver/copper deposit, which extended in part beneath what is now the Company’s property. In 1984, a lease for 11 claims was entered into between U.S. Borax and our predecessor, Heidelberg Silver Mining Co., Inc. U.S. Borax conducted more than 70,000 feet of core drilling from the surface, which outlined the bedded silver/copper mineralization. In 1988, U.S. Borax and partners sold their interest in the project to a joint venture between Noranda Minerals Corp. and Montana Reserves Co.
Also in 1988, Newhi, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, acquired the assets of Heidelberg through a corporate merger. The assets acquired by Newhi consisted primarily of 34 unpatented mining claims located along the fault that borders the Montanore deposit, and a 4 acre patented mill site. In 1993, we determined that 18 of the mining claims were immaterial to the maintenance of our interest in the Montanore project and these claims were dropped. Of the remaining 16 claims, 11 claims were leased to U.S. Borax in November 1984, and acquired by Noranda in 1988.
In late 1989, Noranda began construction of the Libby adit, using a conventional tunneling method from a point east of the Cabinet Wilderness Area. The purpose of the program was to more accurately define and develop a portion of the deposit containing approximately 30 million tons. The proposed work was to include a 3-mile long decline and approximately 2,000 feet of lateral development in the vicinity of the deposit. Close spaced drilling was planned from these workings and bulk metallurgical samples were to be taken during this phase. In December 1991, tunneling was stopped at approximately 14,000 feet, or about 2,000 feet short of the deposit, pending the completion of the project’s environmental impact statement, or EIS. Also in 1991, Noranda completed the process to acquire patents to the two “apex” claims controlling the deposit. In 1993, the joint venture between Noranda and Montana Reserves was dissolved with Noranda retaining rights to the project.
During 1993, the Montanore EIS was approved and Noranda was authorized to proceed with the project. As part of the EIS process, this approval was subject to appeal, and several appeals were made. In 1994, the U.S. Forest Service denied all appeals.
In 1991, an environmental group brought suit against Noranda and the U.S. Forest Service concerning the validation of Noranda’s apex claims. In 1993, the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture found that Noranda’s mining claims were valid, and in 1997 the U.S. District Court hearing the case also ruled that Noranda’s claims were valid. The court decision was appealed and in March, 1999 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the U.S. District Court decision. In 2001 the U.S. government issued patents for the two claims covering the apex of the deposit, thus assuring Noranda ownership of the Montanore deposit.
In 2002, Noranda notified us that it was abandoning its rights to the project. Under the terms of its claim lease agreement with Newhi, Inc., Noranda was required to quitclaim to us any claims owned by Noranda that overlapped the original Heidelberg claims. As the newly patented apex claims were overlapping, Noranda deeded these claims to Newhi in August 2002. The mineral rights we acquired are subject to a $0.20 per ton royalty, and a 5% net profits royalty which would commence after the operator has recovered all of its exploration and development costs. In December 2002, Noranda transferred to us 70,000 feet of drill core and all geologic, environmental, and engineering data generated during its 14 year management of the project.
The Company resubmitted its plan of operation and hard rock mine operating permit application for the Montanore project to the U.S. Forest Service and Montana Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) at the end of December 2004. See “-Permitting and Environmental.”
We are conducting an extensive optimization review and feasibility study of the Montanore Project in order to update the mine plan and to determine the optimal rates of production. We have spent an estimated $6.9 million on the Montanore property since acquiring it, primarily on the re-permitting process, a pre-feasibility study, exploration and an additional $50,000 per year in property holding costs. We estimate expenditures of at least $16.0 million in 2007 in connection with the continued permitting, engineering, exploration and preparation for and commencement of the underground evaluation drilling program.
Engineering
McIntosh Engineering and Hatch Ltd. completed the Cost Update Study and generated a draft report for the project in May 2006. This report included engineering optimization, engineering review, cost updates, mine planning, and other aspects of the project. The report also provides additional optimization opportunities that should be evaluated as part of the on-going internal engineering work currently underway.
As part of the mine planning effort, we assembled all of the geologic information developed by Noranda and U.S. Borax for the project and incorporated the information into the Vulcan mine modeling package. This 3-dimensional geologic model is a critical first step in further evaluating mine planning activities and projection of ore zones. This information was also used to develop the underground drilling targets for the evaluation drilling program, described below.
Evaluation Drilling Program
In November 2006 we received approval for a second minor revision to Hard Rock Operating Permit 150, allowing us to begin our underground evaluation drilling program. Under this planned $40 million program, we expect to dewater and rehabilitate the Libby adit, and then advance the adit approximately 3,000 feet towards the middle of the deposit. An additional 10,000 feet of development drifting will be necessary to provide drill access, following which we expect to undertake diamond core drilling of approximately 51 holes totaling approximately 45,000 feet.
With the exception of the first 600 feet, the length of the adit contains water. The Company plans to treat water discharged from the adit using ultra-filtration and possibly chemical pre-treatment so that discharged water, both during the dewatering process as well as development of the adit and drilling program, can meet Montana’s water quality standards. The pilot scale tests of the water treatment method were completed in February 2007.
As dewatering takes place, the Company plans to rehabilitate and develop the adit, which is anticipated to include, among other activities, scaling the walls, installing new roof bolts and extending electricity, venting and dewatering infrastructure into the adit. Once rehabilitation is complete, expected by the end of the second quarter of 2007, the Company expects to advance the adit by approximately 3,000 feet, followed by 10,000 feet of development drifting and establishment of drill stations. The construction of site facilities was completed in January 2007. Power for the planned evaluation drilling program is expected to be provided by three on-site generators. The objectives of the underground evaluation program are to:
·
Expand the known higher grade zones of the deposit
·
Develop additional information about the deposit with the objective of preparing a bankable feasibility study
·
Assess and define the mineralized zone that extends beyond the current resource boundary
·
Provide additional data for geotechnical, hydrological and other information required to complete a final bankable feasibility study
We expect that this drilling will be completed in late 2008. We are assessing the workforce needed to initiate the evaluation drilling program and added three more employees on site in late January 2007. In addition, we have reviewed equipment availability and completed several rounds of discussions with vendors and equipment manufacturers on delivery of equipment based on the anticipated evaluation drilling program schedule. We are currently in the process of soliciting equipment bids.
Permitting and Environmental
During 2006, we continued to advance the permitting effort for the Montanore Project. The United States Forest Service and MDEQ have been actively engaged in reviewing company reports and applications. Baseline data, technical reports, and supplemental applications have been submitted as part of the environmental review process. Our consultants continue to address technical questions and comments generated by the agencies as they advance the draft EIS, which we expect to be completed in mid-2007.
Prior to issuance of the final EIS the U.S. Forest Service is required to complete a biological assessment and submit and initiate a consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for the purpose of issuing a biological opinion addressing the impact of the project on threatened and endangered species, including grizzly bear, lynx and bull trout. Following the issuance of the final EIS, we expect that each agency will issue a Record of Decision and their respective formal permits and authorization. Required permits include, but are not limited to, a wetland 404 permit, a water discharge permit (MPDES), a power transmission line permit and further revisions to Hard Rock Operating Permit 150.
We submitted a MPDES draft application to the MDEQ in the third quarter of 2005. The agencies had several comments for which we developed technical responses, submitted a supplemental application in late 2006 and completed additional work in January 2007. This permit will establish the allowable discharge levels of mine and rain water during development and operations, if any, of the Montanore Project.
A study by Bonneville Power Authority (BPA) required for the EIS and power agreement was completed in draft form late in 2006. It is expected that BPA’s report on this study will be finalized in early 2007. This report is required for both the Project EIS and review by the MDEQ of the application for the transmission line that would supply power to the Project if a mine were developed. In addition to the BPA report, we have submitted additional technical responses to the MDEQ concerning the transmission line.
Montana permitting regulations require the Company to submit a Hard Rock Mine Impact Analysis to Lincoln County and City of Libby local government agencies, which assesses potential economic benefits to and impacts on local government services. We submitted and presented this Impact Analysis to the Lincoln County and City of Libby governmental officials in late 2005. They completed a preliminary analysis and developed questions with respect to the economic analysis. As part of the process, we developed a proposal to pre-pay taxes for the first year of construction to assist the county in offsetting the limited impacts to the local community. The County is reviewing this final proposal and it is expected to be accepted by early 2007.
Advance and Iroquois Properties
The Company owns the Advance and Iroquois zinc-lead exploration properties located in northeastern Washington State, approximately six miles south of the Canadian border. The properties are situated five miles apart along a belt of Cambrian carbonate sediments that have acted as host rocks for several former mines. Both properties are easily accessible on secondary graveled roads by two wheel drive vehicles. A large zinc smelter and refinery is located at Trail, British Columbia, Canada, approximately 17 miles distance, over excellent roads.
The Company was originally formed in 1947 to explore the Advance and Iroquois properties. Since that time, it has leased its holdings to major companies including Rare Metals, Inc. (El Paso Natural Gas) (1959-65), The Bunker Hill Company (1962-65), Cominco American, Inc. (1966-67 and 1974-75), Brinco, Ltd. (RTZ Group) (1977-78), and Equinox Resources Ltd. (1989-91). Total expenditures on the properties to date are estimated to be at least $1,500,000.
The Advance and Iroquois properties are located along the Deep Lake Trend, a northeast-striking belt of Cambrian carbonate rocks collectively designated as the Metaline Limestone. Rocks of the Deep Lake Trend have been strongly folded and faulted by numerous high-angle as well as thrust faults. As a result the Metaline Limestone has a complex outcrop pattern, with steeply overturned bedding.
Zones of brecciation are found throughout the Metaline Limestone and are often, but not always, the location of zinc and lead sulfide mineralization. These features are predominantly stratabound and have gradational, often irregular borders. Individual breccia bodies are crudely lensoid in cross section and have third dimensions that attain considerable length. The zones often occur in an enechelon, and sometimes interconnected, pattern. A variety of evidence suggests that the breccia bodies are solution collapse features controlled by favorable stratigraphy or lithologic facies.
Mineralization consists of irregular bands, lenses, and fine disseminations of sphalerite and galena accompanied by varying amounts of pyrite. The mineralization is considered to have been localized by permeable zones within and peripheral to breccia bodies created by solution collapse. The sulfide minerals are found in white dolomite that makes up the breccia matrix and fills other voids, and also as selective replacements of the host carbonate rocks. Individual deposits have irregular gradational borders and are crudely lensoidal to oval in outline. Their elongated third dimension parallels the regional strike of the host rocks, and often plunge at low angles. Cross sectional widths up to 80 feet and heights of as much as 150 feet have been noted in the more prominent zones. Lengths of mineralization vary up to 650 feet. The deposits have a tendency to occur together in an enechelon pattern over a stratigraphic interval of as much as 300 feet. Such groupings of deposits may be more or less interconnected and have composite lengths of as much as 5,000 feet. Metal values generally decrease outward thus necessitating a border to be established by economic consideration. Although individual sample values within a deposit may be as high as 20% zinc, average values for a deposit will usually range up to 7% zinc and 1% lead depending upon the “assay border” selected.
The Advance property consists of 720 acres of patented mining claims located approximately five miles east of the town of Northport. The property is reached from Northport, the nearest town, by taking the paved Deep Lake road south for four miles to the graveled Black Canyon road and thence north for three miles. The Metaline Formation is the principal rock unit to crop out on the Advance property. Previous exploration consisting of soil sampling, drilling, trenching, and tunneling has shown that several zones of low-grade, disseminated zinc mineralization occur on the property. The Advance property is without known reserves, is considered to be of an exploratory nature, and is held by the Company on a maintenance basis. We expect to undertake a technical review and commence disposition of this property in mid-2007.
The Iroquois property consists of 62 acres of patented mining claims and surface rights, and 15 unpatented mining claims containing about 300 acres. The property is reached from Northport, the nearest town, by taking the paved Deep Lake road south and east for 19 miles to the graveled Iroquois Mine Road, and thence northeast for three miles. The unpatented mining claims are held subject to a $100 per claim annual payment to the U.S. Federal government. More than 25,000 feet of drilling and approximately 2,600 feet of tunneling have shown low-grade mineralization to occur in multiple zones, extending for the entire 5,000 foot length of the property. Most of the exploration has been concentrated in one area where a mineralized zone of disseminated zinc with associated lead values has been outlined over approximately 900 feet in length and within 300 feet of the surface. The Iroquois property is without known reserves, is considered to be of an exploratory nature and is held by the Company on a maintenance basis. We expect to undertake a technical review and commence disposition of this property in mid-2007.
Oil Interests
We receive income from a 10.16% working interest in four oil wells on a lease in Sumner County, Kansas. Although the wells have now produced for more than 40 years, independent consultants calculated our 1981 share of the remaining reserves available through primary and secondary recovery to be at least 20,000 barrels. Production since 1981 has totaled approximately 10,000 barrels to our account. We do not engage in oil and gas exploration or production activities.
ITEM 3.