ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
3M's general offices, corporate research laboratories, and certain division laboratories are located in St. Paul, Minnesota. In the United States, 3M has 18 sales offices in 14 states and operates 59 manufacturing facilities in 24 states. Internationally, 3M has 196 sales offices. The company operates 79 manufacturing and converting facilities in 29 countries outside the United States.
3M owns substantially all of its physical properties. 3M's physical facilities are highly suitable for the purposes for which they were designed. Properties are often used by multiple business segments since 3M is an integrated enterprise characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation with allocations resulting from the shared utilization of assets.
TTEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
GENERAL - ------- The company and some of its subsidiaries are named defendants in a number of claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings. These include products liability claims and lawsuits involving products that the company now or formerly manufactured and sold, and environmental proceedings. Some claimants seek damages and other relief that, if granted, would require substantial expenditures.
Some of these lawsuits and proceedings raise difficult and complex factual and legal issues, and are subject to many uncertainties, such as the facts and circumstances of the particular lawsuit, the jurisdiction and forum in which the lawsuit is pending, and the applicable law. The company records liabilities in those instances where it can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss and where liability probably will arise. The company also records receivables for the probable amount of insurance that it expects to recover under the company's insurance program in those instances.
The company cannot always definitively determine possible liabilities that exceed recorded amounts related to the legal proceedings to which it is a party. There can be no certainty that the company may not ultimately incur charges, whether related to products liability, antitrust, or other litigation, environmental matters, or other actions, in excess of presently recorded liabilities. However, the company believes it unlikely, based upon the nature of the legal proceedings and its current knowledge of relevant facts and circumstances, that the possible liabilities exceeding recorded amounts would be material individually or in the aggregate to its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. With respect to products liability claims, such a conclusion about possible liabilities considers insurance coverage available for such liabilities.
While the company believes that a material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows from any such future charges is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse impact on the company. Given the uncertainty of litigation and in making future projections, the company has and will continue to periodically reexamine its estimates of probable liabilities and any associated expenses and receivables and make appropriate adjustments to such estimates based on experience and developments in the litigation. As a result, the current estimates of the potential impact on the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the proceedings and claims described in "Legal Proceedings" could change in the future.
ANTITRUST LITIGATION - --------------------- As previously reported, LePage's Inc. filed a lawsuit against the company in June 1997 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that certain marketing practices of the company violated the antitrust laws. On October 8, 1999, the jury awarded LePage's damages of $22.8 million. The company recorded a pre-tax charge of $73 million in the third quarter of 1999 related to the adverse jury verdict (the $22.8 million verdict is automatically tripled under the law) and attorneys' fees and costs. In January 2002, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the trial court's decision and, as a result, the company reversed the $73 million pre-tax charge. On February 25, 2002, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals vacated its prior ruling and ordered a re-hearing by the full court. Oral argument on the appeal was heard on October 30, 2002. The company expects the decision of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals during the first or second quarter of 2003.
Because the company believes that the trial court judgment will again be overturned, no liability has been recorded related to this matter as of December 31, 2002. If the Third Circuit Court of Appeals affirms the trial court judgment, and the United States Supreme Court declines to review the case, the company would incur a pre-tax
charge of approximately $85 million related to the adverse jury verdict plus interest. 3M would also be liable for LePage's attorneys' fees and costs, an amount that has not yet been determined by the court. After the verdict in the LePage's action, purchasers of transparent tape filed three class action lawsuits against the company in California and Pennsylvania alleging that certain marketing practices of the company violated the state or federal antitrust laws. Those actions are pending.
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION - ------------------------- The company and certain other companies have been named as defendants in a number of claims and lawsuits alleging damages for personal injuries of various types resulting from breast implants formerly manufactured by the company or a related company. The vast majority of claims against the company have been resolved. Claims against the company registered in the revised class action settlement program approved by the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (the "Revised Settlement Program") have been or will be resolved through the Revised Settlement Program. The company has confirmed that approximately 7 remaining claimants who have opted out of the Revised Settlement Program have 3M implants. The company does not consider its remaining probable liability for these confirmed cases to be material.
The company's insurers providing occurrence-based coverage initiated a declaratory judgment action in Ramsey County Minnesota against the company seeking adjudication of certain coverage and allocation issues. On February 24, 2000, the jury returned a verdict favorable to the company by rejecting all of the insurers' remaining defenses to coverage for breast implant liabilities and costs.
The trial court's rulings in post verdict motions were generally favorable to the company. The court awarded the company prejudgment interest on amounts owing by insurers, including a portion of the company's reasonable attorneys fees in connection with the insurance coverage litigation. Exact amounts cannot yet be determined. The court filed the judgment on April 16, 2001, and entered judgment on May 16, 2001, thus substantially concluding this matter in the trial court. The company and several insurers appealed the judgment to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. On September 24, 2002, the Minnesota Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the trial court's judgment. The Court of Appeals confirmed coverage but allocated the coverage so as to reduce a substantial portion of the amounts owing by insurers for losses and defense costs as reflected in the trial court judgment. The Court of Appeals also reversed the company's award of attorneys' fees referenced above. On December 17, 2002, the Minnesota Supreme Court granted the company's Petition for Review permitting the company to appeal the Court of Appeal's decision. The company believes that it is likely to obtain relief in the Minnesota Supreme Court. If the Minnesota Supreme Court does not grant relief as anticipated, the company could be effectively deprived of significant and potentially material insurance coverage for breast implant claims.
The company also initiated an arbitration proceeding in London, England, to recover insurance coverage for some of its breast implant liability and costs from certain claims-made insurance carriers. A hearing was conducted in January 2003 and the arbitration is expected to be completed in the second half of 2003. If the panel decides the coverage question in the company's favor, it will then determine the amount of coverage in a subsequent proceeding.
As of December 31, 2002, the company had receivables for insurance recoveries related to the breast implant matter of $339 million, representing settled but yet to be received amounts ($16 million), as well as amounts contested by the insurance carriers in the Minnesota litigation and the London arbitration ($323 million). Various factors could affect the timing and amount of insurance proceeds to be received under the company's various insurance policies, including (i) the outcome of occurrence insurance litigation in the courts of Minnesota (as discussed above); (ii) the outcome of the arbitration with claims-made insurers in London; and (iii) the extent to which insurers may become insolvent in the future. There can be no absolute assurance that the company will collect all amounts recorded as being probable of recovery from its insurers.
RESPIRATOR/MASK/ASBESTOS LITIGATION - ----------------------------------- For more than 20 years, the company has successfully defended and resolved the claims of over 200,000 individual claimants alleging injuries from occupational dust exposures. The vast majority of the lawsuits and claims resolved by the company alleged use of some of the company's mask and respirator products and sought damages from the company and other defendants for alleged personal injury from work place exposures to asbestos or, less frequently, silica and other occupational dust, found in products manufactured by other defendants. The remaining claimants generally alleged personal injury from occupational exposure to asbestos from unspecified products claimed to have been manufactured by the company or other defendants and/or from specialty products containing asbestos manufactured by the company and/or other defendants.
The company's vigorous defense of this litigation has resulted in: (i) jury verdicts for the company in two of three cases tried to verdict; (ii) dismissals of lawsuits without any payment by the company; and (iii) an average settlement value of less than $1,000 per claimant for all of the claims and lawsuits that the company has resolved. In many of these lawsuits and claims, the company is named as a defendant with multiple co-defendants where no product the company manufactured is involved or where the company is ultimately determined not to have manufactured the products identified by the plaintiffs.
As previously reported, in October 2001, the company defended at trial, in the Circuit Court of Holmes County, Mississippi, plaintiffs' claims that a 3M respirator and mask did not protect them against contracting certain asbestos- related diseases allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos-containing products manufactured by other defendants. The case against the company initially involved six plaintiffs whose claims were consolidated for trial. The court dismissed one plaintiff's case just before trial, and a second plaintiff abandoned his case before it was submitted to the jury. On October 26, 2001 the jury returned verdicts against all defendants in favor of the plaintiffs, four of whom had claims against the company. The jury awarded the plaintiffs $25 million each in compensatory damages. The jury denied plaintiffs' request for punitive damages. Based on the jury's findings of percentage of fault attributable to each defendant, the company's share of the total of the four verdicts against it is $22.5 million. The company can provide no assurance at this time about the ability of the other two co-defendants to pay their respective shares of any ultimate judgment or whether a co-defendant's inability to pay will cause a reallocation of the liability for damages among the remaining solvent defendants under state law. One of the co-defendants, ACandS, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Another co-defendant, Dresser Industries, is a subsidiary of Halliburton Company, which announced on December 18, 2002 a global settlement agreement of all personal injury asbestos claims against Halliburton Company and its subsidiaries. The company does not know at this time the impact of the settlement agreement on the judgment in the Mississippi case against Dresser Industries. Judgment was entered on January 30, 2002. The trial court denied the company's post-trial motions in a decision on August 21, 2002, and the company filed a notice of appeal with the Mississippi Supreme Court. Because the company believes that the judgment ultimately will be overturned, no liability has been recorded related to this matter as of December 31, 2002. If any damages are ultimately assessed against the company, the company expects a substantial portion of such damages to be covered by the company's product liability insurance.
As of December 31, 2002, the company is a named defendant, with multiple co-defendants, in numerous lawsuits in various courts that purport to represent approximately 45,000 individual claimants. The vast majority of these current claimants allege use of some of the company's mask and respirator products and seek damages from the company and other defendants for alleged personal injury from work place exposures to asbestos or, less frequently, silica and other occupational dust, found in products manufactured by other defendants. The remaining claimants generally allege personal injury from occupational exposure to asbestos from unspecified products claimed to have been manufactured by the company or other defendants and/or from specialty products containing asbestos manufactured by the company and/or other defendants. The company settled an unusually large number of pending claims during 2002 and thus had a substantial reduction in the number of
open claims - from approximately 80,000 claimants at the end of 2001 to approximately 45,000 at the end of 2002.
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the company was served with complaints identifying approximately 6,000 claimants in Mississippi. We believe that this activity is related to tort reform legislation adopted in Mississippi in November 2002 that went into effect on January 1, 2003, and that the new cases were filed in anticipation of the new law. We expect to see an additional increase in Mississippi claims in the first quarter as there is often a delay between the filing of complaints and service of the complaints on the company.
Plaintiffs have asserted specific dollar claims for damages in only about one- sixth of the 7,404 lawsuits that were pending against the company at the end of 2002 in all jurisdictions. A majority of states restrict or prohibit specifying damages in tort cases such as these, and most of the remaining jurisdictions do not require such specification. In those cases in which plaintiffs choose to assert specific dollar amounts in their complaints, brought in states that permit such pleading, the amounts claimed are typically not meaningful as an indicator of the company's potential liability. This is because (a) the amounts claimed typically bear no relation to the level of plaintiff's injury, if any; (b) the complaints nearly always assert claims against multiple defendants with the typical complaint asserting claims against an average of 88 different defendants, the damages alleged are not attributed to individual defendants, and a defendant's share of liability may turn on the law of joint and several liability, which can vary by state, and by the amount of fault a jury allocates to each defendant if a case is ultimately tried before a jury; (c) many cases are filed against the company even though the plaintiffs did not use any of the company's products and, ultimately, are withdrawn or dismissed without any payment; and (d) many cases are brought on behalf of plaintiffs who have not suffered any medical injury, and, ultimately, are resolved without any payment or a payment that is a small fraction of the damages initially claimed. Of the 1,274 pending cases in which purported damage amounts are specified in the complaints, 579 cases involve claims of $100,000 or less, 177 cases involve claims between $100,000 and $3 million (37 of these cases also allege punitive damages of $250,000 and 42 of these cases also allege punitive damages of $2.5 million), 117 cases involve claims of $7.5 million (with an equal amount of punitive damages), 365 cases involve claims of $10 million (316 of which also allege an equal amount in punitive damages), 3 cases involve claims of $15 million, 2 cases involve claims of $20 million, and 31 cases involve claims of $50 million (5 of which also allege punitive damages of $5 million). Some complaints allege that the compensatory and punitive damages are at least the amounts specified. As noted above, the company has more than 20 years of experience in defending litigations of this type, and has to date resolved the claims of over 200,000 plaintiffs. The cumulative average settlement amount is less than $1,000 per claimant. Based on this experience and for the other reasons noted above the company believes that the damage amounts specified in complaints are not a meaningful factor in any assessment of the company's potential liability.
As of December 31, 2002, the company had estimated accrued liabilities of approximately $161 million for respirator/mask asbestos related claims, a substantial portion of which the company expects to be covered by its product liability insurance. This amount represents the company's best estimate of the amount to cover the cost and expense of resolving recently settled, current and probable future respirator/mask asbestos related claims. The company also had receivables for expected insurance recoveries of approximately $264 million. Various factors could affect the timing and amount of proceeds to be received under the company's various insurance policies, including (i) the timing of payments made in settlement of claims; (ii) delays in or avoidance of payment by insurers; and (iii) the extent to which insurers may become insolvent in the future. There can be no absolute assurance that the company will collect all amounts recorded as being probable of recovery from its insurers.
The difference between the accrued liability and insurance receivable represents the time delay between payment of claims and receipt of insurance reimbursements. Because of the lag time between settlement and payment of a claim, no meaningful conclusions may be drawn from quarterly changes in the amount of receivables for
expected insurance recoveries and the quarterly changes in the number of claimants at the end of each quarter.
The company's current estimate of its probable liabilities and associated expenses for respirator/mask/asbestos litigation is based on facts and circumstances existing at this time. Recent developments in the mix of newly filed respirator/mask lawsuits (some increase in the proportion of silica- related claims) and the defense costs associated with the company's continued aggressive defense strategy will be closely monitored by the company in the near term. Additional developments may occur that could affect the company's estimate of probable liabilities and associated expenses. These developments include, but are not limited to, (i) significant changes in the number of future claims, (ii) significant changes in the average cost of resolving claims, (iii) significant changes in the legal costs of defending these claims and in maintaining trial readiness, (iv) changes in the nature of claims received, (v) changes in the law and procedure applicable to these claims, (vi) financial viability of other co-defendants and insurers, and (vii) other unknown variables. The company cannot determine the impact of these potential developments on the current estimate of its probable liabilities and associated expenses.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - --------------------- The company's operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations enforceable by foreign, federal, state and local authorities, and private parties in the United States and abroad, including those pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, toxic substances, and the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations provide, under certain circumstances, a basis for the remediation of contamination, as well as personal injury and property damage claims. The company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations, defending potential personal injury and property damage claims, and modifying its business operations in light of its environmental responsibilities. In its effort to satisfy its environmental responsibilities and comply with environmental laws and regulations, the company has established, and periodically updates, policies relating to environmental standards of performance for its operations worldwide.
Under certain environmental laws, including the United States Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and similar state laws, the company may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of environmental contamination at current or former facilities and at off-site locations. The company has identified numerous locations, most of which are in the United States, at which it may have some liability. Amounts expensed for environmental remediation activities were not material at these locations, nor have there been material changes in the recorded liabilities for environmental matters.
Liabilities for estimated costs of environmental remediation are, depending on the site, based primarily upon internal or third-party environmental studies, and estimates as to the number, participation level and financial viability of any other potentially responsible parties, the extent of the contamination and the nature of required remedial actions. Recorded liabilities are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. The company expects that the amounts recorded will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, currently ranging up to 30 years. As of December 31, 2002, the company had recorded liabilities of $37 million for estimated environmental investigatory and remediation costs based upon an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to each individual site.
It is often difficult to estimate the cost of environmental compliance and remediation and potential claims given the uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of applicable environmental laws and regulations, the extent of environmental contamination and the existence of alternate cleanup methods. The company's current assessment of the probable liabilities and associated expenses related to such environmental matters is based on the facts and circumstances known at this time. New developments may occur that could affect the company's assessment. These developments include, but are not limited to, (i)
changes in the information available regarding the environmental impact of the company's operations and products; (ii) changes in environmental regulations or enforcement policies, including efforts to recover natural resource damages; (iii) new and evolving analytical and remediation techniques; (iv) success in allocating liability to other potentially responsible parties; and (v) financial viability of other potentially responsible parties and third-party indemnitors. The company cannot determine the impact of these potential developments on the current estimate of its probable liabilities and associated expenses.
The company has been voluntarily cooperating with ongoing reviews by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and international agencies of the possible environmental and health effects of perfluorooctanyl chemistry. As previously announced, the company has been phasing out its production of such compounds. With respect to one such compound the EPA is currently considering possible regulatory action under its statutory authority relating to compounds that may pose possible human health effects. The company recently confirmed to the EPA its intent to continue its ongoing health and environmental investigation and assessment of this compound. As a result of its phase-out decision, the company no longer manufactures that compound except that a subsidiary produces limited quantities for its own industrial use. The company cannot predict what regulatory action, if any, may be taken regarding some or all of such compounds or the consequences of any such action.
On September 30, 2002, a former employee filed an amended complaint against the company in the Circuit Court of Morgan County, Alabama seeking unstated compensatory and punitive damages and alleging that the plaintiffs suffered fear, increased risk and sub clinical injuries from exposure to perfluorooctanyl chemistry at or near the company's Decatur, Alabama manufacturing facility. The complaint also alleges that the company acted improperly with respect to disclosures to workers concerning such chemistry. Recently, the plaintiffs sought to add as plaintiffs another former employee, a current employee and their minor children. The company believes that these allegations have no merit and is vigorously defending these claims.
The company has agreed to enter into a consent agreement with the State of New York Department of Environmental Conservation for alleged violations of the New York air emissions regulations. The proposed agreement calls for a penalty of $212,000, a portion of which will be used to improve processes at the company's Tonawanda, New York manufacturing facility.
As previously reported, the company entered into a voluntary agreement with the EPA under both an "Agreement for TSCA Compliance" and the EPA's Incentives for Self Policing Policy. The company voluntarily conducted an audit under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) of its facilities and business units and to identify studies that under current EPA guidelines could be potentially subject to notification under TSCA section 8(e). The company has reached an agreement in principle with the EPA under which it would pay $222,000 in penalties in connection with the first two phases of this audit relating to perfluorooctanyl chemistry studies. The third phase, relating to this and other chemistries, is expected to be completed in early 2003.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
None in the quarter ended December 31, 2002.
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET PRICE OF 3M'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS.
At January 31, 2003, there were approximately 125,216 shareholders of record. 3M's stock is listed on the New York, Pacific, Chicago and Swiss stock exchanges. Cash dividends declared and paid totaled $.62 per share for each quarter of 2002, and $.60 per share for each quarter of 2001. Stock price comparisons follow.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be identified by the use of words like "plan," "expect," "aim," "believe," "project," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "will," "should," "could" and other expressions that indicate future events and trends. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expenditures and financial results, are forward- looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those projected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the following:
* The effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic conditions. The company operates in more than 60 countries and derives more than half of its revenues from outside the United States. The company's business may be affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond its control, such as downturns in economic activity in a specific country or region; social, political or labor conditions in a specific country or region; or potential adverse foreign tax consequences.
* Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates may affect the company's ability to realize projected growth rates in its sales and net earnings and its results of operations. Because the company derives more than half its revenues from outside the United States, its ability to realize projected growth rates in sales and net earnings and results of operations could be adversely affected if the United States dollar strengthens significantly against foreign currencies.
* The company's growth objectives are largely dependent on the timing and market acceptance of its new product offerings, including its ability to renew its pipeline of new products and to bring those products to market. This ability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to: identify viable new products; obtain adequate intellectual property protection; gain market acceptance of new products, or successfully complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals. As with any pharmaceutical under development, there are substantial risks and uncertainties in the process of development and regulatory review. There are no guarantees that products will receive regulatory approvals or prove to be commercially successful.
* The company's future results are subject to fluctuations in the costs of purchased components and materials due to market demand, currency exchange risks, shortages and other factors. The company depends on various components and materials for the manufacturing of its products. Although the company has not experienced any difficulty in obtaining components and materials, it is possible that any of its supplier relationships could be terminated in the future. Any sustained interruption in the company's receipt of adequate supplies could have a material adverse effect on the company. In addition, while the company has a process to minimize volatility in component and material pricing, no assurance can be given that the company will be able to successfully manage price fluctuations due to market demand, currency risks, or shortages, or that future price fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on the company.
* The possibility that acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances may not meet sales and/or profit expectations. As part of the company's strategy for growth, the company has made and may continue to make acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances. However, there can be no absolute assurance that these will be completed or beneficial to the company.
* The company is the subject of various legal proceedings. The current estimates of the potential impact on the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for its legal proceedings and claims are predictions made by the company about the future and should be considered forward-looking statements. These estimates could change in the future. For a more detailed discussion of the legal proceedings involving the company, see the discussion of "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3