Item 2. Properties
Office Space Leases.
Our executive office space lease is month to month and is for approximately 1,200 square feet at 3355 Bee Caves Road, Suite 608, Austin, Texas 78746. The monthly lease cost is $2,500.
Portfolio.
As of December 31, 2015, we had 37 gross and 9 net wells, in production. Our portfolio of producing assets now includes the Eagle Ford property, the Fairway property, the Bootleg Canyon Ellenberger Field, the Adams-Baggett Gas Field, the Chapman Ranch, the Morgan Property, and the Clear Water Wolfberry Resource Play. All of the Company's assets are located in the United States.
Proved commercial accumulations of hydrocarbons now occur in multiple target zones at depths ranging from 4,700 to 13,100 feet, with the majority of proved reserves being located on properties in the Eagleford and Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico. As we continue to drill available locations on its current properties and add properties that are accessible to us through our established deal flow pipeline, we anticipate an accelerated pace toward oil-weighted production and the addition of new reserves.
The Eagle Ford Property, Lavaca and Gonzales County, Texas
In February 2015, as a result of the dissolution of the proposed business combination with Lucas, Victory received wellbore assignments for non-operated working interest in five (5) gross wells, which we refer to as the Penn Virginia Wells, located in the Eagle Ford Field in Gonzales and Lavaca County, Texas. During the quarter ended March 31, 2015, Victory participated in the successful development of these five wells, as operated by Penn Virginia Oil & Gas LP. The properties include the Dingo #1, #2 and #3, in which we received a 3.276% working interest and a 2.457% net revenue interest, and the Platypus Hunter #2 and #3, in which we retain a 1.481% working interest and a 1.114% net revenue interest, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, the Penn Virginia wells were producing approximately 23 net BOEPD, comprised of 53% oil.
As of December 31, 2015, the Eagle Ford Property has 29.9 MBOE of recoverable reserves, or 47% of the Company's total proved producing reserves.
The Lightnin' Property, Glascock County, Texas
On June 5, 2014, Victory, through its controlling interest and as managing partner in Aurora, sold certain leasehold properties and all of Aurora’s related interests in approximately 640 gross and 128 net mineral acres located in Glascock County, Texas, which we refer to as the Lightnin Assets, to an unrelated third party, which we refer to as the Lightnin Buyer, for approximately $4 million in cash gross to Aurora. The sale was made pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of April 30, 2014 by and among the working interest owner/sellers, including Aurora, and the Lightnin' Buyer. The effective date for the transaction was April 1, 2014. Aurora held a 20% working and 15% net revenue interest in the Lightnin' Assets which were operated by a third party. Estimated daily net production to Aurora's interest was approximately 36 BOEPD (barrels of oil equivalent per day) at the time of the sale from the 3 producing wells. We recognized a gain on the sale of the Lightnin' Assets of $2,160,099 in our consolidated statement of operations as of December 31, 2014.
The Bootleg Canyon Property, Pecos County, Texas
Acquired in 2011, this 4,000+ acre lease is located in Pecos County, Texas. There are now two producing Ellenberger oil wells and one producing Connell gas well on this 3D seismic-controlled property.
During the year ended December 31, 2015, gross production for the two oil wells (University 6 #1 and #2) was just over 48 MBO.
The gas well (University 7 #1) spud on December 23, 2012 and went into completion on March 6, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2015, gross production was 2,431 Mcf, or 7 Mcf per day.
The operator of the Bootleg Canyon Property wells currently believes the University 6 #1 and 6 #2 are subject to water drive, and as a result, has restricted the flow of hydrocarbons to avoid excess water production. In addition, unstable line pressure in the University 7 #1 well has caused a significant decrease in year over year production.
The acreage held currently provides 160-acre spacing between wells and thus an opportunity to drill additional wells on the prospect acreage. It is estimated there may be ten total well locations on the property. Our company, through its interest in Aurora, holds a 5 % working interest and a 3.75 % net revenue interest.
The Bootleg Canyon Property is estimated to hold 7.7 MBOE of reserves, or 12% of the Company's total proved producing reserves.
Development capital required for the remaining ten well locations is estimated to be $870,650.
The Adams-Baggett Property, Crockett County, Texas
Our company, via its partnership interest in Aurora, received its first production revenue from this field in March of 2008 and continues to receive income today. Canyon sandstones are the primary hydrocarbon target within this prospect and they form a prolific low-permeability gas play located in the Val Verde Basin of Southwest Texas. Natural gas from the Canyon Sandstone generally receives a premium in price above the standard market price for natural gas due to its higher BTU content per cubic foot. In addition, each of the Adams-Baggett wells have historically displayed an established, well behaved decline trend of 4.5% per year.
The Canyon Sandstone gas play is part of the large Adams-Baggett Canyon Sandstone gas field. The Canyon Sandstone formation is found at a depth of 4,300 feet to 4,900 feet. The average life span of a Canyon Sandstone gas well is approximately 30 years.
Aurora Energy Partners holds a working interest and an overriding royalty interest in nine wells; 100% WI, 74% NRI, and a 1.563% ORRI in seven wells, and a 50% WI with 38% NRI in two wells in the Adams-Baggett property.
Reserve estimates completed for the year ended December 31, 2015 indicate the Adams-Baggett Property holds 23.1 MBOE of reserves, or 36% of the Company's total proved producing reserves.
Fairway, Howard County, Texas
On June 30, 2014, Aurora completed the initial closing, which we refer to as the First Closing, of a purchase of a 10% working and 7.5% net revenue interest in the proved and unproved Permian Basin Fairway Operations from Target Energy Limited, which we refer to as TELA, for an initial payment of $2,491,888 in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. We refer to this acquisition as the Fairway Acquisition, which was undertaken pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 30, 2014 between Aurora and TELA, which we refer to as the Fairway PSA. On the First Closing, TELA assigned certain assets in its Permian Basin Fairway Operation, which we refer to as the First Closing Assets, to Aurora. The second closing of the Fairway Acquisition, which we refer to as the Second Closing, was planned to follow the completion of curative title work and was expected in August 2014. At the Second Closing, TELA was to assign the remainder of its assets in its Permian Basin Fairway Operations to Aurora. The Effective Date for the transfer of all assets was May 1, 2014. The acquisition of the First Closing Assets included 7 producing wells and 4 wells completed and awaiting production start-up.
The acquisition of the First Closing Assets included seven producing wells and four wells completed and awaiting production start-up. On September 23, 2014, we mutually agreed to the termination of the Fairway PSA. Pursuant to the termination of the Fairway PSA, the Second Closing did not occur as the result of certain title impairment issues that were uncovered during the due diligence process and that were not remedied to the satisfaction of our company and TELA. No penalties or payments were due as a result of the termination of the Fairway PSA.
As of December 31, 2015, the Fairway Property has 2.5 MBOE of recoverable reserves, or 4% of the Company's total proved producing reserves.
Clearwater Wolfberry Resource Play, Howard County, Texas
In April 2011, our company, through its ownership in Aurora acquired a 1.5% working interest and a 1.125% net revenue interest in 3,186 gross acres known as the Clearwater Property. At the time of the acquisition this property contained two producing wells and a third exploration well was in progress. At year-end 2011, there were three producing oil wells on this property. During February 1, 2012 we assigned approximately 944 gross acres of mineral rights related to the Hamlin 26 and Hamlin 24 tracts to another operator in exchange for an overriding royalty interest proportional to the working interest held by us. In exchange for the assignment, we retained a 0.375% overriding royalty interest in the 944 gross acres. We still own a 1.5% working interest and a 1.125% net revenue interest in the remaining 2,242 acres.
The Clearwater Wolfberry Play is estimated to hold 0.7 MBOE of reserves, or 1% of the Company's total proved producing reserves.
The Chapman Ranch Property, Nueces County, Texas
Our company through its interest in Aurora acquired this prospect in April 2012. The prospect is located in south central Nueces County, Texas. The prospect wells are a conventional drilling play targeting the Frio Sands formation.
The first well was drilled and completed in July 2012. Multiple pay zones were present in the well-logs; however, oil and gas production from the target formation was not of a commercial quantity. A second well location is up-dip of the first well site and is in a different fault block.
This second well, the Chapman 4501, spud on December 22, 2013 and reached total depth of 7,800 feet on January 7, 2014. The well was perforated in several sections and was successfully flow tested from the Frio Sands on January 21, 2014 at 67 barrels of oil and 10 Mcf of dry gas per day.
On February 10, 2015, we received a recommendation from the operator to plug and abandon the Chapman 4501, citing high recompletion costs and poor reservoir behavior. We concurred with the operator's proposal and agreed to bear the prorata share of the plugging and surface reclamation expenses. In May of 2015, the operator commenced with the plug and abandonment activities.
Our company through its interest in Aurora holds a 5 % working interest and a 3.75 % net revenue interest.
Developed and Undeveloped Lease Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information regarding developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage held by Aurora as of December 31, 2015. “Developed Acreage” refers to acreage on which wells have been drilled or completed to a point that would permit production of oil and natural gas in commercial quantities. “Undeveloped Acreage” refers to acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit production of oil and natural gas in commercial quantities whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves. As detailed below, Victory Energy Corporation only holds wellbore interests in the Eagleford properties, and thus does not hold an acreage position.
(1) Only wellbore working interests were conveyed to us in connection with our prior agreements with Lucas.
Internal Controls over Reserve Estimates, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Our policies regarding internal controls over reserve estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance, and for reserves to be prepared by an independent third party reserve engineering firm and reviewed by certain members of senior management, specifically our CEO.
Estimates of our reserves were outsourced to Cambrian Management and prepared by their independent reserve engineer, Mr. James Nicholson, who specializes in preparing reservoir studies, reserve estimates, and property evaluations. Mr. Nicholson, a Registered Professional Engineer, is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, and a former chairman of the Permian Basin Oil & Gas Recovery Conference.
The objective of this study, provided on March 1, 2016, was to estimate reserves and value for properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2015. The reserve study for the year ended December 31, 2015 represents 100% of the Company's year-end 2015 proved reserves, and 100% of the Company's pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at 10%.
Data furnished for this analysis included well drilling reports, logs, test data, operating costs and revenue statements. Production data were obtained from the Texas Railroad Commission records and was supplemented as needed by data from the Operators.
All estimated reserves contained in the report are expressed as gross and net reserves on all properties. Net reserves represent those reserves attributable to the Company. Values for reserves are expressed in terms of future net revenue and the present worth of future net revenue. Future net revenue is defined as the revenue accruing to the Company’s interests from production and the sale of the estimated net reserves after deducting production taxes and operating expenses.
No plugging costs or salvage values were considered in the evaluation, nor was any consideration given to Federal Income tax.
The properties evaluated for the analysis have proved developed producing (PDP) reserves and proved undeveloped reserves (PUD) as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). The reserve guidelines as published by the SPE in March 2007 in the Petroleum Management System (SPE-PRMS) were used for this analysis. Production forecasts were made using methods appropriate for the individual property with the majority of forecasts being made with decline curve analysis.
Cash flow for the individual well cases were calculated until the monthly cash flow becomes negative; i.e., costs exceed revenue and the well is not economic. The individual cases were summed to produce the total value.
Using SEC guidelines in place for 2015, the gas and oil prices for the analysis were set at the average priced received on the “first-day-of-the-month” for the last 12 months, adjusted for appropriate differentials. The “benchmark” prices are $50.28 per barrel and $2.58 per MMBTU, as estimated by Ryder Scott. For each well, or case, the actual monthly prices received during the last 12 months were compared to NYMEX averages prices for the month. For each well a differential to the average was estimated. These differentials were applied to the “benchmark” prices and the resulting values were used for the future cash flow estimates. All prices were held constant per SEC guidelines.
Actual 2015 lease operating costs (LOE) for the properties were furnished for this review. The monthly costs were averaged for each well to determine a $/month per well operating cost. Non-recurring costs were omitted. Per SEC guidelines the operating costs are held constant for the life of the wells.
Drill and complete costs for the PUD well were based on estimates provided by the Operator.
The value estimated in this report is based on the assumption that the properties are not adversely affected by the existence of any hazardous substances, detrimental environmental conditions, or changes to regulations.
The study was completed using industry-accepted principles of engineering and evaluation that are predicated on established scientific concepts. However, the application of such principles involves extensive judgment and assumptions and is subject to changes in performance data, technical knowledge, economic conditions and statutory provisions. Consequently, reserve estimates and future value are furnished with the understanding that actual performance of the wells could vary from that as predicted.
Our independent consultants, including a geologist and an oil and gas operations professional have reviewed and approved the reserve report which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
At December 31, 2015, our proved developed reserves accounted for 90% of total reserves. 58% of the total reserves are attributable to oil, while 42% are attributable to natural gas and other liquids. The following table sets forth our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves for the 37 wells and the PV-10 of such reserves as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure
PV-10 is derived from the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. PV-10 is a computation of the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows on a pre-tax basis. PV-10 is equal to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows at the applicable date, before deducting future income taxes, discounted at 10 %. We believe that the presentation of PV-10 is relevant and useful to investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated net proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. We use this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil and natural gas properties. PV-10, however, is not a substitute for the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows. Our PV-10 measure and the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows do not purport to represent the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves.
The following table provides a reconciliation of PV-10 to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows at December 31, 2015 and 2014 for our company:
Estimated Future Net Revenues
The following table sets forth the estimated future net revenues, excluding derivative contracts, from proved reserves, the present value of those net revenues (PV-10) and the standardized measure values at December 31, 2015 and 2014 for our company:
Productive Wells
Productive wells are producing wells or wells capable of production. This does not include water source wells, water injection wells or water disposal wells. Productive wells do not include any wells in the process of being drilled and completed that are not yet capable of production, but does include old productive wells that are currently shut-in, because they are still capable of production. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and natural gas wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 for our company.
A gross total of eleven producing wells were added to our portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2015. The change in producing wells reflects the assignment received by us for Eagle Ford properties in the first quarter of 2015, as well as overriding royalty interests in six gross wells completed during 2015.
Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves in 2015 and 2014
Our proved reserves in 2015 and 2014 were based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate data, utilizing well established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and consistent results.
Data used in these integrated assessments included information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure information, production test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained through indirect measurements, including high-quality 2-D and 3-D seismic data, calibrated with available well control. Surface geological information was also utilized in the preparation of the data where applicable. The tools used to interpret the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data analysis packages.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, our proved undeveloped reserves included 1 prospect (University 6 #3) and 2 prospects (the Cotter 6 #2 and the University 6 #3), respectively. As we are not the operator of these properties, we cannot predict the timing of the development of the properties. The total quantity of proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 7.32 MBOE and 7.32 MBOE, respectively.
The Company did not realize any material changes to its proved undeveloped reserves, nor did the Company convert any proved undeveloped reserves to prove producing reserves through investments or development. No material amounts of proved undeveloped reserves have remained undeveloped for five years or more.
Oil and Natural Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our production volume, and average sales and production costs for the periods indicated for our Company. The Company is subject to any delivery commitments or contracts as related to the production, marketing and sale of oil and gas.
Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
The following table sets forth our drilling activity for the periods indicated.
As of December 31, 2015, the Company was not involved in any oil and gas development activities, including the drilling and completion of wells, waterflood installation, pressure maintenance operations, or any other related activity of material importance.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to substantially all of our active properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Prior to acquiring undeveloped properties, we perform a title investigation that is thorough but less vigorous than that conducted prior to drilling, which is consistent with standard practice in the oil and natural gas industry. Before we commence drilling operations, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects before proceeding with operations. We have performed a thorough title examination with respect to substantially all of our active properties.
Item 3.