Item 2.
Properties .
GENERAL -
Norfolk Southern Corporation ( Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980 , under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia .
On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board [STB]).
Effective
Dec. 31, 1990 , Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway or NSR).
Effective Sept. 1, 1998 , NW was merged with and into Norfolk Southern Railway.
As of Dec. 31, 2004 , all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway was owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
Through a limited liability company, Norfolk Southern and CSX Corporation (CSX) jointly own Conrail Inc. (Conrail), whose primary subsidiary is Consolidated Rail Corporation (CRC).
Norfolk Southern has a 58% economic and 50% voting interest in the jointly owned entity, and CSX has the remainder of the economic and voting interests.
CRC owns and operates certain properties (the Shared Assets Areas) for the joint and exclusive benefit of NSR and CSX Transportation Inc. (CSXT).
On June 1, , NSR and CSXT, began operating separate portions of Conrail’s rail routes and assets.
As described below, on August 27, 2004 , NS, CSX and Conrail completed a reorganization of Conrail.
Norfolk Southern makes available free of charge through its website, www.nscorp.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Additionally, Norfolk Southern’s corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters, code of ethics and code of ethical conduct for senior financial officers are available on the company’s website and in print to any shareholder who requests them.
Unless otherwise indicated, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
CONRAIL CORPORATE REORGANIZATION -
On August 27, 2004 , NS, CSX and Conrail completed a reorganization of Conrail (Conrail Corporate Reorganization), which established direct ownership and control by NSR and CSX Transportation, Inc. (CSXT) of two former CRC subsidiaries, Pennsylvania Lines LLC (PRR) and New York Central Lines LLC (NYC), respectively.
Prior to the Conrail Corporate Reorganization, NSR operated the routes and assets of PRR and CSXT operated the routes and assets of NYC, each in accordance with operating and lease agreements.
Pursuant to the Conrail Corporate Reorganization, the operating and lease agreements were terminated and PRR and NYC were merged into NSR and CSXT, respectively.
The reorganization did not involve the Shared Assets Areas and did not affect the competitive rail service provided in the Shared Assets Areas.
Conrail continues to own, manage and operate the Shared Assets Areas as previously approved by the STB.
In connection with the Conrail Corporate Reorganization, NS, CSX and Conrail obtained a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding certain tax matters, and the STB approved the transaction.
As a part of the Conrail Corporate Reorganization, Conrail restructured its existing
K3
unsecured and secured public indebtedness, with the consent of Conrail’s debtholders .
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAILROAD OPERATIONS -
As of Dec. 31, 2004 , NS’ railroads operated approximately 21,300 miles of road.
The miles operated, which includes leased lines between Cincinnati , Ohio , and Chattanooga , Tennessee , and trackage
rights over property owned by North Carolina Railway Company, were as follows:
NS' railroads carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast, East and Midwest and via interchange with other rail carriers, to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada .
They also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports.
Atlantic ports served by NS include: the Ports of New York/New Jersey; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/ Camden, New Jersey; Baltimore, Maryland; Wilmington, Delaware; Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida.
Gulf Coast ports served include Mobile , Alabama and New Orleans , Louisiana .
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast, Northeast, Mid-Atlantic region and Midwest .
Chicago, Norfolk, Detroit, Atlanta, Metropolitan New York City, Jacksonville, Kansas City (Missouri), Baltimore, Buffalo, Charleston, Cleveland, Columbus, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Toledo, Greensboro, Charlotte and Savannah are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system.
In addition, haulage arrangements with connecting carriers allow NS' railroads to provide single-line service to and from additional markets, including haulage provided by Florida East Coast Railway Company to serve southern and eastern Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale; and haulage provided by The Kansas City Southern Railway Company to provide transcontinental intermodal service via a connection in Dallas, Texas with the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company.
Service is provided to New England , including the Port of Boston , via haulage, trackage rights and interline
arrangements with Canadian Pacific Railway Company and Guilford Transportation Industries.
The system's lines also reach many individual industries, electric generating facilities, mines (in western Virginia , eastern Kentucky , southern and northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania ), distribution centers, transload facilities and other businesses located in smaller communities in its service area.
The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the New York City area to Chicago (via Allentown and Pittsburgh ); Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati , Chattanooga and Atlanta ); Appalachian coal fields of Virginia , West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk , Virginia and Sandusky , Ohio ; Cleveland to Kansas City ; and Knoxville to Chattanooga .
Chicago, Memphis, Sidney/Salem, Illinois, New Orleans, Kansas City, Buffalo, St. Louis and Meridian, MS, are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
K4
Triple Crown Operations
- Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), NS’ intermodal subsidiary, offers door-to-door intermodal service using RoadRailer ® equipment and domestic containers.
RoadRailer ® units are enclosed vans that can be pulled over highways in tractor-trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives.
TCSC provides intermodal service in major traffic corridors, including those between the Midwest and the Northeast, the Midwest and the Southeast, and the Midwest and Texas .
The following table sets forth certain statistics relating to NS railroads' operations for the past 5 years:
Includes $107 million of costs for a voluntary separation program, which added 1.6 percentage points to the ratio.
Includes $165 million of costs for early retirement and separation programs, which added 2.7 percentage points to the ratio.
RAILWAY OPERATING REVENUES -
NS' total railway operating revenues were $7.3 billion in 2004.
See the financial information by traffic segment in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
COAL
TRAFFIC
-
Coal, coke and iron ore -- most of which is bituminous coal -- is NS' railroads' largest commodity group as measured by revenues.
The railroads handled a total of 181 million tons in 2004, most of which originated on NS' lines in West Virginia , Virginia , Pennsylvania and Kentucky .
Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore accounted for about 24% of NS' total railway operating revenues in 2004.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 2004 was 38 million tons.
Of this total, 13 million tons (including coastwise traffic) moved through Norfolk , Virginia , 4 million tons moved through the Baltimore Terminal, 14 million tons moved to various docks on the Ohio River , and 7 million tons moved to various Lake Erie ports.
Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states east of the Mississippi River .
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
GENERAL MERCHANDISE
TRAFFIC
-
General merchandise traffic is composed of five major commodity groupings: automotive; chemicals; metals and construction; agriculture, consumer products and government; and paper, clay and forest products.
The automotive group includes finished vehicles for BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Honda, Isuzu, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Saab, Subaru, Suzuki, Toyota and Volkswagen, and auto
K5
parts for Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Mercedes-Benz and Toyota .
The chemicals group includes sulfur and related chemicals, petroleum products, chlorine and bleaching compounds, plastics, rubber, industrial chemicals, chemical wastes and municipal wastes.
The metals and construction group includes steel, aluminum products, machinery, scrap metals, cement, aggregates, bricks and minerals.
The agriculture, consumer products and government group includes soybeans, wheat, corn, fertilizer, animal and poultry feed, food oils, flour, beverages, canned goods, sweeteners, consumer products, ethanol and items for the military.
The paper, clay and forest products group includes lumber and wood products, pulp board and paper products, wood fibers, wood pulp, scrap paper and clay.
In 2004, 141 million tons of general merchandise freight, or approximately 67% of total general merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated online.
The balance of general merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers at interterritorial
gateways.
The principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago , Memphis , New Orleans , Cincinnati , Kansas City, Detroit , Hagerstown , St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville .
General merchandise carloads handled in 2004 were 2.9 million, the revenue from which accounted for 55% of NS’ total railway operating revenues in 2004.
See the discussion of general merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis.”
INTERMODAL
TRAFFIC
-
The intermodal market consists of shipments moving in trailers, domestic and international containers, and Roadrailer ® equipment.
These shipments are handled on behalf of
intermodal marketing companies, international steamship lines, truckers and other shippers.
Intermodal
units handled in 2004 were 2.9 million, the revenues from which accounted for 21% of NS’ total railway operating revenues for the year.
See the discussion of intermodal traffic in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.”
FREIGHT RATES -
In 2004, NS' railroads continued their reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their predominant pricing mechanisms.
Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not currently economically regulated by the government.
In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
However, in 2004 there were significant coal movements moving under common carrier (tariff) rates that had previously moved under rates contained in transportation contracts.
Beginning Jan. 1, 2002, coal moving to Duke Energy's (Duke) Belew's Creek, Allen, Buck and Dan River generating stations moved under common carrier rates and beginning April 1, 2002, coal moving to Carolina Power and Light's (CP&L) Hyco and Mayo plants moved under common carrier rates.
In 2002, Duke and CP&L filed rate reasonableness complaints at the STB alleging that NS’ tariff rates for the transportation of coal were unreasonable.
On October 20, 2004 , in a consolidated decision the STB found NS’ rates to be reasonable in both cases.
At the STB’s invitation, Duke and CP&L have each initiated proceedings to determine whether phasing constraints should apply.
Although management has made an estimate of the ultimate resolution of these cases, the uncertainty of future developments in the Duke case and( or) the CP&L case may result in adjustments that could have a favorable or unfavorable material impact on results of operations in a particular quarter or year.
See the discussion of the rate cases in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
In 2004, NS' railroads were found by the STB not to be “revenue adequate” based on results for the year 2003.
A railroad is “revenue adequate” under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
This determination is made pursuant to a statutory requirement and does not adversely impact NS' liquidity or capital resources.
K6
PASSENGER OPERATIONS -
Regularly scheduled passenger trains are operated by Amtrak on NS' lines between Alexandria and New Orleans , between Greensboro and Selma , North Carolina , between Chicago , Illinois , and Detroit , Michigan , and between Chicago and Harrisburg , Pennsylvania .
Commuter trains are operated on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria in accordance with contracts with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia .
NS also leases the Chicago to Manhattan , Illinois , line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois.
NS operates lines on which Amtrak conducts regularly scheduled passenger operations.
In addition, NS provides freight service over lines with significant ongoing Amtrak and commuter passenger operations, and is conducting freight operations over some trackage
owned by Amtrak or by New Jersey Transit, the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Metro-North Commuter Railroad Company and Maryland DOT.
Finally, passenger operations are conducted either by Amtrak or by the commuter agencies over trackage owned by Conrail in the Shared Assets Areas.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS -
NS' noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition, leasing and management of coal, oil, gas and minerals; the development of commercial real estate; telecommunications; and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment.
In 2004, no such noncarrier
subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier
subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131.
RAILWAY PROPERTY
The NS railroad system extends across 22 states, the District of Columbia and portions of Canada .
The railroad infrastructure makes the company very capital intensive with total property of approximately $21 billion.
Capital Expenditures -
Capital expenditures for road, equipment and other property for the past five years were as follows (including capitalized leases):
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services.
For 2005, NS has budgeted $938 million of capital spending.
See the discussion following “Cash used for investing activities,” in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
K7
Equipment -
As of Dec. 31, 2004 , NS owned or leased the following units of equipment:
The following table indicates the number and year built for locomotives and freight cars owned at Dec. 31, 2004 .
* Fifty of the locomotives built in 2001 were purchased in 2002.
K8
As of Dec. 31, 2004 , the average age of the locomotive fleet was 16.8 years.
During 2004, 50 locomotives, the average age of which was 22.9 years, were retired.
The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 2004 , was 27.6 years.
Between 1988 and 2000, about 29,000 coal cars were rebodied .
As a result, the remaining servicibility of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
During 2004, 1,829 freight cars were retired.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability.
The freight car bad order ratio rose in 2000, 2001 and 2002 as a result of decreased maintenance activity.
The decline in 2003 reflected an increase in maintenance activity as well as the retirement of unserviceable units.
The locomotive bad order ratio includes units out of service for required inspections every 92 days and program work such as overhauls.
The elevated ratio through 2004 reflected units out of service related to the resumption of maintenance and modification activities.
Encumbrances -
Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $930 million as of Dec. 31, 2004 , and $910 million at Dec. 31, 2003 .
Track Maintenance -
Of the approximately 38,200 total miles of track operated, NS had responsibility for maintaining about 31,000 miles of track with the remainder being operated under trackage rights.
Over 75% of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) has rail ranging from 131 to 155 pounds per yard with the standard installation currently at 141 pounds per yard.
Approximately 40% of NS lines carried 20 million or more gross tons per track mile.
The following table summarizes several measurements regarding NS' track roadway additions and replacements during the past five years:
Track miles of rail installed
Miles of track surfaced
5,055
5,105
5,270
3,836
3,687
New crossties installed (millions)
2.5
2.8
2.8
1.5
1.5
Microwave System - The NS microwave system, consisting of approximately 7,400 radio route miles, 423 core stations, 14 secondary stations and 5 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations.
The microwave system is used primarily for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations and AEI data transmissions.
Traffic Control -
Of the approximately 16,400 route miles owned by NS, 11,052 miles are signalized, including 8,030 miles of centralized traffic control (CTC) and 3,022 miles of automatic block signals.
K9
Of the 8,030 miles of CTC, 2,565 miles are controlled by data radio originating at 197 base station radio sites.
Computers -
A computer network consisting of a centralized data center in Atlanta , Georgia , and various distributed computers throughout the company connects the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations.
Operating and traffic data are processed and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system.
Computer systems provide current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data.
In addition, the computer systems are utilized to assist management in the performance of a variety of functions and services including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS -
Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal.
To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of “Environmental Matters” in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
EMPLOYEES -
NS employed an average of 28,475 employees in 2004, compared with an average of 28,753 employees in 2003.
The approximate average cost per employee during 2004 was $59,000 in wages and $28,000 in employee benefits.
Approximately 85% of NS' railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with 14 different labor unions.
See the discussion of “Labor Agreements” in Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
GOVERNMENT REGULATION -
In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB.
The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service and the extension or abandonment of rail lines.
The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers.
The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over two decades ago under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has continued.
Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., “piggyback”) business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing.
Transportation contracts on regulated shipments effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well.
About 75% of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
Efforts may be made in 2005 to re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation.
The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry.
Accordingly, NS will oppose efforts to reimpose unwarranted economic regulation.
COMPETITION -
There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers.
Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company.
Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are also important considerations, especially for higher-valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products.
Even for raw materials, semifinished goods and work-in-
K10
process , users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements that minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS’ primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory.
Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory.
NS also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Certain marketing strategies among railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
Item 3.