Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board {STB}).
Effective December 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway). As of December 31, 1996, all the common stock of NW (100 percent voting control) was owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 16.1 percent of its voting preferred stock (resulting in 94.8 percent voting control) was owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of North American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a diversified motor carrier. In accordance with an Acquisition Agreement dated May 2, 1984, and with the approval of the transaction by the ICC, Norfolk Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding common stock of NAVL. During 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring (see discussion on page 7) designed to enhance its opportunities to return to profitability.
Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. - On October 24, 1996, in response to the October 15, 1996, announcement that Conrail Inc. (Conrail) had entered into a merger agreement with CSX Corporation, NS commenced an all-cash tender offer for all the Common Stock and Series A ESOP Convertible Junior Preferred Stock of Conrail (collectively, Shares), including in each case the associated Common Stock Purchase Rights. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76 for additional details.
On February 11, 1997, NS acquired 8.2 million Shares of Conrail stock (approximately 9.9 percent of the then outstanding Conrail Common Stock), representing the approximate maximum number NS could buy without triggering Conrail's anti-takeover defenses, at a cost of $115 per Share, or $943 million in the aggregate. The purchase was financed through issuance of commercial paper backed by a portion of the revolving debt capacity under the credit facility obtained in connection with the proposed acquisition of Conrail. These Shares have been placed in a voting trust and under certain circumstances might have to be sold at a loss.
On February 12, 1997, NS commenced a second tender offer for the remaining Shares and has notified Conrail of its intention to conduct a proxy contest in connection with Conrail's 1997 Annual Meeting of shareholders, currently scheduled for December 19, 1997, seeking, among other things, to remove certain of the current members of the Conrail Board and to elect a new slate of nominees designated by NS.
Pursuant to an amendment to the merger agreement between CSX and Conrail announced on March 7, 1997, CSX has offered to purchase all Shares for $115 per Share in cash and CSX is permitted to enter into negotiations with other parties, including NS, concerning the acquisition of the securities or assets, or concessions relating to the assets or operations, of Conrail. NS and CSX are negotiating a comprehensive resolution of the issues confronting the eastern railroads based on the proposal submitted by NS to both CSX and Conrail on February 24, 1997. Such a resolution could involve a joint acquisition of Shares by NS and CSX. However, unless and until such negotiations are successfully concluded, NS intends to continue in effect its tender offer for all Shares not owned by NS.
For additional information concerning NS' pending tender offer for Shares not owned by NS, reference is made to NS' Tender Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1, together with the exhibits thereto, initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 12, 1997, as amended.
RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of December 31, 1996, NS' railroads operated approximately 14,300 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,094 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total are main line track. In addition, its railroads operate 10,800 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Although a lease extension agreement was approved by the boards of both Norfolk Southern and the North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) and by the stockholders of NCRR, the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum at the stockholders' meeting and enjoined the parties from performing under the extension agreement. NCRR has suits pending against Norfolk Southern and various subsidiaries in federal court in Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases and at the STB to seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS' railroads' continued use, including interim and long-term compensation. Also, certain NCRR stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still pending, derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the rental terms in the extension agreement. NS' railroads presently are operating over the leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting discontinuance of such operations. Whatever the ultimate resolution of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS' consolidated financial statements.
NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
NS' railroads and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective December 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were affected, NS could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements--an event considered unlikely at this time--such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million. MOTOR CARRIER OPERATIONS - DOMESTIC OPERATIONS - NAVL's principal transportation activity is the domestic, irregular route common and contract carriage of used household goods and special commodities between points in the United States. NAVL also operates as an intrastate carrier of property in 29 states. Prior to its restructuring in 1993, NAVL's domestic motor carrier business was organized into three primary divisions: Relocation Services (RS) specializing in residential relocation of used household goods; High Value Products (HVP) specializing in office and industrial relocations and transporting exhibits; and Commercial Transport (CT) specializing in the transportation of truckload shipments of general commodities. In 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring involving termination of the CT Division and sale of the operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star), NAVL's refrigerated trucking subsidiary. In 1993, NAVL discontinued CT's operations, transferred some parts of CT's business to other divisions and began selling CT's assets that were not needed in NAVL's other operations. The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on December 31, 1993.
During 1996, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations through a network of over 400 agents at approximately 680 locations in the United States. Agents are local moving and storage companies that provide NAVL with such services as solicitation, packing and warehousing in connection with the movement of household goods and specialized products. NAVL's future domestic operations are expected to be conducted principally through the RS and HVP divisions.
Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993 as an operating unit of the HVP Division. CLS' business is to focus NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for integrated logistics services. The services include emergency parts order fulfillment, time-definite transportation and in-transit merge programs (delivering an entire order, merged from multiple manufacturing points, to a customer at one time).
FOREIGN OPERATIONS - NAVL's foreign operations are conducted through the RS and HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries, including North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd. The Canadian subsidiary provides motor carrier service for the transportation of used household goods and specialized commodities between most points in Canada through a network of approximately 150 agent locations. During 1996, certain administrative functions related to the Canadian operations were transferred to NAVL's Fort Wayne, Indiana, headquarters.
NAVL's international operations consist primarily of forwarding used household goods to and from the United States and between foreign countries through a network of approximately 360 foreign agents and representatives. NAVL's international operations are structurally aligned with the services provided by its domestic operating divisions. All international household goods operations and related subsidiaries in Alaska and Canada are assigned to the RS Division. The remaining international operations, which include subsidiaries in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, are involved in the transportation of selected general and specialized commodities and are assigned to the HVP Division. TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, Norfolk Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark) (RT) equipment and domestic containers. RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor- trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives. On April 1, 1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Conrail are equal partners. RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC. Because NS indirectly owns only 50 percent of TCSC, the revenues of TCSC are not consolidated with the results of NS. TCSC offers door-to-door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New Jersey markets via Conrail. Major traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore--most of which is bituminous coal--is NS' railroads' principal commodity group. They originated 116.8 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1996 and handled a total of 130.2 million tons. Originated tonnage increased 2 percent from 114.2 million tons in 1995, and total tons handled increased 4 percent from 125.1 million tons in 1995. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore account for about 27 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues.
Of this originated coal, coke and iron ore, approximately 26.9 million tons moved for export, principally through NS' pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 19.7 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 62.3 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 7.9 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS' railroads moved 8.7 million tons of originated coal, coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 3.6 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River. Total coal handled through all system ports in 1996 was 41.7 million tons. Of this total, 71 percent moved through the pier facilities at Lamberts Point. In 1996, total tonnage handled at Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 29.5 million tons, a 2 percent increase from the 28.9 million tons handled in 1995.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 37.
MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings: Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and Metals/Construction. Total merchandise revenues in 1996 were $2.8 billion, a 2 percent increase over 1995. Merchandise carloads handled in 1996 were 3.24 million, compared with 3.18 million handled in 1995, an increase of 2 percent.
Intermodal results, for 1993 and later, reflect the effect of the formation, in April 1993, of TCSC, a partnership between NS and Conrail subsidiaries (see also page 7). This partnership provides RoadRailer(RT) service previously offered by a wholly owned subsidiary of NS. Because NS owns only 50 percent of TCSC, its revenues are not consolidated. NS' intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail service NS provides the partnership.
In 1996, 106.2 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated on line. The balance of merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some truck, water and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.
Revenues in four of the six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1996 over 1995. The biggest gains were in Automotive, up $39.6 million; Chemicals, up $19.4 million; and Intermodal, up $13.1 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 37. MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - Motor carrier revenues increased 2 percent to $669.0 million in 1996, primarily due to gains in the HVP Division. In 1995, motor carrier revenues were $656.2 million, down 1 percent from 1994, as gains in the HVP Division were offset by reductions in RS.
DOMESTIC OPERATIONS are conducted through NAVL's RS and HVP divisions. In 1996, total domestic shipments for these divisions were 383,137, up 0.5 percent from 1995.
RS - Domestic shipments of used household goods transported by the RS Division fall into three market categories. Approximately 52 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of moving services to individual consumers. Another 38 percent comes from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of their employees. The remaining 10 percent is derived from military, government and other sources. Total domestic RS Division shipments in 1996 represented 27 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the two primary divisions. Total domestic revenues from this division were down 2 percent, compared with 1995, and represented 40 percent of total revenues from operations.
HVP - The HVP Division specializes in providing transportation services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload (TL) quantities of sensitive products. These products are divided into the following categories: office furniture and equipment, exhibits and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery, commercial relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities. Total HVP Division shipments transported in 1996, including TL and LTL, represented 73 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the two primary divisions. Revenues from this division were up 5 percent from 1995 levels and represented 47 percent of total revenues from operations.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary, North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating subsidiaries in England and Germany. Foreign operations involving the transportation of used household goods and selected general and specialized commodities generated revenues of $86.0 million in 1996, up 5 percent from 1995. Revenues from foreign operations represented 13 percent of NAVL's total revenues. FREIGHT RATES - In 1996, NS' railroads continued their reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 1996, NS' railroads were found by the STB to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1995. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the reasonableness of regulated rates.
Pricing and service flexibility afforded by the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis on innovative pricing action in order to remain competitive. Since 1980, NAVL has increasingly operated as a contract carrier. As of December 31, 1996, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for the following percentage of shipments: RS Division, 31 percent and HVP Division, 69 percent. PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS' railroads' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North Carolina. Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Illinois, were discontinued by Amtrak on November 3, 1993. Commuter trains continued operations on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for rental and for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS. During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced an agreement under which NS had provided commuter rail service for the Authority.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - Norfolk Southern's noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment. In 1996, no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14. RAILWAY PROPERTY:
The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31, 1996, was 22.3 years. During 1996, 7,485 freight cars were retired. As of December 31, 1996, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.4 years. During 1996, 105 locomotives, the average age of which was 24.4 years, were retired. Since 1988, more than 23,000 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In past years, the bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined more recently as a result of a disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and over-age revenue cars. In this connection, an orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994, was substantially complete at the end of 1996.
TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,369 miles of track maintained as of December 31, 1996, 15,877 were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of 6,960 radio path miles, 398 active stations and 5 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,762 road miles operated by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 230 miles are controlled by data radio from 14 microwave site locations) and 2,600 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY:
REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support of its operations. Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana, California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Great Falls, Montana. NAVL also leases facilities throughout the United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.
EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment (tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers. Agents also provide a substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.
As of December 31, 1996, agents and owner-operators together supplied 3,438 tractors, representing 97 percent of the U.S. power equipment operated in NAVL service. Also as of December 31, 1996, NAVL owned 2,976 trailer units, representing 52 percent of the U.S. trailer fleet in NAVL service. The remaining 48 percent was provided mainly by agents and owner-operators. Agents and owner-operators also provided 1,058 straight trucks, or 97 percent, of such units in NAVL service.
NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and maintenance of its trailer equipment. In 1996, approximately 12,920 work orders were completed at NAVL's facility in Fort Wayne. As of December 31, 1996, the average age of trailer equipment in the NAVL fleet was 8.4 years.
COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as shipment tracing. Data processing capabilities are also utilized in revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $593.4 million as of December 31, 1996, and $545.4 million at December 31, 1995. In addition, a portion of NS' properties is subject to liens securing, as of December 31, 1996, and 1995, approximately $50.9 million and $77.2 million of mortgage debt, respectively. Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service are purchased by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and owner-operators under a NAVL-sponsored financing program. At December 31, 1996, NAVL had $13.9 million in such tractor contracts receivable. This program allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the tractors and to resell them under favorable financing terms. The equipment is sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents and owner- operators.
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1997, NS is planning $792 million of capital spending, of which $781 million will be for railway projects and $11 million for motor carrier property. Looking further ahead, total rail and motor carrier spending is expected to be similar to 1995 and 1996 levels. A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.
Acquisition of all or part of Conrail (see page 4) could cause the reallocation of already-planned capital spending and/or additional capital spending.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on page 37, and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76.
EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 25,830 employees in 1996, compared with an average of 26,944 in 1995. The approximate average cost per employee during 1996 was $45,173 in wages and $17,772 in employee benefits. Approximately 74 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations. As of the end of 1996, NS had negotiated labor agreements with all of its unions, except the American Train Dispatchers, which represents about 200 employees. The accords with the 12 other union organizations, which include compensation settlements in line with other major industries, will not be due for change until after January 1, 2000.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, is expected to continue under the STB. Thus it appears that additional rail business will be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
For motor carrier operations conducted by NAVL, the Department of Transportation and the STB are the principal regulatory entities. The STB exercises jurisdiction over the relationship between carriers and owner-operators, and carrier practices and common carrier rates relating to the transportation of household goods. The primary focus of the Department of Transportation is on driver qualification and safety standards, including maximum trailer length and width.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages. NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage. Consummation of the proposed merger agreement between Conrail and CSX (see page 4) could result in a serious imbalance in rail competition in the East--an outcome NS is resisting vigorously on a number of fronts and that the negotiations with CSX could prevent.
Certain cooperative strategies between railroads (such as the TCSC partnership involving NS and Conrail, see page 7) and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
NAVL continues to face strong competition due to deregulation and overcapacity in the industry that will keep profits at a modest level. While service remains a key issue, many shippers now place greater emphasis on price. For the RS Division, contract carriage and volume discount programs dominate the corporate relocation segment, and guaranteed price options are common to the individual consumer segment. Contract carriage agreements are also utilized extensively by the HVP Division to meet the service and price requirements of its customers.
Item 3.