Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern). In accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and related Plans of Merger, and with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC), each issued share of NW's common stock was converted into one share of Norfolk Southern Common Stock and each issued share of Southern common stock was converted into l.9 shares of Norfolk Southern Common Stock. The outstanding shares of Southern's preferred stock remained outstanding without change.
Effective December 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway). As of February 29, 1996, all the common stock of NW (100 percent voting control) is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 12 percent of its voting preferred stock (resulting in 94.6 percent voting control) are owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of North American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a diversified motor carrier. In accordance with an Acquisition Agreement dated May 2, 1984, and with the approval of the transaction by the ICC, Norfolk Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding common stock of NAVL. During 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring (see discussion on page 6 and in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73) designed to enhance its opportunities to return to profitability.
Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of December 31, 1995, NS' railroads operated more than 14,500 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,208 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total are main line track. In addition, NS' railroads operate approximately 11,000 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Following extensive negotiations, the terms of renewal contained in a Lease Extension Agreement were approved by the respective parties' boards of directors in August 1995, and, subject to a court challenge as to the presence of the required quorum of private stockholders ("Quorum Challenge"), by the stockholders of North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) at their meeting in December. Also, certain NCRR stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still-pending, derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the new rental terms, which provide for an annual rental of $8.0 million in 1995, with adjustments for inflation in each of the succeeding years of the lease. Pending resolution of the Quorum Challenge, NS' railroads continue to operate over NCRR lines under the rental terms contained in the Lease Extension Agreement. If the Quorum Challenge is successful, and if the NCRR is unable to obtain stockholder approval of the Lease Extension Agreement at a subsequent meeting, NS' railroads could be required to operate over these NCRR lines under conditions prescribed by regulatory authority, or they might operate over one or more alternate routes. Whatever the ultimate resolution of this matter, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS' consolidated financial position.
NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Va.; Morehead City, N.C.; Charleston, S.C.; Savannah and Brunswick, Ga.; and Jacksonville, Fl. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Al., and New Orleans, La.
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Oh.; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Md., to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
NS rail subsidiaries and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective December 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were affected, NS could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements--an event considered unlikely at this time--such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
MOTOR CARRIER OPERATIONS - DOMESTIC OPERATIONS - NAVL's principal transportation activity is the domestic, irregular route common and contract carriage of used household goods and special commodities between points in the United States. NAVL also operates as an intrastate carrier of property in 19 states.
Prior to its restructuring in 1993, NAVL's domestic motor carrier business was organized into three primary divisions: Relocation Services (RS) specializing in residential relocation of used household goods; High Value Products (HVP) specializing in office and industrial relocations and transporting exhibits; and Commercial Transport (CT) specializing in the transportation of truckload shipments of general commodities. In 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring involving termination of the CT Division and sale of the operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star), NAVL's refrigerated trucking subsidiary. In 1993, NAVL discontinued CT's operations, transferred some parts of CT's business to other divisions and began selling CT's assets that were not needed in NAVL's other operations. The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on December 31, 1993.
During 1995, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations through a network of over 400 agents at approximately 700 locations in the United States. Agents are local moving and storage companies that provide NAVL with such services as solicitation, packing and warehousing in connection with the movement of household goods and specialized products. NAVL's future domestic operations are expected to be conducted principally through the RS and HVP divisions.
Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993 as an operating unit of the HVP Division. CLS' business is to focus NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for integrated logistics services. The services include emergency parts order fulfillment, time-definite transportation and in-transit merge programs.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS - NAVL's foreign operations are conducted through the RS and HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries, including North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd. The latter subsidiary provides motor carrier service for the transportation of used household goods and specialized commodities between most points in Canada through a network of approximately 170 agent locations. NAVL's international operations consist primarily of forwarding used household goods to and from the United States and between foreign countries through a network of approximately 330 foreign agents
and representatives. NAVL's international operations are structurally aligned with the services provided by its domestic operating divisions. All international household goods operations and related subsidiaries in Alaska and Canada are assigned to the RS Division. The remaining international operations, which include subsidiaries in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, are involved in the transportation of selected general and specialized commodities and are assigned to the HVP Division.
TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, Norfolk Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark) (RT) equipment and domestic containers. RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor- trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives. On April 1, 1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Consolidated Rail Corporation (CR) are equal partners. RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC. Because NS indirectly owns only 50 percent of TCSC, the revenues of TCSC are not consolidated with the results of NS. TCSC offers door-to- door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New Jersey markets via CR. Major traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York.
TRANSPORTATION OPERATING REVENUES - NS' total transportation operating revenues were $4.67 billion in 1995. These revenues were received for the transportation of revenue freight: 280.6 million tons by rail and 1.2 million tons by motor carrier. Of the rail tonnage, 219.4 million tons originated on line, 242.7 million tons terminated on line (including 187.1 million tons of local traffic -- originating and terminating on line) and approximately 5.6 million tons was overhead traffic (neither originating nor terminating on line).
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore--most of which is bituminous coal--is NS' railroads' principal commodity group. NS' railroads originated 114.2 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1995 and handled a total of 125.1 million tons. Originated tonnage decreased 0.4 percent from 114.7 million tons in 1994, and total tons handled decreased 0.6 percent from 125.9 million tons in 1994. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore, which accounted for 27 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 34 percent of total revenue ton miles in 1995, were $1.24 billion, a decrease of 2 percent from $1.26 billion in 1994.
Of the 111.2 million tons of coal originating on NS railroad lines in 1995, the approximate breakdown by origin state is as follows: 41.2 million tons from West Virginia, 34.4 million tons from Virginia, 23.1 million tons from Kentucky, 7.1 million tons from Illinois, 3.6 million tons from Alabama, 1.6 million tons from Tennessee, and 0.2 million tons from Indiana. Of this NS-origin coal, approximately 25.7 million tons moved for export, principally through NS pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Va.; 18.6 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 58.7 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8.2 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users. NS' railroads moved 9.4 million tons of originated coal to various docks on the Ohio River for further movement by barge and 3.3 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal tonnage handled through all system ports in 1995 was 41.7 million. Of this total, 69 percent moved through the pier facilities at Lamberts Point. In 1995, total tonnage handled at Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 28.9 million tons, a 4 percent increase from the 27.8 million tons handled in 1994.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 35.
MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings (Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and Metals/Construction). Total NS railroad merchandise revenues increased in 1995 to $2.66 billion, a 4 percent increase over 1994. Railroad merchandise carloads handled in 1995 were 3.18 million, compared with 3.03 million handled in 1994, an increase of 5 percent.
Intermodal results, for 1993 and later, reflect the effect of the formation, in April 1993, of TCSC, a partnership between NS and Conrail subsidiaries (see also page 7). This partnership provides RoadRailer(RT) and domestic container services previously offered by a wholly owned subsidiary of NS. Because NS owns only 50 percent of TCSC, its revenues are not consolidated. NS' intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail service NS provides the partnership. Excluding this partnership effect, 1994 intermodal revenues increased 14%, compared with 1993.
In 1995, 105.2 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total rail merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated on line. The balance of NS' railroad merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some truck, water and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.
Revenues in all six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1995 over 1994, and in 1994 over 1993. The biggest gains in 1995 were in Intermodal, up $44.9 million; Automotive, up $22.0 million; and Metals/Construction, up $18.1 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 35.
MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - Motor carrier revenues declined 1 percent to $656.2 million in 1995. Gains in the HVP division were offset by reductions in RS. In 1994, motor carrier revenues were $663.2 million, down 7 percent from 1993, which included six months of revenues from truckload operations prior to the restructuring of NAVL (see page 6). Adjusted for the effect of discontinued truckload operations in 1993, motor carrier operating revenues in 1994 increased 15 percent.
DOMESTIC OPERATIONS now are conducted through NAVL's RS and HVP divisions. In 1995, total domestic shipments for these divisions were 381,121, up 0.5 percent from 1994. Further comments about each division follow.
Domestic shipments of used household goods transported by the RS Division fall into three market categories. Approximately 51 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of moving services to individual consumers. Another 38 percent comes from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of their employees. The remaining 11 percent is derived from military, government and other sources. Total domestic RS Division shipments in 1995 represented 29 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the two primary divisions. Total domestic revenues from this division were down 4 percent, compared with 1994, and represented 42 percent of total revenues from operations.
The HVP Division specializes in providing transportation services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload (TL) quantities of sensitive products. These products are divided into the following categories: office furniture and equipment, exhibits and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery, commercial relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities. Total HVP Division shipments transported in 1995, including TL and LTL, represented 71 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the two primary divisions. Revenues from this division were down 2 percent from 1994 levels and represented 46 percent of total revenues from operations.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary, North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating subsidiaries in England and Germany. Foreign operations involving the transportation of used household goods and selected general and specialized commodities generated revenues of $81.8 million in 1995, up 15 percent from 1994. Revenues from foreign operations represented 12 percent of NAVL's total revenues.
FREIGHT RATES - In 1995 NS' railroads continued their reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices. This situation is not expected to change in 1996 after the January 1 termination of the ICC and transfer of its functions to a new agency, the Surface Transportation Board (STB).
In 1995, the ICC found NS' railroads "revenue inadequate" based on results for the year 1994. A railroad is "revenue inadequate" under the Interstate Commerce Act when its return on net investment does not exceed the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
The revenue adequacy measure is used by the STB as one of the factors in its determination of reasonableness of regulated rates.
Pricing and service flexibility afforded by the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis on innovative pricing action in order to remain competitive. Since 1980, NAVL has increasingly operated as a contract carrier. As of December 31, 1995, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for the following percentage of shipments: RS Division, 31 percent and HVP Division, 81 percent.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, N.C. Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Il., were discontinued by Amtrak on November 3, 1993. Commuter trains continued operations on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS. During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan, Il., line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced an agreement under which NS had provided commuter rail service for the Authority.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - Norfolk Southern's noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment. In 1995, no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31, 1995, was 22.0 years. During 1995, NS retired 7,247 freight cars. As of December 31, 1995, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.7 years. During 1995, NS retired 67 locomotives, the average age of which was 22.6 years. Since 1988, NS has rebodied more than 20,500 coal cars. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than is inferable from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
NS continues freight car and locomotive maintenance programs to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In recent years, the bad order ratio reflects the storage of certain types of cars which are not in high demand. Funds were not spent to repair cars for which present and future customers' needs could be adequately met without such repair programs. Also, NS' own standards of what constitutes a "serviceable" car have risen, and NS continues its disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and overage cars. In this connection, NS began an orderly disposition of up to 17,000 freight cars in October 1994. Through the end of 1995, 7,272 of these cars had been sold.
TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) is rail ranging from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,514 miles of track maintained by NS as of December 31, 1995, 15,787 were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of 6,600 radio path miles, 376 active stations and 5 passive repeater stations, provides communications for Norfolk, Buffalo, Detroit, Fort Wayne, Chicago, Kansas City, St. Louis, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Memphis, Cincinnati and most operating locations between these cities. The microwave system provides service for approximately 17,200 individual telephone circuits. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors. Extension of microwave communications to low density or operations support facilities is accomplished via microwave interface to buried fiber-optic or copper cables.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,885 road miles operated by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 100 miles are controlled by data radio from eight microwave site locations) and 2,800 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key locations on NS to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. System operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, this facility affords substantial capacity for, and is utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - NS has extensive facilities for support of railroad operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY:
REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support of its operations. Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana, California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Great Falls, Montana. NAVL also leases facilities throughout the United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.
EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment (tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers. Agents also provide a substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.
As of December 31, 1995, agents and owner-operators together supplied 3,519 tractors, representing 97 percent of the U.S. power equipment operated in NAVL service. Also as of December 31, 1995, NAVL owned 3,097 trailer units, representing 54 percent of the U.S. trailer fleet in NAVL service. The remaining 46 percent was provided mainly by agents and owner-operators. Agents and owner-operators also provided 1,081 straight trucks, or 98 percent of such units in NAVL service.
NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and maintenance of its trailer equipment. In 1995, approximately 14,000 work orders were completed at NAVL's facility in Fort Wayne. As of December 31, 1995, the average age of trailer equipment in the NAVL fleet was 8.4 years.
COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as shipment tracing. Data processing capabilities are also utilized in revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $545.4 million as of December 31, 1995, and $521.9 million at December 31, 1994. In addition, a significant portion of NS' properties is subject to liens securing, as of December 31, 1995, and 1994, approximately $77.2 million and $83.9 million of mortgage debt, respectively.
Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service are purchased by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and owner-operators under a NAVL-sponsored financing program. At December 31, 1995, NAVL had $18.4 million in such tractor contracts receivable. This program allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the tractors and to resell them under favorable financing terms. The equipment is sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents and owner- operators.
NS' capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure NS' ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1996, NS is planning $708 million of capital spending, of which $699 million will be for railway projects and $9 million for motor carrier property. NS anticipates that a portion of its locomotive acquisitions in 1996 will be financed using capitalized leases similar to the 1995 leases (see note 6 on page 63). In 1996, equipment financing needs may be somewhat lower than in 1995, as proceeds from the sale of freight cars will be used for some equipment acquisitions. Looking further ahead, total rail and motor carrier spending are expected to continue to be similar to 1994 and 1995 levels. A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on page 35, and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 74.
EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 26,944 employees in 1995, compared with an average of 27,168 in 1994. The approximate average cost per employee during 1995 was $42,835 in wages and $17,792 in employee benefits. Approximately 74 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations. A tentative settlement was reached with the United Transportation Union, which represents the largest number of employees in the railroad industry. The settlement requires ratification by the members before acceptance. The negotiation of this settlement demonstrated that national handling produces the quickest path to agreement. Negotiations with the other unions are progressing.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the Surface Transportation Board (STB), which succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, is expected to continue under the STB. Thus it appears that additional rail business will be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions for NS' railroads are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
For motor carrier operations conducted by NAVL, the Department of Transportation and the STB are the principal regulatory entities. The STB exercises jurisdiction over the relationship between carriers and owner-operators, and carrier practices and common carrier rates relating to the transportation of household goods. The primary focus of the Department of Transportation is on driver qualification and safety standards, including maximum trailer length and width.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage. Increasingly, cooperative strategies between railroads (such as the TCSC partnership involving NS and CR, see page 7) and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
NAVL continues to face vigorous competition due to deregulation and overcapacity in the industry that will keep profits at a modest level. While service remains a key issue, many shippers now place greater emphasis on price. For the RS Division, contract carriage and volume discount programs dominate the corporate relocation segment, and guaranteed price options are common to the individual consumer segment. Contract carriage agreements are also utilized extensively by the HVP Division to meet the service and price requirements of its customers.
Item 3.