Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board [STB]).
Effective Dec. 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway). Effective Sept. 1, 1998, NW was merged with and into Norfolk Southern Railway. As of Dec. 31, 2000, all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 16.1 percent of its voting preferred stock (resulting in 94.8 percent voting control) was owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
Through a jointly owned entity, Norfolk Southern and CSX Corporation (CSX) own the stock of Conrail Inc., which owns the major freight railroad in the Northeast. Norfolk Southern has a 58% economic and 50% voting interest in the jointly owned entity. See also the discussion concerning operation of a portion of Conrail's rail assets, below.
On March 28, 1998, Norfolk Southern closed the sale of its motor carrier company, North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL) (see "Discontinued Operations" on Page 42 and Note 16 on Page 78). NAVL's results of operations, financial position and cash flows are presented as "Discontinued operations" in the accompanying financial statements.
Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
OPERATION OF A PORTION OF THE CONRAIL RAIL ASSETS - On June 1, 1999, NS and CSX, through their respective railroad subsidiaries, began operating separate portions of Conrail's rail routes and assets. Substantially all such assets are owned by two wholly owned subsidiaries of Consolidated Rail Corporation (CRC); one of those subsidiaries, Pennsylvania Lines LLC (PRR), has entered into various operating and leasing arrangements, more particularly described in Note 2 on Page 60, with Norfolk Southern Railway. Certain rail assets (Shared Assets Areas) still are owned by CRC, which operates them for joint and exclusive use by Norfolk Southern Railway and the rail subsidiary of CSX.
Operation of the PRR routes and assets increased the size of the system over which Norfolk Southern Railway provides service by nearly 50% and afforded access to the New York metropolitan area, to much of the Northeast and to most of the major East Coast ports north of Norfolk, Va. Also, the leasing arrangements with PRR augmented Norfolk Southern Railway's locomotive, freight car and intermodal fleet.
CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 2000, NS' railroads operated approximately 21,800 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, about 12,000 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total is main line track. In addition, its railroads operate almost 17,000 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
In addition to the lines leased from Conrail previously discussed, NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and operate over trackage owned by North Carolina Railway Company (NCRR).
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
Operations over the approximately 330 miles of tracks of NCRR, previously under a 100-year lease which expired on Dec. 31, 1994, are now under a trackage rights agreement. The term of the agreement is 15 years with NS' railroads having the right to renew for two additional 15-year periods. The new arrangement resolved all outstanding litigation between NS' railroads and NCRR and settled a number of contested real property issues. The agreement also includes very broad dispute resolution provisions.
NS' railroads carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast, East and Midwest, and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. They also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida; Baltimore, Maryland; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/Camden, New Jersey; Wilmington, Delaware; and the Ports of New York/New Jersey. Gulf Coast ports served include Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast, East and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah, Jacksonville, Cleveland, Newark, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Baltimore are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with Florida East Coast Railway Company allows NS' railroads to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky, southern and northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky, to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham); and the New Jersey area to Chicago (via Allentown and Pittsburgh).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Kansas City, Memphis, Meridian, New Orleans, Sidney/Salem and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, NS' intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark hereinafter abbreviated RT) equipment and domestic containers. RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans that can be pulled over highways in tractor-trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives. On April 1, 1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which subsidiaries of NS and Conrail are equal partners. RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC. From April 1, 1993, to June 1, 1999, the revenues of TCSC were not consolidated with the results of NS; however, effective June 1, 1999, NS gained control of TCSC and, therefore, now includes TCSC's results in its consolidated financial statements. TCSC offers door-to-door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in major traffic corridors, including those between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York.
Note: Effective in 2000, NS adopted the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) concerning Issue No. 99-19, "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent." The consensus presents indicators to consider in establishing the accounting for revenue. As a result of the application of the consensus, NS has reclassified to railway operating expenses certain charges that previously have been reported net with railway operating revenues. This change in reporting has no effect on income from railway operations. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore -- most of which is bituminous coal -- is NS' railroads' largest commodity group as measured by revenues. The railroads originated 156 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 2000 and handled a total of 175 million tons. Originated tonnage and total tons handled increased due to a full year of operations in the Northern Region. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore accounted for about 23 percent of NS' total railway operating revenues in 2000.
The following table shows total coal, coke and iron ore tonnage originated on line, received from connections and handled for the past five years:
Of the 175 million tons handled, approximately 20 million tons moved for export, principally through NS' pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 25 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 119 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 11 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS' railroads moved 9 million tons of originated coal, coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 9 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 2000 was 40 million tons. Of this total, 19 million tons (including coastwise traffic) moved through Lambert's Point and 4 million tons moved through the Baltimore Terminal.
The quantities of NS export coal handled through Lamberts Point for the past five years were as follows:
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
MERCHANDISE TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of intermodal and general merchandise, which consists of five major commodity groupings: automotive; chemicals; paper, clay and forest products; metals and construction; and agriculture, consumer products and government. Total merchandise revenues in 2000 were $4.7 billion, a 21 percent increase, compared with 1999. Merchandise carloads and intermodal units handled in 2000 were 5.16 million, compared with 4.44 million handled in 1999, an increase of 16 percent. The increases in revenues and carloads reflect a full year of operations in the Northern Region.
In 2000, 164 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated online. The balance of merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.
Revenues in all six market groups comprising merchandise traffic increased in 2000, due to a full year of operations in the Northern Region.
See the discussion of general merchandise rail traffic by commodity group and intermodal rail traffic in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
FREIGHT RATES - In 2000, NS' railroads continued their reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not currently economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 2000, NS' railroads were found by the STB not to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1999. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Greensboro and Selma, North Carolina. Commuter trains are operated on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia. NS also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois. Since June 1, 1999, Norfolk Southern Railway has operated former Conrail lines on which Amtrak conducts regularly
scheduled passenger operations between Chicago, Illinois, and Detroit, Michigan, and between Chicago and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Also since June 1, 1999, through its operation of PRR's routes, Norfolk Southern Railway has been providing freight service over former Conrail lines with significant ongoing Amtrak and commuter passenger operations, and is conducting freight operations over some trackage owned by Amtrak or by New Jersey Transit, the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Metro-North Commuter Railway Company and Maryland DOT. Finally, passenger operations are conducted either by Amtrak or by the commuter agencies over trackage owned by Pennsylvania Lines LLC, or by Conrail in the Shared Assets Areas.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - NS' noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in telecommunications, the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment. In 2000, no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
* Includes equipment leased to outside parties and equipment subject to equipment trusts, conditional sale agreements and capitalized leases.
** Includes 982 locomotives, 18,404 freight cars and 3,830 units of other equipment leased from PRR.
The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 2000, was 24.6 years. During 2000, 1,569 freight cars were retired. As of Dec. 31, 2000, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 16.1 years. During 2000, 20 locomotives, the average age of which was 24.5 years, were retired. Since 1988, about 29,000 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In past years, the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars that were not in high demand. The ratio had declined more recently as a result of a disposition program, which is expected to be accelerated in 2001, for underutilized, unserviceable and overage revenue cars. The ratio rose in 2000 as a result of decreased maintenance activity. The locomotive bad order ratio rose in 1997, particularly in the early months of the year, as older units required additional servicing and some new units were out-of-service related to warranty work. By year-end 1997, the locomotive bad order ratio had returned to a level nearer that of prior years. The increase in the locomotive bad order ratio in 1999 was primarily due to the maintenance requirements of units being rented to meet short-term needs and to weather-related failures. The ratio remained high in 2000 as maintenance activities were curtailed in response to a slowing economy.
TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 96 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the approximately 31,900 miles of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 2000, about 22,100 were laid with welded rail.
* Excludes trackage rights.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of 8,374 radio path miles, 443 active stations and 4 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used primarily for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 21,800 road miles operated by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 8,420 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 1,490 miles are controlled by data radio from 135 microwave site locations and 460 miles are cab-signal only) and 3,070 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Georgia. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $816 million as of Dec. 31, 2000, and $930 million at Dec. 31, 1999.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - Capital expenditures for road, equipment and other property for the past five years were as follows (including capitalized leases):
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 2001, NS has budgeted $806 million of capital spending. See the discussion following "Cash used for investing activities," on Page 43 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position. See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" on Page 47 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on Page 78.
EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 33,738 employees in 2000, compared with an average of 31,166 in 1999. The increase reflects the substantial number of former Conrail employees who became NS employees on June 1, 1999 and therefore are included in the year 2000 average for a full year. The approximate average cost per employee during 2000 was $51,000 in wages and $21,000 in employee benefits.
Approximately 85 percent of NS' railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with 15 different labor unions. See the discussion of "Labor Agreements" on Page 48 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on Jan. 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has continued under the STB, and additional rail business could be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. About 80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
Efforts may be made in 2001 to re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to reimpose or to authorize reimposing such economic regulation.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher-valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
Item 3.