Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board [STB]).
Effective Dec. 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway). Effective Sept. 1, 1998, NW was merged with and into Norfolk Southern Railway. As of Dec. 31, 1998, all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 16.1 percent of its voting preferred stock (resulting in 94.8 percent voting control) was owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
On March 28, 1998, Norfolk Southern closed the sale of its motor carrier company, North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL) (see "Discontinued Operations" on page 42 and Note 3 on page 66). NAVL's results of operations, financial position, and cash flows are presented as "Discontinued operations" in the accompanying financial statements.
Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. - During 1997, NS and CSX Corporation (CSX) completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc., the owner of Consolidated Rail Corporation, the major freight railroad in the Northeast. Norfolk Southern Railway will begin providing rail freight services on portions of Conrail's route system after the Closing Date, which NS and CSX have agreed will be June 1, 1999 (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail" on page 44 and Note 2 on page 62). Implementation of the Conrail transaction will expand NS' railroads' service area considerably, adding approximately 7,200 route-miles through an operating agreement, and giving them access to most of the major ports on the East Coast, to New York City and the Northeast, and to the Midwest. In addition, the equipment fleet will be augmented by approximately 1,100 locomotives, 27,200 freight cars, and 1,200 intermodal containers that Norfolk Southern Railway will lease from a Conrail subsidiary on the Closing Date.
CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 1998, NS' railroads operated approximately 14,400 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,115 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total is main line track. In addition, its railroads operate 10,780 miles of passing, industrial, yard, and side tracks.
NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Although a lease extension agreement was approved by the boards of both Norfolk Southern and the North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR), the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum at the stockholders' meeting where the agreement had been approved and enjoined the parties from performing under the extension agreement. NCRR has suits pending against Norfolk Southern and various subsidiaries in federal court in Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases, and at the STB to seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS' railroads' continued use and the compensation therefor. NS' railroads presently are operating over the leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting discontinuance of such operations. Whatever the ultimate resolution of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS' consolidated financial statements.
NS' railroads carry raw materials, intermediate products, and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest, and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. They also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida. Gulf Coast ports served include Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah, and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including
the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach, and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky, and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia, and Kentucky, to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga, and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans, and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
NS' railroads and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective Dec. 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were affected, NS could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements -- an event considered unlikely at this time -- such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, NS' intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark hereinafter abbreviated RT) equipment and domestic containers. RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor-trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives. On April 1, 1993, the business, name, and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which subsidiaries of NS and Conrail are equal partners. RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC. The revenues of TCSC since April 1, 1993, have not been consolidated with the results of NS; however, beginning with the Closing Date (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail" on page 44), NS expects to gain control of TCSC, and, therefore, include TCSC's results in its consolidated financial statements. TCSC offers door-to- door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New Jersey markets via Conrail. Major traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York.
Note: Revenues previously reported as "other railway revenues" (principally switching and demurrage) have been allocated to revenues reported for each commodity group.
Shipments include general merchandise and coal rail carloads, and intermodal rail and RoadRailer(RT) units.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke, and iron ore -- most of which is bituminous coal -- is NS' railroads' principal commodity group. They originated 119 million tons of coal, coke, and iron ore in 1998 and handled a total of 134 million tons. Originated tonnage and total tons handled remained stable compared with 1997. Revenues from coal, coke, and iron ore account for about 30 percent of NS' total railway operating revenues.
The following table shows total coal, coke, and iron ore tonnage originated on line, received from connections, and handled for the past five years:
Of the 134 million tons handled, approximately 25 million moved for export, principally through NS' pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 18 million moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 83 million of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8 million moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS' railroads moved 6 million tons of originated coal, coke, and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 5 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 1998 was 39 million tons. Of this total, 69 percent, or 27 million tons (including coastwise traffic), moved through Lamberts Point, a 16 percent decrease, compared with the 32 million tons handled in 1997.
The quantities of NS export coal handled through Lamberts Point for the past five years were as follows:
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
Merchandise Traffic - The merchandise traffic group consists of intermodal and general merchandise, which consists of five major commodity groupings: chemicals; automotive; paper, clay, and forest products; agriculture, consumer products, and government; and metals and construction. Total merchandise revenues in 1998 were $3.0 billion, a 2 percent increase, compared with 1997. Merchandise carloads and intermodal units handled in 1998 were 3.50 million, compared with 3.43 million handled in 1997, an increase of 2 percent.
In 1998, 113 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 67 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated on line. The balance of merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.
Revenues in only two of the six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1998. The only large gain was in the automotive group, up $74 million.
See the discussion of general merchandise rail traffic by commodity group and intermodal rail traffic in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
FREIGHT RATES - In 1998, NS' railroads continued their reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not currently economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 1998, NS' railroads were found by the STB to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1997. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the reasonableness of regulated rates.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North Carolina. Commuter trains are operated on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Both of these services are under contracts providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS. NS also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois.
After the Closing Date (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail" on page 44), Norfolk Southern Railway will operate that portion of Conrail's routes and assets allocated to Conrail's wholly owned subsidiary, Pennsylvania Lines LLC. As a result, Norfolk Southern Railway will provide freight service over lines with significant ongoing Amtrak and commuter passenger operations, and will conduct freight operations over some trackage owned by Amtrak or by commuter entities.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - NS' noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil, gas, and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate, and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment. In 1998, no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
* Includes equipment leased to outside parties and equipment subject to equipment trusts, condition sale agreements, and capitalized leases.
The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 1998, was 23.6 years. During 1998, 1,338 freight cars were retired. As of Dec. 31, 1998, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.4 years. During 1998, 52 locomotives, the average age of which was 20.6 years, were retired. The average age of retired locomotives decreased in 1998 due to: (1) a disproportionate share of early retirements due to casualties and service failures, and (2) retention of older units in anticipation of the Closing Date. Since 1988, about 27,000 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction, and equipment marketability. In past years, the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined more recently as a result of a disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable, and overage revenue cars. In this connection, an orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994, was completed in 1997. The locomotive bad order ratio rose in 1997, particularly in the early months of the year as older units required additional servicing and some new units were out-of-service related to warranty work. By year-end 1997, the locomotive bad order ratio had returned to a more historic level.
TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third, and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,382 miles of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 1998, 15,955 were laid with welded rail.
* Excludes trackage rights.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of 7,610 radio path miles, 417 active stations, and 4 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions, and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,784 road miles operated by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 560 miles are controlled by data radio from 43 microwave site locations), and 2,500 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices, and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Georgia. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of
providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
NS has under way a project to review, and modify as necessary, computer and other systems for Year-2000 compliance. See discussion of Year-2000 compliance efforts on page 46 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $725 million as of Dec. 31, 1998, and $601 million at Dec. 31, 1997.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - Capital expenditures for road, equipment, and other property for the past five years were as follows (including capitalized leases):
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient, and reliable transportation services. For 1999, NS has budgeted $1.07 billion of capital spending, of which $300 million are initial outlays for facilities and equipment related to the Conrail transaction. Capital spending is expected to remain at historically high levels, as projects related to the operation of Conrail's routes and assets will continue after the Closing Date.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity, or competitive position. See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" on page 48 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," and in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80.
EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 24,300 employees in 1998, compared with an average of 25,817 (which includes 2,407 NAVL employees) in 1997. The approximate average cost per employee during 1998 was $49,700 in wages and $17,600 in employee benefits.
Approximately 85 percent of NS' railroad employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with 15 different labor organizations. The agreements currently in force will remain in effect through Dec. 31, 1999, and thereafter until new agreements are reached or until the Railway Labor Act's procedures are exhausted.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities, and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on Jan. 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has continued under the STB, and additional rail business could be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles, and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood, and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
Efforts will be made in 1999 to re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to re- impose or to authorize re-imposing such economic regulation.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water, and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery, and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods, and work-in-process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory, and implementation of the Conrail transaction should extend the area in which they compete. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS also competes with motor carriers, water carriers, and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
Item 3.