Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board {STB}).
Effective Dec. 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway). As of Dec. 31, 1997, all the common stock of NW (100 percent voting control) was owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 16.1 percent of its voting preferred stock (resulting in 94.8 percent voting control) was owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of North American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a diversified motor carrier. In accordance with an Acquisition Agreement dated May 2, 1984, and with the approval of the transaction by the ICC, Norfolk Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding common stock of NAVL. During 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring (see discussion on page 17) designed to enhance its opportunities to return to profitability. On Jan. 12, 1998, NS announced that it signed an agreement to sell all the common stock of NAVL. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be consummated before May 31, 1998; NS expects to report a gain on this sale. NAVL's results of operation, financial position and cash flows are presented as "Discontinued operations" in the accompanying financial statements.
Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. - During 1997, NS and CSX Corporation (CSX) completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc. equity (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail" on page 47).
CONTINUING OPERATIONS:
RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 1997, NS' railroads operated approximately 14,400 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West
Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,101 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total is main line track. In addition, its railroads operate 10,838 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Although a lease extension agreement was approved by the boards of both Norfolk Southern and the North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) and by the stockholders of NCRR, the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum at the stockholders' meeting and enjoined the parties from performing under the extension agreement. NCRR has suits pending against Norfolk Southern and various subsidiaries in federal court in Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases and at the STB to seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS' railroads' continued use and the compensation therefor. Also, certain NCRR stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still pending, derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the rental terms in the extension agreement. NS' railroads presently are operating over the leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting discontinuance of such operations. Whatever the ultimate resolution of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS' consolidated financial statements.
NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia
and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
Implementation of the Conrail transaction should expand NS' service area considerably, giving it access to most of the major ports on the East Coast, to New York City and the Northeast, and to the Midwest. Additional information is provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis," beginning on page 34, and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
NS' railroads and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective Dec. 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were affected, NS could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements -- an event considered unlikely at this time -- such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, Norfolk Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark hereinafter abbreviated RT) equipment and domestic containers. RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor-trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives. On April 1, 1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Conrail are equal partners. RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC. Because NS indirectly owns only 50 percent of TCSC, the revenues of TCSC are not consolidated with the results of NS. TCSC offers door-to-door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New Jersey markets via Conrail. Major traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York. NS expects to succeed to Conrail's interest in TCSC, if its joint control application with CSX is approved.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore -- most of which is bituminous coal -- is NS' railroads' principal commodity group. They originated 119 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1997 and handled a total of 134 million tons. Originated tonnage increased 2 percent from 117 million tons in 1996, and total tons handled increased 3 percent from 130 million tons in 1996. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore account for about 31 percent of NS' total railway operating revenues.
Of this 119 million tons, approximately 28 million moved for export, principally through NS' pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 19 million moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 64 million of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8 million moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS' railroads moved 9 million tons of originated coal, coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 5 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 1997 was 45 million tons. Of this total, 71 percent, or 32 million tons (including coastwise traffic), moved through Lamberts Point, a 7 percent increase, compared with the 30 million tons handled in 1996.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 34.
MERCHANDISE TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings: Paper, Clay, and Forest Products; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture, Government, and Consumer Products; and Metals and Construction. Total merchandise revenues in 1997 were $2.92 billion, a 5 percent increase, compared with 1996. Merchandise carloads handled in 1997 were 3.43 million, compared with 3.24 million handled in 1996, an increase of 6 percent.
Intermodal results, for 1993 and later, reflect the effect of the formation, in April 1993, of TCSC, a partnership between subsidiaries of NS and Conrail (see also page 6). This partnership provides RoadRailer(RT) service previously offered by a wholly owned subsidiary of NS. Because NS currently owns only 50 percent of TCSC, its revenues are not consolidated. NS' intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail service NS provides the partnership.
In 1997, 111 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 67 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated on line. The balance of merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.
Revenues in five of the six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1997. The largest gains were in Intermodal, up $60 million; Paper, Clay, and Forest Products, up $26 million; and Chemicals, up $25 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 34.
FREIGHT RATES - In 1997, NS' railroads continued their reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 1997, NS' railroads were found by the STB to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1996. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the reasonableness of regulated rates.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North Carolina. Commuter trains are operated on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Both of these services are under contracts providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS. NS also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois.
Should the Conrail transaction become effective as proposed, NS will accommodate substantially increased Amtrak and commuter passenger mileage and will conduct significant freight operations over trackage owned by Amtrak or by commuter entities.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - Norfolk Southern's noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment. In 1997, no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 1997, was 23.0 years. During 1997, 2,250 freight cars were retired. As of Dec. 31, 1997, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.3 years. During 1997, 78 locomotives, the average age of which was 23.3 years, were retired. Since 1988, more than 25,100 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In past years, the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined more recently as a result of a disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and over-age revenue cars. In this connection, an orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994, was completed in 1997. The locomotive bad order ratio rose in 1997, particularly in the early months of the year as older units required additional servicing and some new units were out-of-service related to warranty work. By year-end, the locomotive bad order ratio had returned to a more historic level.
TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,427 miles of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 1997, 15,878 were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of 7,610 radio path miles, 417 active stations and 4 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,784 road miles operated by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 560 miles are controlled by data radio from 43 microwave site locations) and 2,500 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as
well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
NS has underway a project to review, and modify as necessary, computer and other systems for Year-2000 compliance. As of December 1997, most of NS' mainframe computer programs have been reviewed. This mainframe project is expected to be completed by the end of 1998. Failure to achieve Year-2000 compliance -- by NS, other railroads, its suppliers, and its customers -- could negatively affect NS' ability to conduct business for an extended period. Management believes that NS' project will be completed on time and that the chance of failure is remote.
OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $601 million as of Dec. 31, 1997, and $594 million at Dec. 31, 1996. In addition, a portion of NS' properties is subject to liens securing, as of Dec. 31, 1997, and 1996, approximately $1 million and $51 million of mortgage debt, respectively.
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1998, NS has budgeted $903 million of capital spending, of which $149 million are initial outlays for facilities and equipment related to the Conrail transaction. Capital spending is expected to be affected significantly by Conrail-related expenditures, which are anticipated to add approximately $500 million (net of predicted savings) over the next three years.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" on page 49 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis" beginning on page 34, and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78.
EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 25,817 employees in 1997, compared with an average of 25,830 in 1996. The approximate average cost per employee during 1997 was $46,604 in wages and $17,279 in employee benefits. Approximately 74 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations.
As of the end of 1997, NS had negotiated labor agreements with all of its unions. The accords with the 13 union organizations, which include compensation settlements in line with other major industries, will not be due for change until after January 1, 2000.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on Jan. 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has continued under the STB and additional rail business could be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
Efforts will be made in 1998 to re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to re- impose or to authorize re-imposing such economic regulation.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory, and implementation of the Conrail transaction should extend the area in which they compete. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - MOTOR CARRIER:
DOMESTIC OPERATIONS - NAVL's principal transportation activity is the domestic, irregular route common and contract carriage of used household goods and special commodities between points in the United States. NAVL also operates as an intrastate carrier of property in 33 states. Prior to its restructuring in 1993, NAVL's domestic motor carrier business was organized into three primary divisions: Relocation Services (RS) specializing in residential relocation of used household goods; High Value Products (HVP) specializing in office and industrial relocations and transporting exhibits; and Commercial Transport (CT) specializing in the transportation of truckload shipments of general commodities. In 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring involving termination of the CT Division and sale of the operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star), NAVL's refrigerated trucking subsidiary. In 1993, NAVL discontinued CT's operations, transferred some parts of CT's business to other divisions and began selling CT's assets that were not needed in NAVL's other operations. The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on Dec. 31, 1993.
During 1997, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations through a network of approximately 380 agents with over 600 locations in the United States. Agents are local moving and storage companies that provide NAVL with such services as solicitation, packing and warehousing in connection with the movement of household goods and specialized products. NAVL's future domestic operations are expected to be conducted principally through the RS and HVP divisions.
Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993 as an operating unit of the HVP Division. CLS' business is to focus NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for integrated logistics services. The services include emergency parts order fulfillment, time-definite transportation and in-transit merge programs (delivering an entire order, merged from multiple manufacturing points, to a customer at one time).
FOREIGN OPERATIONS - NAVL's foreign operations are conducted through the RS and HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries, including North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd. The Canadian subsidiary provides motor carrier service for the transportation of used household goods and specialized commodities between most points in Canada through a network of approximately 138 agent locations. During 1996, certain administrative functions related to the Canadian operations were transferred to NAVL's Fort Wayne, Indiana, headquarters.
NAVL's international operations consist primarily of forwarding used household goods to and from the United States and between foreign countries through a network of approximately 350 foreign agents and representatives. NAVL's international operations are structurally aligned with the services provided by its domestic operating divisions. All international household goods operations and related subsidiaries in Alaska and Canada are assigned to the RS Division. The remaining international operations, which include subsidiaries in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, are involved in the transportation of selected general and specialized commodities and are assigned to the HVP Division.
MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - Motor carrier revenues increased 1 percent to $942 million in 1997, due to gains in all segments of the HVP Division. These HVP gains were partly offset by shortfalls in RS attributable to volume declines. In 1996, motor carrier revenues were $930 million, up 4 percent from 1995, attributable to gains in both divisions.
DOMESTIC OPERATIONS are conducted through NAVL's RS and HVP divisions. In 1997, total domestic shipments for these divisions were 392,455, up 2 percent from 1996.
RS - Domestic shipments of used household goods transported by the RS Division fall into three market categories. Approximately 53 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of moving services to individual consumers. Another 37 percent comes
from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of their employees. The remaining 10 percent is derived from military, government and other sources. Total domestic RS Division shipments in 1997 represented 25 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the two primary divisions. Total domestic revenues from this division were down 2 percent, compared with 1996, and represented 52 percent of total revenues from operations.
HVP - The HVP Division specializes in providing transportation services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload (TL) quantities of sensitive products. These products are divided into the following categories: office furniture and equipment, exhibits and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery, commercial relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities. Total HVP Division shipments transported in 1997, including TL and LTL, represented 75 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the two primary divisions. Revenues from this division were up 6 percent from 1996 levels and represented 40 percent of total revenues from operations.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary, North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating subsidiaries in England and Germany. Foreign operations involving the transportation of used household goods and selected general and specialized commodities generated revenues of $77 million in 1997, down 2 percent from 1996. Revenues from foreign operations represented 8 percent of NAVL's total revenues.
FREIGHT RATES - Pricing and service flexibility afforded by the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis on innovative pricing action in order to remain competitive. Since 1980, NAVL has increasingly operated as a contract carrier. As of Dec. 31, 1997, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for 33 percent of RS Division shipments and 68 percent of HVP Division shipments.
MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY:
REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support of its operations. Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana, California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Great Falls, Montana. NAVL also leases facilities throughout the United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.
EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment (tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers. Agents also provide a substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.
As of Dec. 31, 1997, agents and owner-operators together supplied 3,352 tractors, representing 98 percent of the U.S. power equipment operated in NAVL service. Also as of Dec. 31, 1997, NAVL owned 2,915 trailer units, representing 54 percent of the U.S. trailer fleet in NAVL service. The remaining 46 percent was provided mainly by agents and owner-operators. Agents and owner-operators also provided 997 straight trucks, or 97 percent of such units in NAVL service.
NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and maintenance of its trailer equipment. In 1997, approximately 24,000 work orders were completed at NAVL's facility in Fort Wayne. As of Dec. 31, 1997, the average age of trailer equipment in the NAVL fleet was 8.5 years.
ENCUMBRANCES - Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service are purchased by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and owner-operators under a NAVL-sponsored financing program. At Dec. 31, 1997, NAVL had $19 million in such tractor contracts receivable. This program allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the tractors and to resell them under favorable financing terms. The equipment is sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents and owner-operators.
COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as shipment tracing. Data processing capabilities are also utilized in revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - For motor carrier operations conducted by NAVL, the Department of Transportation and the STB are the principal regulatory entities. The STB exercises jurisdiction over the relationship between carriers and owner-operators, and carrier practices and common carrier rates relating to the transportation of household goods. The primary focus of the Department of Transportation is on driver qualification and safety standards, including maximum trailer length and width.
COMPETITION - NAVL continues to face strong competition due to deregulation and overcapacity in the industry that will keep profits at a modest level. While service remains a key issue, many shippers now place greater emphasis on price. For the RS Division, contract carriage and volume discount programs dominate the corporate relocation segment, and guaranteed price options are common to the individual consumer segment. Contract carriage agreements are also utilized extensively by the HVP Division to meet the service and price requirements of its customers.
Item 3.