Item 2. Properties. - ------ ---------- GENERAL. Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern). In accordance with an Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and related Plans of Merger, and the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC), each issued share of NW's common stock was converted into one share of Norfolk Southern Common Stock and each issued share of Southern common stock was converted into 1.9 shares of Norfolk Southern Common Stock. The outstanding shares of Southern's preferred stock remained outstanding without change.
Effective December 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway). As of February 28, 1994, all the common stock of NW (100 percent voting control) is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 7.1 percent of its preferred stock (resulting in 94.3 percent voting control) are owned directly by Norfolk Southern.
On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of North American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a diversified motor carrier. In accordance with an Acquisition Agreement dated May 2, 1984, and the approval of the transaction by the ICC, Norfolk Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding common stock of NAVL from PepsiCo, Inc. During 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring (see discussion on page 7 and in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 74) designed to enhance its opportunities to return to profitability.
Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.
STOCK PURCHASE PROGRAMS. Norfolk Southern announced on November 24, 1987, that its Board of Directors had authorized the purchase of up to 20 million shares of Norfolk Southern's common stock through the end of 1990. This program was completed in November 1989. On October 24, 1989, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to an additional 45 million shares of common stock. Purchases under these programs initially were made with internally generated cash. Beginning in May 1990, some purchases were financed with proceeds from the sale of short-term notes pursuant to the commercial paper program discussed below. On January 29, 1992, Norfolk Southern announced that, primarily related to issues surrounding the 1991 special charge (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 85), the purchase program would continue, but at a slower pace and over a longer authorized period with purchases dependent on market conditions, the economy, cash needs and alternative investment opportunities. As of December 31, 1993, 33.6 million shares had been purchased pursuant to the current program resulting in a total of 53.6 million shares purchased and retired since 1987 at a cost of approximately $2.2 billion. If all 45 million shares are purchased under the current program, the number of outstanding shares of common stock will have been reduced by about one third since 1987. Purchases are made in regular brokerage transactions on the open market at prevailing market prices and otherwise in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.
In June 1989, Norfolk Southern announced that it intended to purchase up to 250,000 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, during the subsequent two-year period. In May 1991, Norfolk Southern extended the previously announced stock purchase program through 1993. In March 1994, Norfolk Southern announced that it would continue purchasing up to 250,000 shares of the stock through 1996. From June 2, 1989, through December 31, 1993, Norfolk Southern had purchased 77,626 shares of the preferred stock at a total cost of approximately $2.67 million.
COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAM AND DEBT ISSUANCE. In May 1990, Norfolk Southern established a commercial paper program principally to finance the purchase and retirement of its common stock. Commercial paper debt is due within one year, but a portion has been classified as long-term because Norfolk Southern has the ability and intends to refinance its commercial paper on a long-term basis, either by issuing additional commercial paper (supported by a revolving credit agreement) or by replacing commercial paper notes with long-term debt. The original $350 million credit agreement was replaced effective June 9, 1992, by a credit agreement expiring June 9, 1995, having a credit limit of $400 million. The agreement provides for interest on borrowings at prevailing short-term rates and contains customary financial covenants, including principally a minimum tangible net worth requirement of $3 billion and a restriction on the creation or assumption of certain liens.
Norfolk Southern intends to replace the current credit agreement with a new agreement during the first half of 1994. It is expected that the new credit agreement will have a term of five years, a credit limit of $500 million and covenants similar to those included in the current agreement.
In January 1991, Norfolk Southern filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering the issuance of up to $750 million principal amount of unsecured debt securities. On March 13, 1991, Norfolk Southern issued and sold $250 million principal amount of its 9 percent Notes due March 1, 2021 (9% Notes). The 9% Notes are not redeemable prior to
maturity and are not entitled to any sinking fund. Proceeds from the sale of the 9% Notes were used to purchase and retire shares of Norfolk Southern Common Stock and to retire short-term commercial paper debt issued to fund previous share purchases.
On February 26, 1992, Norfolk Southern issued and sold $250 million principal amount of its 7-7/8 percent Notes due February 15, 2004 (7-7/8% Notes). The 7-7/8% Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not entitled to any sinking fund. Proceeds from the sale of the 7-7/8% Notes were used to purchase and retire shares of Norfolk Southern Common Stock and to retire short-term commercial paper debt.
RAILROAD OPERATIONS. As of December 31, 1993, NS' railroads operated 14,589 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,761 miles are owned, 677 miles are leased and 1,151 miles are operated under trackage rights. Of the operated mileage, 11,870 miles are main line and 2,719 miles are branch line. In addition, NS' railroads operate approximately 11,266 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS' railroads have major leased lines in North Carolina and between Cincinnati, Oh., and Chattanooga, Tn. The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 300 miles, expire at the end of 1994, and NS' railroads are discussing possible renewals with the lessor. If these leases are not renewed, NS' railroads could be required to continue using the lines subject to conditions prescribed by the ICC or they might find it necessary ultimately to operate over an alternate route or routes. It is not expected that the resolution of this matter, whether resulting in renewal of the leases, continued use of the leased lines under prescribed conditions or operation over one or more alternate routes, will have a material effect on NS' consolidated financial position. The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years at terms to be agreed upon.
NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Va.; Morehead City, N.C.; Charleston, S.C.; Savannah and Brunswick, Ga.; and Jacksonville, Fl. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Al., and New Orleans, La.
The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta,
Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition to serving other established centers, its lines reach many industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Oh.; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Md., to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
MOTOR CARRIER OPERATIONS. NAVL's principal transportation activity is the domestic, irregular route common and contract carriage of used household goods and special commodities between points in the United States. NAVL also operates as an intrastate carrier of property in 17 states.
Prior to its restructuring in 1993, NAVL's domestic motor carrier business was organized into three primary divisions: Relocation Services (RS) specializing in residential relocation of household goods; High Value Products (HVP) specializing in office and industrial relocations and transporting exhibits; and Commercial Transport (CT) specializing in the transportation of truckload shipments of general commodities. In 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring involving termination of the CT Division and sale of the operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star), NAVL's refrigerated trucking subsidiary. In 1993, NAVL discontinued CT's operations, transferred some parts of CT's business to other divisions and began selling CT's assets that are not needed in NAVL's other operations. The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on December 31, 1993. During 1993, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations through agents at 707 locations in the United States. Agents are local moving and storage companies that provide NAVL with such services as solicitation, packing and warehousing in connection with the movement of household goods and specialized products. NAVL's domestic operations are expected to be conducted principally through the RS and HVP divisions in 1994 and thereafter.
Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993 as an operating unit of the HVP Division. CLS' business is to focus NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for integrated logistics services. The services include emergency parts order fulfillment, time definite transportation, and returns and merchandise recycling services.
NAVL's foreign operations are conducted through the RS and HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries, including North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd. The latter subsidiary provides motor carrier service for the transportation of used household goods and specialized commodities between most points in Canada through a network of approximately 182 agent locations. NAVL's international operations consist primarily of forwarding used household goods to and from the United States and between foreign countries through a network of approximately 350 foreign agents and representatives. NAVL's international operations are structured to align them with the services provided by its domestic operating divisions. All international household goods operations and related subsidiaries in Alaska, Canada and Panama are assigned to the RS Division. The remaining international operations, which include subsidiaries in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, are involved in the transportation of selected general and specialized commodities and are assigned to the HVP Division.
The RS Division successfully completed its negotiations in the first quarter of 1992 to form a joint venture company known as UTS Europe Holding BV (UTS). The new entity, which is headquartered in Amsterdam, Netherlands, has been handling intra-European movement of household goods since March 1, 1992. NAVL has a 40 percent interest in UTS which is comprised of approximately 70 individual shareholders in 65 locations throughout Europe. To date, national and regional organizations have been formed under the UTS banner in Germany and the Netherlands (founding members), with an 8 percent and 5 percent interest in UTS, respectively. In addition, the United Kingdom (8 percent interest in UTS), Belgium (5 percent interest) and the Scandinavian countries (5 percent interest) have also formed under the UTS banner.
TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS. Until April 1993, Norfolk Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark) (RT) equipment and domestic containers. RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor- trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives. On April 1, 1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership formed by subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Consolidated Rail Corporation (CR). RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC. Because NS indirectly owns only 50 percent of TCSC (an affiliate of CR also owns 50 percent), the revenues of TCSC are not consolidated with the results of NS. TCSC offers door-to-door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New Jersey markets via CR. Major traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta and Atlanta and New York.
TRANSPORTATION OPERATING REVENUES. NS' total transportation operating revenues were $4.5 billion in 1993. These revenues were received for the transportation of revenue freight: 262.3 million tons by rail and 3.2 million tons by motor carrier. Of the rail tonnage, approximately 210.4 million tons originated on line, approximately 222.8 million tons terminated on line (including 177.1 million tons of local traffic -- originating and terminating on line) and approximately 6.2 million tons was overhead traffic (neither originating nor terminating on line).
Revenue and revenue ton mile (one ton of freight moved one mile) contributions by principal transportation operating revenue sources for the period 1989 through 1993 are set forth in the following table:
COAL TRAFFIC - The commodity group moving in largest tonnage volume over NS' railroads is coal, coke and iron ore, most of which is bituminous coal. NS' railroads originated 112.1 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1993 and handled a total of 118.0 million tons. Originated tonnage decreased 5 percent from 118.0 million tons in 1992, and total tons handled decreased 5 percent from 124.4 million tons. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore, which accounted for 27 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 36 percent of total revenue ton miles in 1993, were $1.21 billion, a decrease of 6 percent from $1.30 billion in 1992.
The following table shows total coal tonnage originated on NS' lines, received from connections and handled for the five years ended December 31, 1993:
Of the 109.8 million tons of coal originating on NS railroad lines in 1993, the approximate breakdown is as follows: 37.9 million tons from West Virginia, 37.6 million tons came from Virginia, 22.9 million tons from Kentucky, 7.6 million tons from Alabama, 1.7 million tons from Tennessee, 1.1 million tons from Illinois, and 1.0 million tons from Indiana. Of this NS-origin coal, approximately 25.3 million tons moved for export, principally through NS pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Va.; 20.1 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 55.6 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8.8 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users. NS' railroads moved 9.7 million tons of originated coal to various docks on the Ohio River for further movement by barge and 5.1 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal moving for export, virtually all coal tonnage handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total NS coal tonnage handled through all system ports in 1993 was 42.4 million. Of this total, 65 percent moved through the pier facilities at Lamberts Point. In 1993, total tonnage handled at Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 27.6 million tons, a 20 percent decrease from the 34.7 million tons handled in 1992.
The quantities of NS coal handled for export only through Lamberts Point for the five years ended December 31, 1993, were as follows:
The recession in Europe and high stockpiles of coal overseas continued to affect NS' railroads' export coal shipments in 1993, as did the UMWA strike at several mines served by NS. Domestic coal was essentially flat, compared with 1992, although the market for utility coals increased slightly because of the hot weather in our service region and continued spot tonnage purchases. Increased shipments to steel producers were attributed to strike-related problems encountered by suppliers served by other carriers; the industrial market stayed even with the previous year.
MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings (Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and Metals/Construction). Total NS railroad merchandise revenues increased in 1993 to $2.41 billion, a 2 percent increase over 1992. Railroad merchandise carloads handled in 1993 were 2.82 million, compared with 2.66 million handled in 1992, an increase of 6 percent.
Intermodal results reflect the effect of the formation, in April 1993, of Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership between NS and Conrail subsidiaries (see also page 8). This partnership provides RoadRailer(RT) and domestic container services previously offered by a wholly owned NS subsidiary. Because NS owns only 50 percent of TCSC, its revenues are not consolidated, and NS' 1993 intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail service provided by NS to the partnership. Excluding this partnership effect, intermodal revenues would have increased 10 percent, and merchandise revenues would have increased 5 percent.
In 1993, 97.8 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total rail merchandise tonnage handled by NS, originated on line. The balance of NS' railroad merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some intermodal, water and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS- received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.
The economy improved in 1993, but the pace of recovery was still below the average of post-war recoveries. All merchandise commodity groups showed improvement over 1992. The biggest gains were in Intermodal, up $34.1 million (adjusted for the effect of the TCSC partnership with Conrail); Automotive, up $28.0 million; Metals/ Construction, up $19.8 million and Agriculture, up $18.3 million. There were smaller gains in Paper/Forest and Chemicals.
PAPER/FOREST traffic (including paper, paperboard, wood pulp, pulpwood, wood chips, lumber, kaolin clay and waste paper) accounted for 11 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 13 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993. Compared with 1992, Paper/Forest revenues increased 1 percent and revenue ton miles increased 3 percent.
Weak domestic and overseas demand for paper depressed NS shipments for much of the year. Lumber, however, posted a 4 percent gain in revenue due to a strong recovery in housing construction. Moderate growth, somewhat higher than industry production, is expected over the next few years due to growth in market share.
CHEMICALS traffic (including petroleum products, plastics, fertilizers, nonmetallic minerals, sulfur, chloral-alkali chemicals, rubber, miscellaneous chemicals and waste/hazardous chemicals) accounted for 11 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 13 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993. Compared with 1992, NS' total revenue for chemicals was up 0.3 percent and revenue ton miles increased 3 percent. The lower gain in revenue was due to a change in the mix of traffic.
Gains in general chemicals and plastics were offset by weakness in movements of export fertilizer due to sluggish conditions overseas. Stronger growth is expected in 1994 and beyond, paced by additional rail-truck distribution facilities for bulk chemicals. While environmental concerns could adversely affect production of pesticides and chlorine, increased environmental awareness is likely to have a positive impact on movements of recyclables, hazardous wastes and alternative fuels such as ethanol.
AUTOMOTIVE traffic (including motor vehicles, vehicle parts, miscellaneous transportation and ordnance, and tires) accounted for 10 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 4 percent of revenue ton miles during 1993. Compared with 1992, NS Automotive revenues increased 7 percent and revenue ton miles increased 14 percent.
The gain was due to strong demand for vehicles produced at plants served by NS. NS' largest customer, Ford Motor Company, produced the top-selling automobile and truck in 1993. In addition, NS benefited from a full year of production at the Ford/Nissan plant located near Avon Lake, Oh. Successful marketing efforts, such as an innovative program with GM for just-in-time movement of auto parts, also contributed to the gain.
Further growth in Automotive is expected in 1994 and beyond, as U.S. automotive production is anticipated to increase for the next few years. Within this growing market, NS will pursue innovative marketing programs and aggressive industrial development. From 1994 to 1997, operations will begin at three new or expanded automotive assembly plants located on NS--the second Toyota Plant at Georgetown, Ky., in 1994; BMW at Greer, S.C., in 1995; and Mercedes- Benz at Tuscaloosa, Al., in 1997. The retooling of GM's Wentzville, Mo., and Doraville, Ga., plants for van production should also increase traffic.
AGRICULTURE traffic (including grains and soybeans, feed and feed ingredients, sweeteners, beverages, consumer products, and various other agricultural and food commodities) accounted for 7 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 12 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993. Compared with 1992, agricultural revenues increased 6 percent and revenue ton miles increased 8 percent.
In the early part of the year, NS benefited from a record harvest, that continued well into 1993. During the summer, the flood in the Midwest diverted traffic to rail that formerly moved by barge. In the fall, good crop conditions in NS' sourcing areas and poor conditions elsewhere produced strong NS traffic gains.
Although the special conditions present during 1993 are not likely to recur in 1994, a small increase in agriculture revenue is expected, driven by growth in poultry production in the Southeast, a prime NS feed grain market.
METALS/CONSTRUCTION traffic (including aluminum ore, iron and steel, aluminum products, scrap metal, machinery, sand and gravel, cement, brick, miscellaneous construction, and nonhazardous waste) accounted for 7 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 9 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993. Compared with 1992, NS' total revenues for Metals/Construction were up 7 percent and revenue ton miles were up 13 percent.
Most of the revenue gain was in shipments of iron and steel, where strong industry production and new plants located on NS' lines boosted revenue $10 million. Shipments of construction commodities were also strong due to a recovery in housing.
Further gains are expected over the next few years. NS has initiatives under way intended to win back truck business in aluminum, and several new movements of municipal solid waste are expected.
INTERMODAL traffic (including trailers, containers, and Triple Crown) accounted for 8 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 11 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993. Compared with 1992, intermodal revenues increased 9 percent, and revenue ton miles increased 9 percent.
Intermodal growth in 1993 was led by a 21 percent increase in Triple Crown activity due to strong automotive shipments and expansion of service to the Northeast through the partnership with Conrail. Container revenues were up 6 percent, a smaller increase than previous years due to less international traffic caused by the continuing recession in Europe and Japan. Trailer revenue was up 11 percent, boosted by gains from haulage arrangements with truckload carriers.
Strong growth is expected in 1994 and for the next several years. TCSC should continue to grow as service is expanded to additional markets. Container growth is expected to improve as recoveries overseas produce steady growth in international shipments. Trailer business also is expected to grow, as leading truckload carriers, such as Schneider National and J.B. Hunt, use rail for the long-haul portion of their shipments.
OTHER INTERMODAL primarily consists of drayage from or to rail points and is exclusively related to Triple Crown activity (see discussion of new partnership on page 12). The figures shown for 1993 reflect the results of NS' wholly owned subsidiary which performed RoadRailer(RT) services only for the first three months of 1993 (up to the inception of the TCSC partnership).
MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - NAVL's traffic volume decreased during 1993; total revenues from operations were $714.2 million, down 13.9 percent from 1992, including a 16.2 percent decrease resulting from NAVL's restructuring. NAVL's expenses decreased 11.5 percent in 1993, also resulting from the restructuring.
NAVL's domestic motor carrier operations are conducted primarily through its RS and HVP divisions. In 1993, total domestic shipments for these divisions, including the CT Division through June 25, 1993, numbered 550,207, down 12.8 percent from 1992, resulting from the restructuring. Further comments about each division follow.
Domestic shipments of used household goods transported by the RS Division fall into three market categories. Approximately 50 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of moving services to individual consumers. Another 35 percent comes from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of their employees. The remaining 15 percent is derived from military, government and other sources. Total domestic RS Division shipments in 1993 represented 21 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the three primary divisions. Total domestic revenues from this division were down 2 percent, compared with 1992, and represented 38 percent of total revenues from operations.
The HVP Division specializes in providing transportation services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload (TL) quantities to manufacturers of sensitive products. These products are divided into the following categories: office furniture and equipment, exhibits and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery, commercial relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities. Total HVP Division shipments transported in 1993, including TL and LTL, represented 43 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments transported by the three primary divisions. Revenues from this division were up 15 percent from 1992 levels and represented 33 percent of total revenues from operations.
The operations of the CT Division were discontinued in 1993. Total CT Division shipments transported in 1993 represented 36 percent of NAVL's total domestic motor carrier shipments transported for the entire year by the three primary divisions. Revenues from this division were down 50 percent from 1992 levels and represented 19 percent of total revenues from operations.
FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary, North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating subsidiaries in England, Germany and Panama. Foreign operations involving the transportation of household goods and selected general and specialized commodities generated revenues of $69.5 million in 1993, down 10 percent from 1992. Revenues from foreign operations represented 10 percent of NAVL's total revenue.
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS. The following table sets forth certain statistics relating to NS' railroad operations during the periods indicated:
FREIGHT RATES. In the pricing of freight services, NS' railroads continued in 1993 to increase reliance on private contracts which, coupled with traffic that has been exempted from regulation by the ICC (e.g., boxcar and intermodal traffic), presently account for over 80 percent of freight operating revenues. Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 1993, the ICC found NS' railroads "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1992. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the Interstate Commerce Act when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's cost of capital. The condition of "revenue adequacy" determines whether a railroad can take advantage of a provision in the Interstate Commerce Act allowing freedom to increase regulated rates by a specific percentage. However, with the decreasing importance of regulated tariff traffic to NS' railroads, the ICC's "revenue adequacy" findings have less impact than formerly.
Pricing and service flexibility afforded by the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis on innovative pricing action in order to remain competitive. Since 1980, NAVL has increasingly operated as a contract carrier. As of December 31, 1993, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for the following percentage of shipments: RS Division, 31.9 percent and HVP Division, 72.7 percent; the CT Division was discontinued in June of 1993.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS. Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, N.C. Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Il., were discontinued by Amtrak November 3, 1993. Commuter trains continued operations on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS. During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan, Il., line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced a purchase of service agreement by which NS had provided commuter rail service for the Authority.
OTHER RAILWAY OPERATIONS. Revenues from switching, demurrage and miscellaneous services amounted to $121.5 million, or approximately 3 percent of total transportation operating revenues, during 1993 and $121.7 million, or approximately 3 percent of total transportation operating revenues, in 1992.
NONCARRIER OPERATIONS. Norfolk Southern's noncarrier subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment. In 1993, no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14.
In January 1994, certain Norfolk Southern subsidiaries purchased rights with respect to an estimated 210 million recoverable tons of coal located primarily in eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia. The cash purchase price for the acquisition was $71 million. These coal reserves have been leased to various producers who are to operate and mine the properties under long-term leases providing royalty income to NS.
The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31, 1993, was 20.8 years. During 1993, NS retired 5,576 freight cars. As of December 31, 1993, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 14.6 years. During 1993, NS retired 37 locomotives, the average age of which was 24.7 years. Since 1989, NS has rebodied over 14,000 coal cars. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than is indicated by the percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
NS continues freight car and locomotive maintenance programs to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In recent years, as illustrated in the table below, the bad order ratio has risen or remained fairly stable primarily due to the storage of certain types of cars which are not in high demand. Funds were not spent to repair cars for which present and future customers' needs could be adequately met without such repair programs. Also, NS' own standards of what constitutes a "serviceable" car have risen, and NS continues a rational disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and overage cars.
TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) is heavyweight rail ranging from 90 to 155 pounds per yard. Of the 23,512 miles of track maintained by NS as of December 31, 1993, 15,621 were laid with welded rail.
The density of traffic on NS running tracks (main line trackage plus passing tracks) during 1993 was as follows:
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of 6,584 radio path miles, 374 active stations and 7 passive repeater stations, provides communication services between Norfolk, Buffalo, Detroit, Fort Wayne, Chicago, Kansas City, St. Louis, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Memphis, Cincinnati and most operating locations between these cities. The microwave system provides approximately 2,152,600 individual voice channel miles of circuits, and NS began a conversion of the system from analog to digital technology in 1993. Conversion is under way on all microwave facilities between St. Louis, Mo., and Danville, Ky.; the process is also under way between Roanoke and Norfolk, Va. The microwave communication system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions, and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors. Extension of microwave communications to low density or operations support facilities is accomplished via microwave interface to buried fiber-optic or copper cables.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 13,438 road miles operated by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,274 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems and 2,734 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key locations on NS to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. System operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, this facility affords substantial capacity for, and is utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - NS has extensive facilities for support of railroad operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY.
REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support of its operations. Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana, California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Great Falls, Montana. NAVL also leases facilities throughout the United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.
EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment (tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers. Agents also provide a substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.
As of December 31, 1993, agents and owner-operators together supplied 4,280 tractors, representing 71 percent of the U.S. power equipment operated in NAVL service. Also as of December 31, 1993, NAVL owned 6,981 trailer units, representing 73 percent of the U.S. trailer fleet in NAVL service. The remaining 27 percent was provided mainly by agents and owner-operators. Agents also provided 1,145 straight trucks, or 97 percent of such units in NAVL service.
NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and maintenance of its trailer equipment. In 1993, work orders on approximately 18,574 trailers were completed at NAVL's facility in Fort Wayne. As of December 31, 1993, the average age of trailer equipment in the NAVL fleet was 6.7 years.
COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as shipment tracing. Data processing capabilities are also utilized in revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.
In 1993, NAVL continued implementation of WORLDTRAC(Trademark), a satellite-based mobile communications and position-reporting system. The system allows NAVL, through computers installed in cabs, to communicate instantaneously with fleet drivers while enroute to optimize customer service and to insure customer retention. The ability to locate a driver and communicate instantly has resulted in improved equipment utilization. As of December 31, 1993, satellite units were in place on approximately 1,710 tractors throughout the NAVL fleet. This is a substantial decrease from 1992 due to the discontinuation of the CT Division's operations.
ENCUMBRANCES. A substantial portion of NS' properties is subject to liens securing, as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, approximately $125.9 million and $148.5 million of mortgage debt, respectively. In addition, certain equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $551.4 million as of December 31, 1993, and $593.7 million at December 31, 1992.
Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service are purchased by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and owner-operators under a NAVL-sponsored financing program. At December 31, 1993, NAVL had $27.1 million in such tractor contracts receivable. This program allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the tractors and to resell them under favorable financing terms. The equipment is sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents and owner- operators.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. During the five calendar years ended December 31, 1993, NS' capital expenditures for road, equipment and other property were as follows:
NS' capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the Corporation's ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1994, NS is planning $634 million of capital spending, of which $627 million will be for railway projects and $7 million for motor carrier property. NS anticipates new equipment financing of approximately $72 million in 1994. Looking further ahead, rail capital spending is likely to increase moderately over the next few years. The proposed construction of a $100 million coal ground storage facility in Isle of Wight County, Va., may affect capital spending in future years. However, because of delays in the permitting process and reduced demand for export coal, any significant spending on this project is not expected until after 1994. In addition to boosting capacity, this new facility should further increase the efficiency of coal transportation service and reduce the need for new coal hopper cars. A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.
In January 1994, NS spent $71 million for coal reserves (see discussion on page 18).
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
Costs for environmental protection for 1993 were approximately $32.9 million, of which $28.9 million were operating expenses and $4.0 million were capitalized. Such NS expenditures historically have been associated with the cleanup of real estate used for operating and nonoperating purposes, solid/hazardous waste handling and disposal, water pollution control, asbestos removal projects and removal/remediation work related to underground tanks.
To promote achievement of NS' environmental objectives and to assure continuous improvement in its programs, environmental engineers perform ongoing analyses of all identified sites, and -- after consulting with counsel -- any necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates are recorded (and expensed or capitalized, as appropriate). Evaluations of other sites are ongoing. NS also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior managers, to prescribe and direct its environmental initiatives and undertake environmental awareness programs through which NS employees will receive training.
Certain NS rail subsidiaries have received notices from the Environmental Protection Agency that they are potentially responsible parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) which generally imposes joint and several liability for cleanup costs. State agencies also have notified certain NS rail subsidiaries that they may be potentially responsible for environmental damages, and in several instances they have agreed voluntarily to initiate cleanup.
For CERCLA sites and all other known environmental incidents where loss or liability is probable, NS has recorded an estimated liability. The amount of that liability, which includes estimated costs of remediation (and any associated restoration) on a site-by-site basis, is expected to be paid over several years. Although the estimated liability usually is expensed in the year it is recorded, certain expenditures relating to real estate development projects have been capitalized. Claims, if any, against third parties for recovery of remediation costs incurred by NS are reflected as receivables in the balance sheet and not netted against the associated NS liability.
Estimates of a company's potential financial exposure even for known environmental claims or incidents are necessarily imprecise because of the widely varying costs of available remediation techniques, the difficulty of determining in advance the nature and extent of contamination and each potential participant's share of an estimated loss, and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing liability.
The risk of incurring environmental liability -- for acts and omissions, both past and current -- is inherent in railroad operations. Moreover, some of the commodities, particularly those
classified as hazardous materials, in NS' traffic mix can pose special risks, which NS and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS subsidiaries have land holdings that may be leased (and operated by others) or held for sale. Because certain conditions may exist on these properties for which NS ultimately may bear some financial responsibility, there can be no assurance that NS will not incur liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of which, to a single accounting period or in the aggregate, cannot be estimated reliably now, related to environmental problems that are latent or undiscovered.
However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now known and after consulting with its legal counsel, Management believes that it has recorded appropriate estimates of liability for those environmental matters of which NS is aware.
At year end, a grand jury investigation was under way regarding possible violations of certain environmental statutes in 1989 at Moberly Yard, Moberly, Mo. A more detailed report of this incident, including information concerning its resolution since year end, is set forth under the heading "Item 3.