ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
TABLE OF PROPERTIES
The following table summarizes certain information about the Properties owned as of December 31, 1997.
- ------------------------
Table of Properties Footnotes
(1) While the Company's stated interest in the partnership which owns Norwest Center is 50%, its economic interest in the Property is significantly larger because of priority distributions it receives on its invested capital base. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1997, the Company's share of earnings and cash distributions from the partnership which owns Norwest Center was 79.3%.
(2) While the Company's stated interest in the partnership which owns Washington Mutual Tower is 50%, its economic interest in the Property is significantly larger because of priority distributions it receives on its invested capital base. For the twelve months ended December 31, 1997, the Company received 100% of the cash distributions from the partnership which owns Washington Mutual Tower.
(3) Includes the Galland and Seneca Buildings.
(4) The Company's headquarters are located at Tower 56.
(5) The Property was substantially renovated in 1988.
(6) The Property was acquired by the Company in February 1997.
(7) Property acquired in the DIHC Acquisition.
(8) While the Company's stated interest in the partnership which owns 191 Peachtree Street is 80%, its economic interest is significantly larger since it has acquired the first mortgage note on the Property, in the amount of $145 million which earns interest at 9.375%, and will receive a priority distribution on its acquired capital base. In addition, in 1996 and 1997, the partner in the transaction, CH Associates, Ltd., received an annual incentive distribution of $250,000 which, the Company expects, it will continue to receive under the partnership agreement through February 28, 2000, with the Company receiving the remainder of the cash flow of the Property.
(9) At December 31, 1997, the Company owned the two loans on Market Square. In January 1998, the Company acquired partnership interests with a stated interest of approximately 59% in the partnerships which own Market Square with the option to purchase an additional 1%. The Company's economic interest is significantly larger since it has acquired the first mortgage note on the Property in the amount of $181 million which earns interest at 9.75% and will receive a priority distribution on its acquired capital base. During 1996, the Company received 100% of the cash flow from the Property.
(10) Distributions of cash flow and sales and refinancing proceeds are shared in proportion to the Company's 91.5% partnership interest and Hines Interest Limited Partnership and/or its affiliates' ("Hines") 8.5% partnership interest.
(11) The Company acquired the second mortgage on the Property on December 31, 1997. Since it is currently projected that all the economic benefits (subject to the first mortgage) from the Property inure to the Company, it will be accounted for as an equity investment.
TENANTS
The Company's tenants include local, regional, national and international companies engaged in a wide variety of businesses. The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, information concerning the ten largest tenants (ranked by Full Service Straight-Line Rent as of that date) occupying the Properties. "Full Service Straight-Line Rent" is Straight-Line Rent plus Recoveries. "Straight-Line Rent" means the average of all Actual Rents required to be paid through the term of the lease calculated in accordance with GAAP. "Actual Rent" is actual stated fixed rent received on a net or gross basis. "Recoveries" are the actual recovery of operating expenses in net lease buildings or the actual recovery of operating expense escalations in gross lease buildings. Full Service Straight-Line Rent does not reflect any increases or decreases in monthly rental rates or any lease expirations that are scheduled to occur or that may occur after December 31, 1997 or the cost of any leasing commissions or tenant improvements.
- ------------------------
(1) Net Lease.
(2) Gross Lease.
(3) Norwest Corporation includes Norwest Corporation and Norwest Bank Denver N.A.
(4) The 332,000 square feet of space includes 115,000 square feet currently leased to another tenant, which will be leased by First Union commencing September 1, 1998.
NET RENT AND NET EFFECTIVE RENT
The following tables show the average annual Base Rent and the average annual Net Effective Rent (each as defined below) per square foot occupied for each of the Properties for the periods presented during which such Property was owned by the Company. "Base Rent" as used herein means Actual Rent less Recoveries. "Net Effective Rent" as used herein means (i) Actual Rent determined for each year on a straight-line basis through the term of the lease, less (ii) the amount of operating expenses net of Recoveries and the amortization of deferred leasing costs (tenant improvements, leasing commissions, takeover obligations and other tenant inducements).
AVERAGE ANNUAL BASE RENT (PER SQUARE FOOT OCCUPIED)
AVERAGE ANNUAL NET EFFECTIVE RENTS (PER SQUARE FOOT OCCUPIED)
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
The following table sets forth certain categories of information relating to lease expirations for all of Properties owned as of December 31, 1997.
- ------------------------
Lease Expiration Schedule Footnotes
(1) Net Lease building.
(2) Gross Lease building.
(3) The total square footage expiring in any particular year.
(4) Straight-line rent is the average of all lease payments required to be made through the term of the lease as required under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
(5) The actual recovery of operating expenses as of December 31, 1997 in net lease buildings and the recovery of operating expense escalations in gross lease buildings.
(6) Full Service Straight-Line Rent is Straight-Line Rent plus Recoveries.
(7) Asking market rent is the average initially quoted rent to prospective tenants in each building. All market rents shown are on full service basis.
(8) The number of tenant leases expiring in each year.
RETENTION
The following table sets forth the Company's tenant retention on expiring leases since January 1, 1993. The analysis is based upon the percentage of expiring leases in the applicable building with a tenant or subtenant being retained in the expiring space, or an existing tenant expanding into the expiring space. A tenant lease is added to the retention schedule at the time a lease extension is signed with the tenant, or the tenant notifies the Company of an option being exercised.
MARKET DATA
BOSTON
The Company has four Properties in Downtown Boston: 125 Summer Street, 500 Boylston Street, 222 Berkeley Street and Sixty State Street. The Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, holds the fee interest in 125 Summer Street, which is managed by Hines pursuant to a management contract that, after December 1998, may be terminated upon 30 days' notice. Hines currently owns 349,650 shares of the Company's Common Stock. Each of 500 Boylston Street and 222 Berkeley Street is owned by a separate partnership in which the Company owns a 91.5% interest and Hines owns an 8.5% interest. Cash flow, excess financing and sales proceeds are shared on a pro rata basis between the Company and Hines with respect to each such partnership. The Company consolidates its investment in both partnerships. In addition, through buy-sell agreements that become effective in 2007 with respect to each partnership, either the Company or Hines will have the right to withdraw from the partnership by offering to the other its entire interest in the partnership, or if such offer is not accepted, the right to buy the other partner's entire interest in the partnership and gain full control in the underlying asset. The Company holds the second mortgage on Sixty State Street, behind a first mortgage in the amount of $78.5 million.
The Company believes that the economic fundamentals of the Boston area are strong. The Boston metropolitan area has one of the healthiest economies in the northeast and is the growth leader among the largest industrial markets in the region. As of March 31, 1997, Boston, with a population of 5.8 million people, was the fifth largest MSA in the nation. The median per capita personal income in 1995 for the greater Boston area was $27,361, which was 18% above the national level.
Led by an expanding financial services industry and a revitalized high technology sector, the economic expansion of Boston has been broad based. Much of the city's success has come from the strength of its internal resources such as a highly skilled labor pool, a focus on research and development, local capital sources and a host of firms that have become dominant in their respective industries. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Boston economy slowed and the national recession dominated the area. Over the last ten years, office employment in Boston grew at an average annual rate of approximately 2.0%, compared to approximately 2.7% at the national level. The past few years have seen continued diversification of the economy and increases in total employment. For the year ended March 31, 1997, office employment in Boston grew 5.7%, compared to 4.4% nationwide. The services and the finance, insurance and real estate ("FIRE") sectors dominated local growth, expanding 4.4% and 2.2%, respectively, compared to 4.3% and 1.8%, respectively, at the national level. Torto Wheaton Research ("Torto Wheaton") forecasts a 2.1% average annual increase in office employment for both the Boston MSA and the nation over the next ten years.
As of September 30, 1997, the metropolitan Boston office market contained approximately 105 million square feet of space, over 50% of which was built after 1980. The Downtown submarket, where all of the Boston Properties are located, comprised 48.9 million square feet of office space and consists of seven individual submarkets. Approximately 31 million square feet, or 63% of Downtown office space, is classified as Class A office space. As of September 30, 1997, the Downtown submarket had an overall occupancy rate of 95.4%, and with a Class A occupancy rate of 96.9%, had one of the top five Class A occupancy rates in the nation. During the second quarter of 1997, the newly renovated 590,000 square foot 28 State Street building returned to the market. This property was 85% leased within six months of its completion.
Both 125 Summer Street and Sixty State Street are located in the Financial District of the Downtown submarket. As of September 30, 1997, the Financial District consisted of 30 million square feet of office space, approximately 70% of which was Class A space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 96.1% and 97.1%, respectively.
The Company's other two Boston assets, 222 Berkeley Street and 500 Boylston Street, are located in the Back Bay area of the Downtown submarket. As of September 30, 1997, the Back Bay area contained
10.9 million square feet of office space, 7.0 million of which was Class A, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 96.5% and 96.6%, respectively.
According to Torto Wheaton's second quarter 1997 forecast, demand will continue to outpace supply over the next two years in the Downtown Boston office market with approximately 614,000 square feet of new office space entering the market and approximately 966,000 square feet of net absorption expected during the period.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
The Company has four Properties located in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area: Market Square, in the East End of Washington, D.C., and 11 Canal Center, 99 Canal Center and TransPotomac Plaza 5 located within two adjacent office complexes in the waterfront office district of Alexandria, Virginia. The Company holds the first mortgage on the Market Square Property and has an option to purchase an 85.7% interest in Market Square Associates, the partnership that, together with Crow-Pennsylvania Avenue Limited Partnership, owns a 70% interest in Avenue Associates along with Western Associates Limited Partnership. Avenue Associates holds the fee title to Market Square. Trammell Crow Real Estate Services, Inc. manages this Property under a long-term management agreement. The Company holds title to 11 Canal Center, 99 Canal Center and TransPotomac Plaza 5 through three wholly-owned subsidiaries. These Properties are managed by Faison and Associates, Inc.
The Company believes that the economic fundamentals of the Washington, D.C. area are positive. As of March 31, 1997, Washington, D.C. had a metropolitan statistical area ("MSA") population of 4.6 million people, making it the seventh largest in the country. The MSA includes the District of Columbia, Suburban Maryland and Northern Virginia. The mean per capita personal income in 1994 for the MSA was $27,762, which was 33.4% above the national level.
The Washington, D.C. MSA enjoyed very rapid growth and diversification during the 1980s, with private sector industries such as high tech, health services, telecommunications and biotechnology leading the way. The MSA recorded an annual office growth rate of approximately 2.7% over the last ten years. For the year ending March 31, 1997, office employment in the MSA increased 2.7%, compared to an increase of 4.4% observed nationwide. Over the next decade, Torto Wheaton forecasts an average annual MSA office employment growth of 2.2%, compared to 2.1% for the nation.
The East End submarket, where Market Square is located, doubled in size over the last decade to 24 million square feet of office space. The tenant base in the East End is dominated by services firms, particularly law firms and trade associations. As of September 30, 1997, East End contained approximately 14.8 million square feet of Class A office space, almost as much Class A office space as all other District markets combined. The East End area also includes many government agencies (12% share of the Class A market), several hotels, the old retail corridor and the city's convention center. The MCI Center, a new sports arena located in the center of the East End, will host the professional basketball and hockey teams of Washington, D.C. and is expected to revitalize the surrounding Gallery Place area.
As of September 30, 1997, the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market contained 207.4 million square feet of office space, approximately 63% of which had been built after 1980. The East End submarket, where Market Square is located, contained approximately 24 million square feet of space, over 60% of which was Class A office space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 89.1% and 95.2%, respectively. According to Torto Wheaton's second quarter 1997 forecast, the East End submarket is expected to tighten over the next two years, with approximately 950,000 square feet of new office supply entering the submarket and approximately 1.4 million square feet of net absorption projected for the period.
Northern Virginia, where 11 and 99 Canal Center and TransPotomac Plaza 5 are located, is a relatively new market. Approximately 50% of the 83.7 million square feet of office space has been built since 1980. The real estate industry in Northern Virginia has made a significant recovery from the collapse of the market in the late 1980s, and as of September 30, 1997, Northern Virginia had a 95.7% overall occupancy
rate. While the exodus of tenants from Washington, D.C. drove the Suburban market's early recovery and development, recent growth has been due to the transformation of Northern Virginia into one of the nation's top high-tech areas.
As of September 30, 1997, the Northern Virginia office market contained 83.7 million square feet of space. The Alexandria submarket, where the Company's Properties are located, contained approximately 4.6 million square feet of office space, 2.9 million of which was Class A, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 91.7% and 90.0%, respectively. According to Torto Wheaton's second quarter 1997 forecast, supply is expected to outpace demand in the Alexandria submarket over the next two years with approximately 354,000 square feet of new office space entering the market and net absorption of approximately 146,000 square feet expected for the period.
ATLANTA
The Company has two Properties, 200 Galleria and 191 Peachtree Street, located in the Atlanta market. The Company holds the fee interest in 200 Galleria through a wholly-owned subsidiary. This Property is managed by CK Atlanta Office Management, Inc. The Company holds the first mortgage on 191 Peachtree Street and an 80% partnership interest in One Ninety One Peachtree Associates, the partnership which owns this Property. The Company's interest in One Ninety One Peachtree Associates is accounted for on the equity method, as the Company has substantial control over major decisions, as well as the right to become managing general partner. In 1996 and 1997, the minority partner received an annual incentive distribution of $250,000 which, the Company expects, it will continue to receive under the partnership agreement through February 28, 2000, with the Company receiving the remaining cash flow. Through a buy-sell agreement that becomes effective in 2002, either the Company or the minority partner will have the right to withdraw from the partnership by offering to the other its entire interest in the partnership, or if such offer is not accepted, the right to buy the other partner's entire interest in the partnership and gain full control of the asset.
The Company believes economic fundamentals in the Atlanta market are positive. Atlanta is the political capital of Georgia and is considered the economic capital of the Southeast region. As of March 31, 1997, Atlanta, with a population of approximately 3.6 million, was the tenth largest metropolitan area in the nation. The MSA's median per capita personal income of $24,960 in 1995 was 8% above the national level.
Atlanta's pro-business attitudes and highly-skilled workforce continue to be recognized on a national and global level. Over 400 of the Fortune 500 industrial and service companies are represented in the city. Major employers include Delta Airlines, AT&T, Bell South, Lockheed International Systems and Turner Broadcasting System. Over the last ten years, office employment in Atlanta has grown at an average annual rate of approximately 4.9%, compared to approximately 2.7% for the nation. For the year ended March 31, 1997, office employment grew 6.5% in Atlanta, compared to 4.4% nationally. In the past year, services and retail trade have been the engines for local growth, increasing at a rate of 8.2% and 7.7%, respectively, compared to increases of 4.3% and 2.1% observed nationwide. According to Torto Wheaton, Atlanta's office employment growth over the next ten years will continue to outpace employment growth nationwide. Torto Wheaton forecasts a 2.9% average annual increase in Atlanta's office employment, compared to 2.1% nationwide.
As of September 30, 1997, the metropolitan Atlanta office market contained total office space of 95.4 million square feet. The Downtown submarket, where 191 Peachtree Street is located, contained approximately 15.5 million square feet of office space, of which over 70%, or 11 million square feet, was Class A space. Meanwhile, the overall and Class A occupancy rates for the Downtown submarket were 83.1% and 87.3%, respectively.
According to the Torto Wheaton's second quarter 1997 forecast, the Downtown market will continue to tighten over the next two years, with demand expected to outpace supply. Torto Wheaton projects
660,000 square feet of new supply for the Downtown market over the next two years, with more than one million square feet of net absorption projected for the period.
As of September 30, 1997, the Northwest submarket, where 200 Galleria is located, contained approximately 18.2 million square feet of office space, of which 56%, or 10.2 million was Class A office space. The overall and Class A occupancy rates for Northwest Atlanta were 91.4% and 90.7%, respectively. According to Torto Wheaton's second quarter 1997 forecast, 2.2 million square feet of new supply will enter the submarket over the next two years, with approximately 1.4 million square feet of total net absorption forecasted for the period.
CHICAGO
The Company has two Properties in the Suburban Chicago area, as well as a parcel of unimproved land in Downtown Chicago. The Company holds the fee interest in One Lincoln Centre through a wholly-owned subsidiary. This Property is managed by Hines pursuant to a management contract that may be terminated upon 30 days' notice. The Company has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase Corporate 500 Centre.
The Company believes the economic fundamentals of the Suburban Chicago markets are strong. As of March 31, 1997, the population of the Chicago MSA was 7.8 million, making it the third largest in the country. As of 1995, the median per capita personal income for the MSA was $27,309, which was 18% above the national level. The Chicago area has a diversified economic base, which is supported by a number of prospering industries, including brokerage firms, air travel, electronics, insurance, retail and printing/publishing. This diversity has helped reduce vulnerability to economic swings, creating a stable economy. Overall office employment has grown at an annual rate of nearly 3% over the last ten years. For the year ending March 31, 1997, office employment in the Chicago MSA grew by a rate of 3.8%, compared to a 4.4% growth rate observed nationwide.
As of September 30, 1997, the Chicago MSA contained 188 million square feet of space, 50% of which was built after 1980. Approximately 57% of the MSA's office space is located Downtown, with the remainder located in the outlying suburbs. As of September 30, 1997, Suburban Chicago's 80 million square foot office market had an occupancy rate of 89.9%, compared to the Downtown rate of 86.1%. The Suburban Class A market, which consisted of 30 million square feet of space, posted a 93.1% occupancy rate. As of September 30, 1997, the Oak Brook submarket, where One Lincoln Centre is located, contained 26 million square feet of office space, 10.2 million of which is Class A office space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 90.7% and 91.9%, respectively. The Lake County submarket, where Corporate 500 Centre is located, contained six million square feet of office space, 2.8 million of which was Class A office space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 92% and 94.3%, respectively.
New office development has returned to the Suburban Chicago market, with Torto Wheaton's second quarter 1997 forecast calling for approximately five million square feet to be added over the next two years. According to the same forecast, demand is expected to lag behind supply over the same period with net absorption just reaching over four million square feet.
NEW YORK CITY
The Company has two Properties in New York City: Tower 56 and 527 Madison Avenue. The Company, through separate wholly-owned subsidiaries, holds the fee interest in both of these Properties. Both Properties are managed by HRO International Ltd. ("HRO") pursuant to management contracts that may be terminated upon 30 days' notice.
The Company believes that the economic fundamentals of the New York City area are positive. As of March 31, 1997, the population of the New York MSA was 8.65 million people, making it the second largest MSA in the nation. The mean per capita personal income for 1994 for the MSA was $27,975, which was 34.4% above the national level.
Over the last ten years, the New York MSA sustained significant employment losses, mainly in the financial services area, due to the nationwide recession. The average office employment growth during this period decreased approximately 0.5% annually, compared to average annual increases of approximately 2.7% nationwide. The national economic recovery, coupled with stellar gains on Wall Street, caused the MSA to post a 3.1% gain in office employment for the year ending March 31, 1997. Over the next ten years, Torto Wheaton forecasts office employment to increase by an average of 0.6% annually compared to 2.1% nationwide. Key factors supporting a positive view of the New York City market include: (1) a strong local economy resulting from significant growth in financial services, entertainment and tourism; (2) historically low crime levels; (3) a highly educated workforce with a mean per capita income 34.3% higher than the national average; (4) major barriers to entry, including a lack of well-located building sites and the high cost of building new office space; and (5) the continued trend in the market to redevelop obsolete office space for alternative uses.
Midtown market leasing has been driven by numerous small to mid-size office tenants in the legal, communications, entertainment and financial advisory sectors. These firms have provided sufficient growth to partially offset net losses from corporate restructuring and financial services consolidation. However, due to a significant number of large tenants signing long-term leases over the past few years, smaller transactions are expected to continue to dominate leasing activity through 1999, when tenants who signed 10-year leases in new buildings built in the late 1980s return to the market.
As of September 30, 1997, the Manhattan office market contained approximately 347 million square feet of space. The Midtown submarket, where the Properties are located, contained approximately 244 million square feet of space, 183 million, or 75%, of which is Class A space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 93.1% and 94.1%, respectively. 4 Times Square, a 1.5 million square foot office tower, is currently under construction in the Times Square area of Midtown Manhattan. The building, expected to be completed in 1999, is heavily pre-leased to two large tenants.
The Midtown office market is comprised of 12 individual submarkets. Tower 56 is located within Midtown's Park/Lexington market, while 527 Madison is located within the Madison Avenue submarket. As of September 30, 1997, Class A occupancy in the Park/Lexington and Madison Avenue submarkets was 95.1% and 94.0%, respectively.
CHARLOTTE
The Company has one Property, Charlotte Plaza, located in Uptown Charlotte. The Company holds the fee interest in this Property through two wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Property is managed by Trammell Crow SE, Inc.
The Company believes the economic fundamentals of the Charlotte area are positive. Charlotte is the financial services and distribution hub of the Carolina region and is the largest metropolitan area between Atlanta and Washington, D.C., with a population of 1.34 million as of March 31, 1997. The median per capita personal income in 1995 for the MSA was $22,777, which was 2% below the national average.
Fifty-three of the Fortune 100 companies are represented within the CBD of Uptown Charlotte. The majority of these firms are involved in the finance, insurance and real estate industries. Major employers include Duke Power Company, IBM Corporation, NationsBank Corporation, First Union Corporation, Southern Bell Telephone and state and local government agencies. Over the last ten years, office employment in Charlotte grew at an annual average rate of approximately 5.4%, compared to approximately 2.7% at the national level. Over the year ended March 31, 1997, Charlotte's office employment growth continued to outpace the nation's, increasing 5.9%, compared to 4.4% nationally. During the same period, the services and government sectors' employment levels increased 6.6% and 5.8%, respectively. Over the next decade, Torto Wheaton anticipates annual average office employment growth of 3.5% and 2.1% at the local and national levels, respectively.
As of September 30, 1997, the Charlotte MSA contained total office space of 21.5 million square feet, approximately 65% of which was built after 1980. The Uptown submarket, where Charlotte Plaza is
located, contained 9.3 million square feet of office space, 5.9 million of which was Class A, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 95.2% and 96.6%, respectively.
According to Karnes Research, Uptown Charlotte is currently experiencing a multi-tenant office building boom. Transamerica Square, a 490,000 square foot building, was completed in 1997 and was 100% leased as of September 30, 1997. In addition, the IJL Financial Center (700,000 square feet) and 525 North Tryon (415,000 square feet) are currently under construction for 1998 delivery. Three First Union Center (912,000 square feet), to be developed by Childress Klein and anchored by First Union, is scheduled to break ground in 1998 and to be completed in late 1999. While these new projects are heavily pre-leased, these significant additions will cause the Uptown office market to soften. Over the next two years, approximately two million square feet of new inventory will be delivered, with total net absorption of just over one million square feet.
DENVER
The Company has one Property, One Norwest Center, located in Downtown Denver. One Norwest Center is owned by 1700 Lincoln Limited, in which the Company owns a 90% partnership interest through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ARICO-Denver, Inc., and a 10% partnership interest through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1700 Lincoln Inc. This Property is managed by Hines.
The Company believes economic fundamentals in the Denver market are positive. Key factors supporting a positive view of the Denver market include: (1) an expanding local economy; (2) improving office occupancy rates in Downtown Denver when certain extraordinary effects are excluded; and (3) the lack of new construction of office space in the CBD. Historically, the financial district in Downtown Denver has been a major hub for many financial institutions in the Rocky Mountain region. The Denver population was 1.89 million as of March 31, 1997, making it the 27th largest MSA in the country. As of 1995, the median per capita income for the MSA was $25,501, which was 10% above the national level.
The Denver area has experienced strong growth in office employment fueled by a mix of technological, communications and financial service firms, as well as businesses engaged in tourism and miscellaneous business services. Office employment in the Denver area grew at an average annual rate of approximately 4.0% during the last ten years, compared to approximately 2.7% nationwide. For the year ended March 31, 1997, office employment in the Denver area grew 4.3%, as compared to a national average rate of 4.4%. Over the next decade, Torto Wheaton forecasts annual average office employment growth of 2.7% for the Denver area compared to 2.1% nationally.
As of September 30, 1997, the Denver MSA contained 66.3 million square feet of total office space, approximately 63% of which had been built after 1980. This increase in inventory was largely due to increased interest in oil and gas exploration in the Rocky Mountain Region. The Downtown submarket, where One Norwest Center is located, contained approximately 21.4 million square feet of office space, 11 million of which was Class A space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 90.4% and 93.1%, respectively. According to the second quarter 1997 Torto Wheaton forecast, over one million square feet of new supply is expected to enter the submarket over the next two years, with approximately 1.4 million square feet of net absorption projected for the period.
MINNEAPOLIS
The Company has one Property, Norwest Center, located in the Minneapolis market. Norwest Center is owned by NWC Limited Partnership ("NWC"), a partnership in which the Company owns a 50% general partnership interest. Sixth & Marquette Limited Partnership ("S&M") owns a 50% partnership interest in NWC. The general partner of S&M is also a Minnesota limited partnership in which Gerald D. Hines, individually, and entities affiliated with Gerald D. Hines are directly or indirectly the sole general partners. The Company has the right, at its sole discretion, to become the managing general partner of NWC. Norwest Center is managed by Hines.
The Company believes the economic fundamentals of the Minneapolis office market are strong. As of March 31, 1997, the population of the Minneapolis MSA was 2.79 million people, making it the 14th largest MSA in the nation. In 1995, the median per capita income for the MSA was $26,314, which was 13% above the national average.
The economic base of the Minneapolis-St. Paul area is well diversified. The metropolitan economy includes a broad foundation of income-producing trades including agribusiness, computer/high technology systems, machinery manufacturing, graphic arts, government, medical, and educational institutions. This diversification has helped prevent any major out-migrations during the past and has led to general stability and low unemployment rates. Office employment has been strong during the last ten years, in part because of the area's reputation as a desirable place for corporate relocations. As of September 1996, a total of 32 Fortune 500 companies were headquartered in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Over the past ten years, office employment in the MSA grew an average of approximately 3.4% annually, compared to approximately 2.7% at the national level. For the year ending March 31, 1997, office employment growth slowed at the local level, increasing 2.0% compared to 4.4% nationally. The Torto Wheaton second quarter 1997 forecast calls for annual average office employment growth of 2.1% at both the local and national levels.
As of September 30, 1997, the Minneapolis MSA contained 51.2 million square feet of total office space, approximately 55% of which has been built after 1980. The Minneapolis CBD, where Norwest Center is located, contained approximately 20.6 million square feet of office space, 12.9 million of which was Class A space, and, with overall and Class A occupancy rates of 93.5% and 96.1%, respectively, had one of the top five Class A occupancy rates in the nation. There is currently 1.5 million square feet of office space under construction in two Downtown towers with both buildings expected to be 100% occupied by single tenants. An additional office tower of approximately 900,000 square feet is planned for a 1998 groundbreaking, with over 50% of that project already leased to large tenants. Over the next two years, Torto Wheaton forecasts approximately 1.4 million square feet of net absorption in the submarket.
PITTSBURGH
The Company has one Property, The Frick Building, located in Downtown Pittsburgh. The Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, holds the fee interest in this Property. This Property is managed by The Galbreath Company pursuant to a management contract that may be terminated upon 30 days' notice.
Since the late 1970s, the Pittsburgh MSA has shifted its concentration from a manufacturing economy to a more diversified economic base. In addition to its strength in heavy industry, the city is now recognized as a major finance, business, health care, research and educational center. As a result of Pittsburgh's transition from a manufacturing-based economy to a diversified one, its population steadily declined through the 1970s and 1980s. The population began to stabilize as of 1990, and the current population is approximately 2.5 million.
Pittsburgh is the seventh largest corporate headquarters location in the United States. Nine Fortune 500 companies have their headquarters in Pittsburgh, including USX Corporation, PPG Industries and the H.J. Heinz Company. The Pittsburgh area is known as one of the largest and most productive centers of scientific and technological innovation in the nation.
As of December 31, 1997, the Pittsburgh MSA contained 37.3 million square feet of office space. The Pittsburgh CBD, where The Frick Building is located, contained approximately 24.3 million square feet of office space, approximately 14.6 million of which was Class A office space, and had overall and Class A occupancy rates of 84.5% and 89.4%, respectively.
SEATTLE
The Company has one Property, Washington Mutual Tower, located in the Seattle market. The project site (the "Project Site") comprises Washington Mutual Tower and Block 6 ("Block 6"), which consists of a six-level underground parking facility for 810 cars; an adjacent historic brick building (the Brooklyn Building); three levels of restaurants, shops and service businesses; and, to protect sight lines from
Washington Mutual Tower, two masonry office buildings located across the street--the Galland and Seneca Buildings--master leased by Third and University Limited Partnership ("Third Partnership") through 2005 from Samis Land Company. Wright Runstad & Company has a subordinated equity interest in Washington Mutual Tower and manages the Property for Third Partnership.
The Project Site is owned by Third Partnership. The Company owns, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, a 50% general partnership interest in Third Partnership. Third Partnership is the successor in interest as lessee under a 13-year lease, expiring in 2005, of the Galland and Seneca Buildings. In general, the Company shares revenues equally with its partner, 1212 Second Avenue Limited Partnership ("1212 Partnership") and also receives certain preference returns. In addition, the Company also receives cash flow that is not shared with 1212 Partnership and is currently due a cumulative preference deficit. The Company holds the right, at its sole discretion, to elect to become the managing general partner of Third Partnership. 1212 Partnership, originally the sole general partner, is now the managing general partner with the obligation to manage and operate Third Partnership's business.
The Company believes that economic fundamentals in the Seattle market are strong. As of March 31, 1997, the population of the Seattle MSA was 2.27 million, making it the 21st largest in the country. The MSA's median per capita personal income in 1995 was $28,329, which was 22% above the national level. Annual office employment growth in the Seattle area has outpaced the nation over the last ten years, increasing approximately 4.7% on average, compared to approximately 2.7% at the national level. For the year ended March 31, 1997, local office employment grew 7.3%, compared to 4.4% nationally. Seattle's job base has become increasingly diversified over the last 15 years, thus reducing its dependence on the Boeing Company as an employer. In addition, the Seattle CBD has one of the highest Class A office occupancy rates in the nation (97% as of September 30, 1997). The Torto Wheaton forecast calls for healthy office employment growth over the next decade, with a 3.3% average annual growth rate for the MSA compared to 2.1% for the nation.
The economy in the Seattle and surrounding Puget Sound area is fairly well diversified. The largest employment sector is the services sector, accounting for approximately 27% of the total non-agricultural employment in the region. The next largest employment sector is wholesale and retail trade with approximately 25% of total non-agricultural employment. Forest products, pulp, paper, aircraft, ships and seafood products are recognized as the traditional components of the region's economic base. Several services, such as transportation, engineering and finance, are also exported and thus considered base industries. An increasing share of software and durable goods is also exported, making these industries significant contributors to the economic base. The area has consistently experienced relatively low unemployment in recent years, with rates below the national average, but did experience slight decreases in employment due to layoffs at Boeing during the early 1990s.
As of September 30, 1997, the Seattle MSA contained a total inventory of 54.0 million square feet of office space, approximately 61% of which was built after 1980. The Seattle CBD, where Washington Mutual Tower is located, contained approximately 16 million square feet of the metropolitan inventory and 13 million square feet of Class A office space, and, with overall and Class A occupancy rates of 95% and 97.1%, respectively, had one of the top five Class A occupancy rates in the nation. According to the second quarter 1997 Torto Wheaton forecast, the Seattle CBD office market is expected to tighten over the next two years, with absorption outpacing supply by a ratio in excess of 2:1. The Torto Wheaton forecast calls for approximately 620,000 square feet of new inventory to be added to the CBD over the next two years, with absorption totaling approximately 1.4 million square feet.
SPECIFIC PROPERTY
The following Properties had net book values equal to 10% or more of the Company's total assets or aggregate gross revenues as of December 31, 1997.
ONE NORWEST CENTER
Completed in 1983, One Norwest Center is a 50-story, granite and glass office tower containing approximately 1,188,000 square feet of net rentable area and a 12-level, 1,004-vehicle parking facility. One Norwest Center is located in downtown Denver -- the major business, financial, government and cultural center for the Rocky Mountain region. In downtown Denver, the compact central core area of offices, financial institutions, retail stores, and hotels is bordered by adjacent districts of public buildings. One Norwest Center is located at 17th Street and Lincoln Street on the east boundary of the financial district. Historically, this financial district has been a major hub for many financial institutions in the Rocky Mountain region.
One Norwest Center is owned by 1700 Lincoln Limited ("Lincoln") in which the Company owns a 90 percent general partnership interest through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ARICO-Denver, Inc., and a 10 percent general partnership interest through its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1700 Lincoln Inc. The Property is managed by Hines.
MARKET INFORMATION
See Market Data--Denver above.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES
As of the dates noted, the following percentage of the net rentable area in One Norwest Center was leased at the average Net Effective Rent per square foot set forth below:
PRINCIPAL TENANTS
The following table lists the principal tenants of One Norwest Center as of December 31, 1997:
- ------------------------
(1) Calculated based on a total of 1,187,852 rentable square feet as of December 31, 1997.
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
See Lease Expiration Schedule above.
NORWEST CENTER
Norwest Center is a 55-story, granite and glass office tower containing approximately 1,118,000 square feet of net rentable area and a 340-vehicle underground parking facility. Norwest Center is located at the center of downtown Minneapolis, at the intersection of Seventh Street South and Marquette Avenue. The main business entrance to the building is on Seventh Street South, opposite the IDS Center, a prominent landmark in the Twin Cities. Pedestrian access is also available from Sixth Street South and Marquette Avenue; a grand ceremonial entrance to the building on Sixth Street South incorporates a rotunda and retail banking function.
MARKET INFORMATION
See Market Data--Minneapolis above.
THE PARTNERSHIP
Norwest Center is owned by NWC Limited Partnership ("NWC"), a partnership in which the Company owns a 50 percent general partnership interest through its wholly-owned subsidiary ARICO-Minneapolis, Inc. Sixth and Marquette Limited Partnership ("S&M") owns a 49 percent managing general partnership interest and a 1 percent limited partnership interest in NWC. The managing general partner of NWC is currently S&M. The limited partners of S&M are Norwest Center, Inc., a Minnesota corporation and affiliate of Norwest Corporation, and Faegre & Benson, a Minnesota partnership, as nominee for a Minnesota partnership comprised of persons who were partners in Faegre & Benson as of August 5, 1986. The general partner of S&M is itself a Minnesota limited partnership in which Gerald D. Hines, individually, and entities affiliated with Gerald D. Hines are directly or indirectly the sole general partners. The Company has the right, at its sole discretion, to become the managing general partner of NWC. Norwest Center is managed by Hines.
Under the partnership agreement governing NWC, the managing general partner has the right to manage and operate NWC's business. Until certain cash flow levels have been achieved for two consecutive years (the "NWC Preference Period"), S&M and the Company each hold a 50 percent interest in NWC. After the NWC Preference Period ends, the Company will be entitled to hold a 60 percent interest (subject to increases in the Company's interest that may result from early termination of the NWC Preference Period), and S&M a 40 percent interest. The Company does not expect the Preference Period to end in the foreseeable future.
During the NWC Preference Period, the Company is entitled to receive an annual preference return (the "NWC Preference Return") equal to 7 percent of its capital base, which is $92.3 million as of December 31, 1997. The NWC Preference Return is cumulative, and if operating revenues (after payment of operating costs, capital expenditures and debt service) are not sufficient to fund the distribution of any NWC Preference Return then due, the amount of such deficiency shall accumulate and shall bear interest at the rate of 7 percent, compounded annually. Currently, there is no accrued deficiency outstanding on the NWC Preference Return.
Subject to the preferential distributions to the Company described above, all of NWC's operating revenues remaining after making payments required for the operations of NWC and Norwest Center and the payment of debt service will be distributed 50 percent to the Company and 50 percent to S&M during the NWC Preference Period.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES
As of the dates noted, the following percentage of the net rentable area in Norwest Center was leased at the average Net Effective Rent per square foot set forth below:
PRINCIPAL TENANTS
The following table lists the principal tenants of Norwest Center as of December 31, 1997:
- ------------------------
(1) Calculated based on a total of 1,118,062 rentable square feet as of December 31, 1997.
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
See Lease Expiration Schedule above.
WASHINGTON MUTUAL TOWER
Washington Mutual Tower is a 55-story, granite and glass office tower containing approximately 1,155,000 square feet of net rentable area (including the Galland and Seneca Buildings described below). Washington Mutual Tower is located in the heart of the downtown Seattle central business district (the "Seattle CBD"), at 1201 Third Avenue, with unobstructed views of Puget Sound. The project site (the "Project Site") is comprised of Washington Mutual Tower and Block 6 ("Block 6") which consists of a 6-level underground parking garage for 810 cars; an adjacent historic brick building (the Brooklyn Building); three levels of restaurants, shops and service businesses; and, to protect sight lines from Washington Mutual Tower, two masonry office buildings located across the street -- the Galland and Seneca Buildings -- master leased by Third and University Limited Partnership ("Third Partnership") through 2005 from Samis Land Company. Wright Runstad & Company has a subordinated equity interest in Washington Mutual Tower and manages the Property for Cornerstone.
MARKET INFORMATION
See Market Data--Seattle above.
THE PARTNERSHIP
The Project Site is owned by Third Partnership. The Company owns, through its wholly-owned subsidiary ARICO-Seattle, Inc., a 50 percent general partnership interest in Third Partnership, 1212
Second Avenue Limited Partnership, a Washington limited partnership ("1212 Partnership"), currently holds a 49 percent managing general partnership interest and a 1 percent limited partnership interest in Third Partnership. Third Partnership is the successor in interest as lessee under a 13-year lease, expiring in 2005, of the Galland and Seneca Buildings.
The Company holds the right, at its sole discretion, to elect to become the managing general partner of Third Partnership. 1212 Partnership was originally the only general partner and is now the managing general partner with the obligation to manage and operate Third Partnership's business. Perkins Building Partnership, a Washington general partnership comprised of partners in the Seattle law firm of Perkins Coie, a Washington general partnership, is the sole limited partner of 1212 Partnership. 1201 Third Avenue Limited Partnership, a Washington limited partnership ("1201"), is the sole general partner of 1212 Partnership. Wright Runstad Associates Limited Partnership ("WRALP") is the sole general partner of 1201, and Wright Runstad & Co. is the sole general partner of WRALP. The majority of the limited partners of 1201 and WRALP are current or former employees or other affiliates of Wright Runstad & Co.
Until certain cash flow levels have been achieved for two consecutive years (the "Washington Preference Period"), all of Third Partnership's operating revenues remaining after making payments required for (i) the operations of Third Partnership and Washington Mutual Tower, (ii) net Block 6 costs, (iii) the payment of debt service and (iv) the Washington Preference Return (defined below), will be distributed 50 percent to the Company and 50 percent to 1212 Partnership. The Washington Preference Period is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. During the Washington Preference Period, the Company is also entitled to receive an annual preference return (the "Washington Preference Return") equal to 8 percent of its capital base, which was $100 million as of December 31, 1997. The Washington Preference Return is cumulative, and if operating revenues, adjusted for payment of operating costs, capital expenditures, debt service and for amounts due from 1212 Partnership and a subsidiary of the Company under the partnership agreement, are insufficient to fund the distribution of any Washington Preference Return then due, the amount of such deficiency shall accumulate and shall bear interest at the rate of 8 percent, compounded annually. As of December 31, 1997, the Company is due a cumulative preference deficit, including accrued interest, of approximately $8.7 million which will be reduced as cash flow becomes available. On a priority basis to the Washington Preference Return described above, the Company also receives a 9.53 percent return on an additional equity investment of $47 million made in September 1995. The Company is entitled to receive this return through September 30, 2003, at which time the rate of return will adjust based on conditions in the interest rate markets.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES
As of the dates noted, the following percentage of the net rentable area in Washington Mutual Tower was leased at the average Net Effective Rent per square foot set forth below:
PRINCIPAL TENANTS
The following table lists the principal tenants of Washington Mutual Tower and Block 6 as of December 31, 1997:
- ------------------------
(1) Calculated based on a total of 1,154,560 rentable square feet as of December 31, 1997.
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
See Lease Expiration Schedule above.
191 PEACHTREE STREET
191 Peachtree Street, located in downtown Atlanta, is a 50-story multi-tenant office building containing 1,221,000 square feet. The Property is very high quality and is widely regarded as the best building in Downtown Atlanta. The project was completed in 1991 and designed by John Burgee and Philip Johnson. Attached to the building is a 16-story parking deck with 1,386 spaces. 191 Peachtree Street was developed on approximately 2 acres of land, of which approximately 1.5 acres is owned and approximately one-half acre under the parking facility is leased for a 99-year term expiring in 2087 with a 99-year renewal option.
191 Peachtree Street is located in the heart of Atlanta's CBD, also referred to as Downtown. Peachtree Street is a major corridor through the CBD from which development radiates. The Property is located on the east side of Peachtree Street between Ellis Street and International Boulevard, and extends to Peachtree Center Avenue. The topography of the site slopes down to the east, with both the Peachtree Street and Peachtree Center Avenue entrances at street grade.
MARKET INFORMATION
See Market Data--Atlanta above.
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE
THE MORTGAGE. Cornerstone holds the first mortgage on the Property in the amount of $145 million. The mortgage earns interest at a rate of 9.375% and matures on February 28, 2008. The loan will be interest only through March 1, 1998 and, thereafter, will require principal payments based on a 30-year amortization schedule.
THE PARTNERSHIP. Cornerstone has a 80% interest in One Ninety One Peachtree Associates, the partnership which owns this Property. The Company's interest in One Ninety One Peachtree Associates is accounted for on the equity method, as the Company has substantial control over major decisions, as well as the right to become managing general partner. Through February 28, 2000, the minority partner in the transaction C-H Associates, LTD (CHA) will receive an Incentive Distribution (as defined) of $250,000 per annum. This payment will be made out of net cash flow after the payment of the first mortgage loan described above. Cornerstone will receive the remaining cash flow up to the amount of an Undistributed Preferred Return, defined in the partnership agreement for the Property. Should cash flow be insufficient to repay the Undistributed Preferred Return, the remainder will earn interest at a rate increasing over the next nine years from 7.25% to 11.5%; at December 31, 1997, the cumulative undistributed preferred return was $15,281,555. Through a buy-sell agreement that becomes effective in 2002, either the Company or the minority partner will have the right to withdraw from the partnership by offering to the other its entire interest in the partnership, or if such offer is not accepted, the right to buy the other partner's entire interest in the partnership and gain full control of the asset.
THE GROUND LEASE. A small portion of the site that is below the parking structure is subject to a long-term ground lease from the Ritz Carlton (see above). As part of the ground lease agreement, the Ritz Carlton has its ballroom located in the basement of 191 Peachtree Street.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES
As of December 31, 1997 the Property was 95% leased at an average Net Effective Rent of $24.26 per square foot.
PRINCIPAL TENANTS
The following table lists the principal tenants of 191 Peachtree Street as of December 31, 1997:
- ------------------------
(1) Calculated based on a total of 1,221,000 rentable square feet as of December 31, 1997.
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
See Lease Expiration Schedule above.
500 BOYLSTON STREET
500 Boylston Street, a 25-story, Class A office building containing a total rentable area of 715,000 square feet, was designed by the team of John Burgee Architects and Philip Johnson. The project shares a full city block with 222 Berkeley Street, and together, the two buildings are considered the premier buildings in the Back Bay submarket of Boston. 500 Boylston is comprised of 642,000 square feet of office area on floors three through twenty-five, 8,000 square feet of storage space, and 65,000 square feet of retail area on floors one and two. Parking for 1,000 cars is shared with 222 Berkeley Street and is located on three levels below grade. The 500 Boylston Street site contains approximately 137,000 square feet of land area or 3.15 acres, with approximately 500 feet of frontage on Boylston Street.
500 Boylston Street is located in the Back Bay submarket of Boston. The 500 Boylston Street and 222 Berkeley Street complex occupies a city block bounded by Boylston Street on the north, St. James Avenue on the south, Clarendon Street on the west and Berkeley Street on the east. Development of the Back Bay has historically been subject to restrictive zoning ordinances, aimed at preserving the character of the area and concentrating commercial development along the "High Spine", of which Boylston Street is the center. Companies like John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance, Boston Edison, Bain & Co., Liberty Mutual Life Insurance and The New England are all headquartered in this submarket.
MARKET INFORMATION
See Market Data--Boston above.
THE PARTNERSHIP
Cornerstone has a 91.5% interest in Five Hundred Boylston West Venture, the partnership which owns the fee simple title to the Property. The remaining 8.5% interest is owned by Boylston West 1986 Associates Limited Partnership ("Hines"). Cash flow, excess financing and sales proceeds are shared on a pro rata basis between the partners with respect to each partnership interest. The Company consolidates its investment in the partnership which owns 500 Boylston Street. In addition, through buy-sell agreements that become effective in 2007 with respect to each partner, either the Company or Hines will have the right to withdraw from the partnership by offering to the other its entire share in the partnership, or if such offer is not accepted, the right to buy the other partner's entire interest in the partnership and gain full control in the underlying asset. The Property is managed by Hines under a long-term management agreement.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES
As of December 31, 1997 the Property was 100% leased at an average Net Effective Rent of $26.08 per square foot.
PRINCIPAL TENANTS
The following table lists the principal tenants of 500 Boylston Street as of December 31, 1997:
- ------------------------
(1) Calculated based on a total of 715,000 rentable square feet as of December 31, 1997.
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
See Lease Expiration Schedule above.
SIXTY STATE STREET
Sixty State Street, a 38-story, Class A office building containing a total rentable area of 823,000 square feet, was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill Architects. The project is located on the northeast corner of State and Congress Streets and is considered one of the premier office buildings in Boston's Financial District. The exterior facade consists of granite and reflective glass. The building's irregular shape yields 11 sides and thus, substantial window-office space. Built in 1978 on a 1.35-acre site, the building has three levels of below grade parking capable of accommodating 215 vehicles. The project has benefited from substantial renovation projects and meticulous maintenance and therefore looks and operates like a new building.
The project is well located and convenient to all forms of public transportation and scores of cultural attractions. Most notably, the building overlooks the adjacent Faneuil Hall Market Place and the Government Center Transit Station. In addition, its location provides convenient commuter access from Boston's suburbs. A Houlihan's restaurant and a white tablecloth-dining club called The Bay Tower Club provide additional amenities to the project.
The ground under Sixty State Street is leased to the leasehold owner, Marshall Field, through December 28, 2067. The lease payments on the ground lease are $398,896 per annum throughout the term.
MARKET INFORMATION
See Market Data--Boston above.
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE
On December 31, 1997, Cornerstone purchased the second mortgage on Sixty State Street. The mortgage is a cash flow mortgage through which all the economic benefits/risks (subject to the first mortgage) will inure to the Company. The Company controls all major decisions regarding management and leasing. The total purchase price for the second mortgage was $131.5 million. The $78.4 million first mortgage on the Property has been recorded by the Company as an $89.6 million liability as a result of its above-market interest rate. Cornerstone will account for the transaction as an equity investment in real estate.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES
As of December 31, 1997 the Property was 98% leased.
PRINCIPAL TENANTS
The following table lists the principal tenants of Sixty State Street as of December 31, 1997:
- ------------------------
(1) Calculated based on a total of 823,000 rentable square feet as of December 31, 1997.
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
See Lease Expiration Schedule above.
ITEM 3.