Item 2. Properties.
A discussion of the properties owned by the company is incorporated herein by reference to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are attached to and made a part of Annual Report to Stockholders which is attached hereto as Exhibit 13. Other real estate owned by the Bank as of December 31, 1995, included: (1) a 16.88 acre truck stop located at the Bucksnort exit of I-40 and (2) a one-tenth interest in one hundred acres known as Town Center, located in the southern part of the town of Spring Hill, in northern Maury County, Tennessee on US 31 Highway. The properties are not depreciated.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
General
		First Farmers and Merchants Corporation (the Corporation) was incorporated on March 31, 1982, as a Tennessee corporation. On April 13, 1982, the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted a resolution to execute and deliver to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System an application pursuant to Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, for prior approval by the Board of action to be taken by the Corporation which would result in its becoming a bank holding company.
		As of December 31, 1995, the only subsidiary of the Corporation was the Bank. The Bank is a national banking association which was organized in 1954 as a successor to a state bank organized in 1909. The Bank conducts a full-service commercial banking business at its principal office at 816 South Garden Street, Columbia, Tennessee and at thirteen (13) branches: High Street Branch, Northside Branch, Shady Brook Mall Branch, Hatcher Lane Branch, and Campbell Plaza Branch in Columbia; Mt. Pleasant Branch in Mt. Pleasant; Spring Hill Branch in Spring Hill; Lawrenceburg Branch in Lawrenceburg; Leoma Branch in Leoma; Loretto Branch in Loretto; Lewisburg Branch in Lewisburg; Chapel Hill Branch in Chapel Hill; and Centerville Branch in Centerville. The Bank provides automatic teller machine services in the Northfield Complex at the Saturn location near Spring Hill, and in Columbia at the Tennessee Farm Bureau and Columbia State Community College.
		The community service area of the Bank is comprised of Maury, Lawrence, Marshall, Hickman, and adjacent counties. Commercial banking in the marketing area served by the Bank is highly competitive. Although the Bank is ranked as the largest bank in the area, in terms of total deposits, the Bank faces substantial competition from ten (10) other banks, three (3) savings and loan associations, and several credit unions located in the marketing area.
Accounting Policies
		The accounting principles followed and the methods of applying those principles conform with generally accepted accounting principles and to general practices in the banking industry. The significant policies are summarized as follows.
Principles of Consolidation
		The accompanying consolidated financial statements present the accounts of the Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bank. Material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements
		The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Due From Banks
		Included in cash and due from banks are legally reserved amounts which are required to be maintained on an average basis in the form of cash and balances due from the Federal Reserve Bank and other banks. Average reserve requirements for the year ended December 31, 1995, amounted to approximately $8.3 million.
Cash Equivalents
		Cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash due from banks, and federal funds sold. Federal funds are sold for one-day periods.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Securities
		Effective January 1, 1994, the Bank adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (SFAS 115), "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." In accordance with the Statement, prior period financial statements have not been restated to reflect the change in accounting principle. The cumulative effect of the adoption was an increase in stockholders' equity of $257,108 (net of $171,405 in deferred income taxes) to reflect the net unrealized gains on securities classified as available-for-sale that were previously classified as held-to-maturity. SFAS 115 establishes standards of accounting and reporting for investments in equity securities that have readily determinable fair values and all debt securities. Under the Statement, all such investments are classified in three categories and accounted for as follows:
		Debt securities that the Bank has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost with premiums and discounts recognized in interest income using the interest method over the period to maturity.
		Debt and equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings.
		Debt and equity securities not classified as either held-to-maturity securities or trading securities are classified as available-for-sale securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Gains and losses realized on the sale of available-for-sale securities are determined using the specific identification method.
		Declines in the fair value of individual available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities below their cost that are other than temporary result in write-downs of the individual securities to their fair value. The related write-downs are included in earnings as realized losses.
		On November 15, 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a guide for implementation of SFAS 115 which allowed a bank to reassess the appropriateness of the classification of all securities held at that date and account for resulting reclassifications as a transfer until December 31, 1995. Reclassification from the held-to-maturity category that resulted from this one-time reassessment would not call into question the intent of a bank to hold other debt securities to maturity in the future. The Bank did not reclassify any debt securities as a result of this one-time reassessment.
Loans
		Effective January 1, 1995, the Bank adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114 (SFAS 114, as amended by SFAS 118), "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan". The statement specifies how allowances for credit losses related to certain loans should be determined and addresses the accounting for certain loans that are restructured in a troubled debt restructuring. A loan is considered impaired when it is probable that an institution will be unable to collect all amounts due (principal and interest) according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. The Bank evaluates smaller balance homogeneous loans collectively for impairment. Loans secured by one to four family residential properties, consumer installment loans, and line of credit loans are considered smaller-balance homogeneous loans.
		Interest on loans is computed daily based on the principal amount outstanding. Loan origination fees and related direct costs are deferred and recognized as an adjustment of yield on the interest method. Interest accruals are discontinued when, in the opinion of management, it is not reasonable to expect that such interest will be collected. Consequently, interest accruals are discontinued on loans that are ninety days past-due. All loans
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Loans (Continued)
in non-accrual status and loans in the two most severe Loan Review classifications are specifically evaluated for impairment. Interest income on loans in non-accrual status is recognized only to the extent of the excess of cash payments received over principal payments due.
		When a loan is collateral dependent, impairment is measured based on the observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. For other loans, the amount of impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate. Positive changes in the net present value of an impaired loan will in no event be used to increase the value of a loan above the amount of the loan.
	Other Real Estate
		Other real estate, which is included in other assets, represents real estate acquired through foreclosure and is stated at the lower of cost or fair value minus estimated cost to sell. If, at the time of foreclosure, the fair value of the real estate is less than the Bank's carrying value of the related loan, a write-down is recognized through a charge to the allowance for possible loan losses, and the fair value becomes the new cost for subsequent accounting. If the Bank later determines that the cost of the property cannot be recovered through sale or use, a write-down is recognized by a charge to operations. When the property is not in a condition suitable for sale or use at the time of foreclosure, completion and holding costs, including such items as real estate taxes, maintenance and insurance, are capitalized up to the estimated net realizable value of the property. However, when the property is in a condition for sale or use at the time of foreclosure. or the property is already carried at its estimated net realizable value, any subsequent holding costs are expensed. Legal fees and any other direct costs relating to foreclosures are charged to operations when incurred.
		The Bank's recorded value for other real estate was approximately $482,945 at December 31, 1995, and $544,540 at December 31, 1994.
Allowance for Possible Loan Losses
	The allowance for possible loan losses is established by charges to operations based on the evaluation of the impairment of loans by Loan Review, the Special Assets Committee, and the Credit Administrator. Impairments in loans are charged to the allowance account in the period such determination is made. Recoveries on loans previously charged off are credited to the allowance account in the period received. The adequacy of the allowance for possible loan losses is evaluated quarterly in conjunction with loan review reports and evaluations that are discussed in a meeting with loan officers and loan administration.
Premises and Equipment
		Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. The provision for depreciation is computed principally on an accelerated cost recovery method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range as follows: buildings - 15 to 50 years and equipment - 3-33 years. Costs of major additions and improvements are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Gains or losses from the disposition of property are reflected in operations, and the asset accounts and related allowances for depreciation are reduced.
Trust Department Income
		Trust department income is recognized on the accrual basis in the applicable period earned.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)
Stock Split
		During 1994, the Corporation amended its corporate charter to increase the number of authorized shares of its common stock from 2,000,000 to 4,000,000 shares and on April 12, 1994, the Corporation's stockholders approved a two-for-one split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend distributed May 30, 1994, to shareholders of record on April 12, 1994. In accordance with State corporate legal requirements, the transaction was recorded by a transfer from retained earnings to common stock in the amount of $7,000,000 ($10 for each additional share issued). All per share and share data in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been restated to give retroactive effect to the transaction.
Income Taxes
		The companies file a consolidated federal income tax return. They adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS 109), "Accounting For Income Taxes", effective January 1, 1993. SFAS 109 requires an asset and liability approach to financial accounting and reporting for income taxes. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed annually for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future based on enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
		Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Income tax expense is the tax payable or refundable for the period plus or minus the change during the period in deferred tax assets and liabilities. The cumulative effect, as of January 1, 1993, of this change in the method of accounting for income taxes was negligible.
Intangible Assets
	Deposit base intangibles identified in merger transactions are amortized over 42 to 70 months on the straight-line method. Total amortization expense charged to operations amounted to: 1995 - $168,020; 1994 - $168,020; and 1993 - $168,020.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
		Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107 (SFAS 107), "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments", requires all entities to disclose the estimated fair value of its financial instrument assets and liabilities. For the Bank, as for most financial institutions, almost all of its assets and liabilities are considered financial instruments as defined in SFAS 107. Many of the Bank's financial instruments, however, lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an unforced, unforeclosed transaction. Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used by the Bank for the purposes of this disclosure.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES
		The following tables reflect the amortized value and fair value of investment securities.
		Securities with an amortized value of $93,101,954 and $81,583,779 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively (fair value: 1995 - $93,937,766; 1994 - $80,148,047), were pledged to secure deposits and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. The fair value is established by an independent pricing service as of the approximate dates indicated. The differences between the amortized value and fair value reflect current interest rates and represent the potential gain (or loss) had the portfolio been liquidated on that date. Security gains (or losses) are realized only in the event of dispositions prior to maturity. The fair values of all securities at December 31, 1995, either equaled or exceeded the cost of those securities, or the decline in fair value is considered temporary.
		A schedule of net gains and losses realized on the disposition of investment securities, and the related tax effects, is presented in the following table. All net gains realized in 1995 and net losses realized in 1994 resulted from sales of securities which were classified as available-for-sale.
							
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES (Continued)
		Proceeds from the maturity, call, or sale of available-for-sale securities were $7,306,453, $25,152,051, and $-0- during 1995, 1994, and 1993 respectively. Proceeds from the maturity or call of held-to-maturity securities were $18,848,992, $5,092,000, and $30,497,983 during 1995, 1994, and 1993 respectively. Gross gains of $1,182 and gross losses of $-0- were realized on the dispositions in 1995. Gross gains of $-0- and gross losses of $243,690 were realized on the dispositions in 1994. Gross gains of $23,896 and gross losses of $ -0- were realized on the dispositions in 1993. At December 31, 1995, the Corporation did not hold investment securities of any single issuer, other than obligations of the U.S. Treasury and other U.S. Government agencies, whose aggregate book value exceeded ten percent of stockholders' equity.
	 	The following table shows the amortized value, fair value, and weighted yields (for tax-exempt obligations on a fully taxable basis assuming a 34% tax rate) of investment securities at December 31, 1995, by contractual maturity. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations.
							
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 3 - LOANS
		A summary of loans outstanding by category follows.
					 		A summary of loan maturities and the amounts of loans carrying fixed and variable interest rates as of December 31, 1995, follows.
	Loans having recorded investments of $5,856,000 at December 31, 1995, have been identified as impaired in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114. The total allowance for possible loan losses related to these loans was $456,000. Interest received on these loans during 1995 was $532,873. Prior to adoption of SFAS 114, non-performing loans were those which were accounted for on a non-accrual basis. Such loans had outstanding balances of approximately $2,611,000 at December 31, 1994.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 3 - LOANS (Continued)
		Certain parties (principally directors and senior officers of the Corporation or the Bank, including their affiliates, families, and companies in which they hold ten percent or more ownership) were customers of, and had loans and other transactions with, the Bank in the ordinary course of business. An analysis of activity with respect to such loans for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, follows.
										
		These totals exclude loans made in the ordinary course of business to other companies with which neither the Corporation nor the Bank has a relationship other than the association of one of its directors in the capacity of officer or director. These loan transactions were made on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable loans to other persons. They did not involve more than the normal risk of collectiblity or present other unfavorable features. No related party loans were charged off in 1995 or 1994.
NOTE 4 - ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE LOAN LOSSES
		Changes in the allowance for possible loan losses are as follows:
							
		For federal income tax purposes, the allowance for possible loan losses is maintained at the maximum allowable by the Internal Revenue Code.
NOTE 5 - BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
		The components of premises and equipment are as follows:
		Annual provisions for depreciation and amortization total $645,816 for 1995, $589,045 for 1994, and $591,486 for 1993. Included in premises and equipment cost and allowance for depreciation and amortization are certain fully depreciated assets totaling $2,287,900 at December 31, 1995.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 6 - LIMITATION ON SUBSIDIARY DIVIDENDS
		The approval of the Comptroller of the Currency is required before the Bank's dividends in a given year may exceed the total of its net profit (as defined) for the year combined with retained net profits of the preceding two years. As of December 31, 1995, additional dividends of approximately $13,500,000 could have been declared by the Bank to the Corporation without regulatory agency approval.
NOTE 7 - LEASES
		Real property for four of the Bank's office locations and certain equipment are leased under noncancelable operating leases expiring at various times through 2000. In most cases, the leases provide for one or more renewal options of five to ten years under the same or similar terms. In addition, various items of teller and office equipment are leased under cancelable and noncancelable operating leases. Total rental expense incurred under all operating leases, including short-term leases with terms of less than one month, amounted to $660,121, $409,764, and $254,121 for equipment leases, and $111,649, $97,966, and $82,030 for building leases, in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively. Future minimum lease commitments as of December 31, 1995, under all noncancelable operating leases with initial terms of one year or more follow.
							
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 8 - FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAXES (Continued)
		The deferred tax effects of principal temporary differences are shown in the following table:
		A reconciliation of total income taxes reported with the amount of income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate (34% each year) is shown below. Total income taxes paid in 1995, 1994, and 1993 amounted to $2,756,442, $2,431,332 and $2,564,887, respectively.
							
		A net deferred tax asset was included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
NOTE 9 - COMMITMENTS
		The Bank is a party to financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit. Those instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk in excess of the amount recognized in the balance sheet. The contract or notional amounts of those instruments reflect the extent of involvement the Bank has in those particular financial instruments.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 9 - COMMITMENTS (Continued)
		The total outstanding loan commitments and stand-by letters of credit in the normal course of business at December 31, 1995, were $21,739,000 and $1,699,000, respectively. Loan commitments are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is not a violation of any condition established in the contract. Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Those guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar transactions. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in making a loan.
		The loan portfolio is well diversified with loans generally secured by tangible personal property, real property, or stock. The loans are expected to be repaid from cash flow or proceeds from the sale of selected assets of the borrowers. Collateral requirements for the loan portfolio are based on credit evaluation of the customer. It is management's opinion that there is not a concentration of credit risk in the portfolio.
NOTE 10 - SUPPLEMENTARY CASH FLOW INFORMATION
		Interest paid on deposits and other borrowings during 1995, 1994, and 1993 amounted to $14,845,299, $12,641,299, and $12,243,317, respectively.
NOTE 11 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
		The Bank contributes to a defined contribution, profit-sharing plan covering employees who meet participation requirements. The amount of the contribution is discretionary as determined by the Board of Directors up to the maximum deduction allowed for federal income tax purposes. Contributions to the plan, that amounted to $633,459, $602,010, and $529,324, in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively, are included in salaries and employee benefits expense.
		In 1992, the Bank formalized a nonqualified salary continuation plan for certain key officers. In connection with this plan, the value of the assets (1995 - $594,221; 1994 - $580,088) used to fund the plan and the related liability (1995 - - $482,272; 1994 - $400,606) were included in other assets and other liabilities respectively. Single premium universal life insurance policies were purchased in 1993 to replace other policies and annuities that were redeemed. Insurance premiums of $515,000 were paid during 1993, of which $285,725 (net of the redemption proceeds) was capitalized. Net non-cash income of $14,133 in 1995 and $22,448 in 1994 is also included in the above asset values. The principal cost of this plan will be accrued over the anticipated remaining period of active employment, based on the present value of the expected retirement benefit. Expense related to this plan was $106,666 in 1995, $98,925 in 1994, and $91,916 in 1993.
The Bank also implemented a deferred compensation plan which permitted directors, beginning in 1993, to defer their director's fees and earn interest on the deferred amount. A liability increase and expense of $176,727 for 1995, $126,262 for 1994, and $125,036 for 1993 were recognized in the accompanying financial statements. In connection with this plan, a single premium universal life insurance policy was purchased on the life of each director who elected to participate. Insurance premiums of $1,425,000 were paid at the end of 1992, of which $1,399,816 was capitalized to reflect the cash surrender value at December 31, 1992. Additional single premium universal life insurance policies were purchased in 1993 for new participants. Insurance premiums of $215,000 were paid during 1993 and capitalized. Net non-cash income of $51,803 in 1995 and $52,840 in 1994 is also included in the cash surrender values of $1,801,922 and $1,750,119 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
		The Bank is beneficiary on the insurance policies that fund the salary continuation plan and the deferred compensation plan. These policies have an aggregate face amount of $2,425,000.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 12 - QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
		The following is a summary of the unaudited consolidated quarterly results of operations.
NOTE 13 - SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
		The Corporation and the Bank are subject to federal regulatory risk-adjusted capital adequacy standards. Failure to meet capital adequacy requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiary, the Bank. The regulations require the Bank to meet specific capital adequacy guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. As of December 31, 1995, the Bank's calculated risk-adjusted capital ratios exceeded the minimum standard for a "well capitalized" bank. The capital classification is also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. Management believes that the Corporation and the Bank meet all capital requirements.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 14 - DEPOSITS
		The Bank does not have any foreign offices and all deposits are serviced in its fourteen domestic offices. The average amounts of deposits and the average rates paid are summarized in the following table.
		At December 31, time deposits of $100,000 or more had the following maturities.
						
	NOTE 15 - FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
		This summarizes the Corporation's disclosure of fair values of financial instruments made in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107 (SFAS 107), "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments".
		Estimated fair values have been determined by the Bank using the best available data. Changes in assumptions or the estimation methodologies used may have a material effect on the estimated fair values included in this note.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	NOTE 15 - FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)
		Financial assets - Cash and cash equivalents are considered to be carried at their fair value and have not been valued differently than has been customary with historical cost accounting. Securities available-for-sale and securities held-to-maturity are valued by an independent rating service and are disclosed in detail in Note 2 above. 	A present value discounted cash flow methodology was used to value the net loan portfolio. The discount rate used in these calculations was the current rate at which new loans in the same classification for regulatory reporting purposes would be made. This rate was adjusted for credit loss and assumed prepayment risk. For loans with floating interest rates it is presumed that estimated fair values generally approximate the recorded book balances.
		Financial liabilities - Deposits with stated maturities have been valued using a present value discounted cash flow with a discount rate approximating the current market for similar liabilities. Financial instrument liabilities with no stated maturities have an estimated fair value equal to both the amount payable on demand and the recorded book balance. For deposits with floating interest rates it is presumed that estimated fair values generally approximate the recorded book balances. The carrying amounts of federal funds purchased and other short term borrowings are considered to approximate their fair values.
		 The Bank's remaining assets and liabilities which are not considered financial instruments have not been valued differently than has been customary with historical cost accounting. Management is concerned that reasonable comparability between financial institutions may be distorted due to the wide range of permitted valuation techniques and numerous estimates which must be made given the absence of active secondary markets for many of the financial instruments. This lack of uniform valuation methodologies also introduces a greater degree of subjectivity to these estimated fair values.
	 At December 31, 1995, the Bank had outstanding standby letters of credit and commitments to extend credit. These off-balance-sheet financial instruments are generally exercisable at the market rate prevailing at the date the underlying transaction will be completed and, therefore, are deemed to have no current fair value. Please refer to Note 9.
NOTE 16 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT CORPORATION
					
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 16 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT CORPORATION (Continued)
				
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
GENERAL
	First Farmers and Merchants Corporation, a one-bank holding company, was formed during 1982. Its only subsidiary, First Farmers and Merchants National Bank, is a community bank that was established in 1909. The resulting financial condition of the Corporation should be evaluated in terms of the Bank's operations within its service area.
	During 1995, First Farmers and Merchants National Bank strengthened its presence in the four counties in middle Tennessee that it serves. Deposits in each of the four counties either maintained the same levels or increased while loans in all four counties increased. To more efficiently provide expanding services and offer the range of products that Bank customers need and want, the Bank undertook a technology conversion in the last quarter of 1994 involving data processing and communication links between its fourteen offices. The Bank is positioned to provide quality services in diverse markets and a dynamic interest rate environment. Our customers are enjoying the "Impact" of this change as new services such as combined, laser printed statements; inquiring about balances, checks paid, deposits made, and making transfers between accounts through phone bank; extended banking hours; and a check card. The check card was introduced in the first quarter of 1995 and increased in usage as the year progressed to approximately 35,000 transactions per month.
	The first of the following tables entitled DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY, INTEREST RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL, presents average daily balances, interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and interest expense, as well as the average rates earned and paid on the major balance sheet items for the years 1995, 1994, and 1993. The second table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of changes in interest earned and interest paid resulting from changes in volume and changes in rates. The rate/volume variances are allocated between rate and volume variances in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.
	These tables plus the following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding First Farmers and Merchants' current financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 1995, 1994, and 1993; however, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this material.
FINANCIAL CONDITION
	First Farmers and Merchants National Bank's financial condition depends on the quality and nature of its assets, its liability and capital structure, the market and economic conditions, and the quality of its personnel. The following paragraphs provide a unique perspective on the internal structures of the Corporation and the Bank that provide the strength in our organization.
	The bank's average deposits grew during the last three years reflecting a 1.3% growth from 1994 to 1995, a 6.8% growth from 1993 to 1994, and a 10.4% growth from 1992 to 1993. Average transaction and limited transaction interest bearing accounts grew during the prior two years but declined in 1995 as investors took advantage of higher certificate of deposit rates. The average Chairman's Club, super negotiable orders of withdrawal, insured money market deposits, and flexible investment accounts decreased 7.6 % in 1995 compared to a 9.5% increase in 1994 and a 28.6 % increase in 1993. Average savings deposits actually declined 1.2% in 1995 compared to a 12.2% increase in 1994 and a 12.9% decrease in 1993. Average certificates of deposit increased during 1995 with certificates and other savings under $100,000 increasing 8.0% in 1995 compared to a 1.2% decline in 1994 and a 1.2.% decline in 1993. Certificates of deposit over $100,000 increased 24.8% in 1995 compared to a 10.4% increase in 1994 and a 17.1% decline in 1993.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
TABLE 1 - Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Stockholders' Equity, Interest Rates and Interest Differential
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
TABLE 2 - Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Stockholders' Equity, Interest Rates and Interest Differential (Continued)
	Average earning assets increased 3.0% in 1995 compared to an 7.6% increase in 1994 and a 9.7% increase in 1993. As a financial institution, the Bank's primary earning asset is loans. At December 31, 1995, average net loans represented 65.5% of average earning assets. Total average net loans increased during the last three years showing an 11.5% growth from 1994 to 1995, a 6.1% growth from 1993 to 1994, and an 8.6% growth from 1992 to 1993. Average investments represented 34.0% of average earning assets at December 31, 1995, and decreased 9.6% in 1995 providing funds for the increasing loan growth. Investments increased 11.6% in 1994, and increased 11.9% in 1993. Average total assets increased during the last three years as evidenced by a 2.6% growth from 1994 to 1995, a 7.4% growth from 1993 to 1994, and a 10.3% growth from 1992 to 1993. Please refer to the color graphs at the end of this document that illustrate this growth.
LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY MANAGEMENT
	The primary objective of asset/liability management at the Bank is to achieve reasonable stability in net interest income throughout interest rate cycles. This objective is achieved by monitoring the relationship of rate sensitive earning assets to rate sensitive interest bearing liabilities (interest rate sensitivity) which is the principal factor in determining the effect that fluctuating interest rates will have on future net interest income. Rate sensitive earning assets and interest bearing liabilities are those which can be repriced to current market rates within a defined time period. The following table, Rate Sensitivity of Earning Assets and Interest Bearing Liabilities, shows the Bank's rate sensitive position at December 31, 1995, as measured by gap analysis (the difference between the earning asset and interest bearing liability amounts scheduled to be repriced to current market rates in subsequent periods).
	As a policy, budgeted financial goals are monitored on a monthly basis by the Asset/Liability Committee where the actual dollar change in net interest income given different interest rate movements is reviewed. A dollar change in net interest income for a twelve month period of less than 3% of net interest income given a two hundred basis point shift in interest rates is considered an adequately flexible position. The net interest margin, on a tax equivalent basis, at December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993 was 4.79%, 4.68%, and 4.58% respectively.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY MANAGEMENT (Continued)
TABLE - Rate Sensitivity of Earning Assets and Interest Bearing Liabilities 										
CAPITAL RESOURCES, CAPITAL, AND DIVIDENDS
	Historically, internal growth has financed the capital needs of the Bank. At December 31, 1995, the Corporation had a ratio of average capital to average assets of 10.08%. This compares to a ratio of average capital to average assets of 9.25% at December 31, 1994, and 8.9% at December 31, 1993.
	Cash dividends paid in 1995 were 10.0% more than those paid in 1994. The dividend to net income ratio was 20%. Additional dividends of approximately $13.5 million to the Corporation could have been declared by the subsidiary bank without regulatory agency approval. The Corporation plans to maintain or increase the payout ratio while continuing to maintain a capital to asset ratio reflecting financial strength and adherence to regulatory guidelines.
	Regulatory risk-adjusted capital adequacy standards were strengthened during 1992. Equity capital (net of certain adjustments for intangible assets and investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries) and certain classes of preferred stock are considered Tier 1 ("core") capital. Tier 2 ("total") capital consists of core capital plus subordinated debt, some types of preferred stock, and varying amounts of the Allowance for Possible Loan Losses. The minimum standard for a "well capitalized" bank is a risk-based core capital ratio of 6%, a risk-based total capital ratio of 10%, and a core capital to average total assets of 5%.
	As of December 31, 1995, the Bank's core and total risk-based ratios were 16.8% and 17.7% respectively. One year earlier, the comparable ratios were 16.2% and 17.1%, respectively. At year end 1995, the Bank had a ratio of average core equity to total average assets of 9.9%, up slightly from 9.0% at year end 1994.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Interest Income
	Total interest income increased 11.9% in 1995 compared to a 7.3% increase in 1994 and an decrease of .4% in 1993. Interest and fees earned on loans increased 22.4% in 1995 compared to an 8.3% increase in 1994 and a 1.4% decrease in 1993. Interest earned on investment securities and other investments decreased 10.9% in 1995 due to the decrease in volume compared to a 5.3% increase in 1994 and a 1.9% increase in 1993.
Interest Expense
	Total interest expense increased 19.9% in 1995 compared to a 6.9% increase in 1994 and a 10.0% decrease in 1993. The net interest margin (tax equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets) increased in 1995 to 4.8% compared to 4.7% in 1994 and 4.6% in 1993 as indicated in the LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY MANAGEMENT section above.
	Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis is influenced primarily by changes in: (1) the volume and mix of earning assets and sources of funding; (2) market rates of interest, and (3) income tax rates. The impact of some of these factors can be controlled by management policies and actions. External factors also can have a significant impact on changes in net interest income from one period to another. Some examples of such factors are: (1) the strength of credit demands by customers; (2) Federal Reserve Board monetary policy, and (3) fiscal and debt management policies of the federal government, including changes in tax laws.
Noninterest Income and Expense
	Noninterest income increased 14.9% during 1995 versus a 1.6% increase in 1994 and a 12.0% increase in 1993. The new check card generates fee income from the clearing agent for the electronic transaction even though no service fee is charged to Bank customers for its use. This "Impact" of our new technology contributed to the 16.4% increase in service fees for deposit accounts in 1995. Income from fiduciary services provided in the Bank's Trust Department remained strong contributing 27.4% of noninterest income.
	Noninterest expenses, excluding the provision for possible loan losses, increased 6.2% in 1995 compared to a 5.4% increase in 1994 and a 9.3% increase in 1993. Increased productivity fostered by our technology improvements as the learning curve diminished and cost control efforts contributed to this improvement. Included in this category is Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance premiums at the rate established for "well capitalized" institutions. This expense was $499,709 in 1995 compared to $890,646 in 1994, a 43.9-% reduction. Please refer to the discussion in the CAPITAL RESOURCES, CAPITAL, AND DIVIDENDS section above for more information concerning the bank's capitalization.
Provision for Possible Loan Losses
	The provision for possible loan losses, representing amounts charged against operating income, increased 1.5% in 1995 compared to a 40.4% increase in 1994 and a 44.1% decrease in 1993. Management regularly monitors the allowance for possible losses and considers it to be adequate. Please refer to Note 1 in the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS that are included elsewhere in this material for further discussion of the adequacy of the allowance. The tables on the next page summarize average loan balances and reconciliation of the allowance for loan losses for each year. Additions to the allowance, which have been charged to operating expenses, are also disclosed.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Provision for Possible Loan Losses (Continued)
	The next tables present any risk elements in the loan portfolio and include all loans management considers to be potential problem loans. Management does not believe that there is a concentration of loans to a multiple number of borrowers engaged in similar activities.
										
	Loans having recorded investments of $5.8 million at December 31, 1995, have been identified as impaired in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114. They represent 2% of gross loans. Commercial loans comprised $.326 million of the total, with loans secured by real estate accounting for $4.7 million and installment loans $.800 million. The gross interest income that would have been recorded during 1995 if the loans had been current in accordance with their original terms and had been outstanding throughout the period or since origination, if held for part of the period, was $365, $193, and $189 thousand for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993 respectively. Impaired loans are charged-off once management has exhausted all efforts to collect the loan. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 3 in the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS that are included elsewhere in this material for more information on the Bank's policy regarding loan impairment.
	Inherent in the business of providing financial services is the risk involved in extending credit. Management believes the objective of a sound credit policy is to extend quality loans to customers while reducing risk affecting shareholders' and depositors' investments. Risk reduction is achieved through diversity of the loan portfolio as to type, borrower, and industry concentration as well as sound credit policy guidelines and procedures.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Net Income
	Net income was 10.0% higher in 1995 than in 1994, 5.8% higher in 1994 than in 1993, and 17.0% higher in 1993 than in 1992. As indicated by the table, Comparative Data, the Corporation's return on average assets was 1.32% in 1995, 1.23% in 1994, and 1.25% in 1993. The return on equity remains strong at 13.95% in 1995, 14.11% in 1994, and 14.93% in 1993.
Net Interest Margin
	The bottom graph on the last page of this document illustrates an increasing net interest margin during the five years shown. As mentioned in the LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY MANAGEMENT section earlier, the Bank's Asset/Liability Committee monitors interest rate sensitivity monthly. Through the use of simulation analysis to estimate future net interest income under varying interest rate conditions, the committee can establish pricing and maturity strategies to maintain that steady net interest margin. The simulation analysis uses the repricing information indicated in the table, Rate Sensitivity of Earning Assets and Interest Bearing Liabilities, and adjusts the current balance sheet to reflect the impact of different interest rate movements.
EFFECTS OF ECONOMY
	Current economic conditions have had a definite effect on the reported financial condition and results of operation. The stock market closed out its worst performance and the bond market experienced its largest calendar year decline in modern history during 1994. However, the market was much stronger during 1995 experiencing considerable gains compared to 1994. Many Bank customers had used transaction and limited transaction interest bearing accounts as holding vehicles to watch rate movements during 1994 trying to determine the best time to lock in a rate on a longer term product. During 1995, many of these customers decided that the time was right and transferred investments to longer term certificate of deposits from transaction and limited transaction interest bearing accounts. As Bank customers felt more comfortable with the economy, loan demand increased strongly resulting in a shift of Bank earning assets from investment securities to higher yielding loans. Historically, noninterest bearing demand deposits and regular savings accounts have provided a relatively fixed rate source of funding for earning assets. This was illustrated again in 1995 and 1994 as these fixed rate and noninterest bearing deposits continued to provide a relatively stable cost from this funding source.
IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHEN ADOPTED IN A FUTURE PERIOD
	The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued two standards that have not been adopted by the Bank but are required to adopted after December 31, 1995. The Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121 (SFAS 121), "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-lived Assets and for Long-lived Assets to be Disposed Of" establishes guidance on when to recognize and how to measure impairment losses on long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles. The statement also offers guidance on how to value long-lived assets that management has committed to a plan to dispose of the assets. An asset that an entity will hold and use should be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. In such situations, an impairment loss is recognized if the sum of undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Measurement of the impairment loss, however, is based on the fair value of the asset. Management does not believe this statement will have any material effect on future income.
	The second standard, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 122 (SFAS 122), "Accounting for Certain Mortgage Banking Activities" requires recognition of rights to service mortgage loans for others as separate assets, regardless of how the servicing rights are acquired. This Statement prescribes a single procedure for the capitalization of those rights acquired either through loan origination or through purchase transactions where a mortgage banking enterprise buys the servicing rights. Mortgage servicing rights are to be assessed for impairment
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHEN ADOPTED IN A FUTURE PERIOD (Continued)
based on their fair value. Impairment is recognized through a valuation allowance for each impaired group of mortgage servicing rights. Rights capitalized after adoption of this statement should be grouped based on the risk characteristics of the underlying loans. Management does not believe this statement will have any material effect on future income.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
	The 1,400,000 shares of common stock of First Farmers & Merchants Corporation outstanding at December 31, 1995, had a market value of $75.6 million and were held by 1,514 identifiable individuals located mostly in the market area. A small number of additional shareholders are not identified individually since some bank nominees, including the bank's Trust Department, are listed as single owners when, in fact, these holdings represent large numbers of shareholders. No single shareholder's ownership exceeded five percent at year end.
	There is no established public trading market for the stock. The following table lists the high and low price of the Corporation's common stock, as well as the semiannual dividend paid per share, in each of the last three years.
							
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
										
	In summary, the graphs on the following page illustrate the presentation in the preceding pages, a unique perspective on the internal structures of the Corporation and the Bank. Each shareholder can be proud of this performance. Our shareholders are the real support of our organization. Thank you for your help and support.
Nine color graphs were included on the last page of this report. One - The first graph used the information presented above in the Five Year Comparison table to illustrate the growth in net income. Two - The second graph used information from the Comparative Data on the previous page to illustrate a return on average assets of 1.18% and above for the last five years. Three - The third graph used information from the Comparative Data on the previous page to illustrate a return on beginning stockholders' equity over 13% for the last five years. Four - The fourth graph used information from the Comparative Data on the previous page to illustrate earnings per share and cash dividends per share for the last five years. Five - The fifth graph used information from the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity to illustrate the growth in stockholders' equity for the last five years. Six - The sixth graph used information from the Consolidated Balance Sheets to illustrate the growth in net loans for the last five years. Seven - The seventh graph used information from the Consolidated Balance Sheets to illustrate the growth in deposits for the last five years. Eight - The eighth graph used information from the Consolidated Balance Sheets to illustrate the growth in total assets for the last five years. Nine - The nineth graph used information from the Five Year Comparison table above to illustrate interest income, interest expense and net interest income for the last five years.
Item 3.