Item 2. Properties.
A discussion of the properties owned by the company is incorporated herein by reference to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are a part of the Annual Report to Stockholders which is included in this filing. Other real estate owned by the Bank as of December 31, 1997, included: (1) a one-tenth interest in approximately one hundred acres known as Town Center, located in the southern part of the town of Spring Hill, in northern Maury County, Tennessee on US 31 Highway and (2) a house and two acres on County Farm Road five miles north of Centerville, Tennessee. The properties are not depreciated.
					
								 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.								
								
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.						
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.						
						
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
General
		First Farmers and Merchants Corporation (the Corporation) was incorporated on March 31, 1982, as a Tennessee corporation. On April 13, 1982, the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted a resolution to execute and deliver to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System an application pursuant to Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, for prior approval by the Board of action to be taken by the Corporation which would result in its becoming a bank holding company.
		As of December 31, 1997, the only subsidiary of the Corporation was the Bank. The Bank is a national banking association which was organized in 1954 as a successor to a state bank organized in 1909. The Bank conducts a full-service commercial banking business at its principal office at 816 South Garden Street, Columbia, Tennessee and at fifteen (15) branches: High Street Branch, Northside Branch, Shady Brook Mall Branch, Hatcher Lane Branch, and Campbell Plaza Branch in Columbia; Mt. Pleasant Branch in Mt. Pleasant; Spring Hill Branch in Spring Hill; Lawrenceburg Branch and Crockett Branch in Lawrenceburg; Leoma Branch in Leoma; Loretto Branch in Loretto; Lewisburg Branch and Lewisburg West Branch in Lewisburg; Chapel Hill Branch in Chapel Hill; and Centerville Branch in Centerville. The Bank provides automatic teller machine services in the Northfield Complex at the Saturn location near Spring Hill, and in Columbia at the Tennessee Farm Bureau, Columbia State Community College, and Maury Regional Hospital.
		The community service area of the Bank is comprised of Maury, Lawrence, Marshall, Hickman, and adjacent counties. Commercial banking in the marketing area served by the Bank is highly competitive. Although the Bank is ranked as the largest bank in the area in terms of total deposits, the Bank faces substantial competition from fourteen (14) other banks, two (2) savings and loan associations, and several credit unions located in the marketing area.
Accounting Policies
		The accounting principles followed and the methods of applying those principles conform with generally accepted accounting principles and to general practices in the banking industry. The significant policies are summarized as follows.
Principles of Consolidation
		The accompanying consolidated financial statements present the accounts of the Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bank. Material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements
		The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Due From Banks
		Included in cash and due from banks are legally reserved amounts which are required to be maintained on an average basis in the form of cash and balances due from the Federal Reserve Bank and other banks. At December 31, 1997, approximately $8.9 million was required to be maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank.
Cash Equivalents
		Cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash due from banks, and federal funds sold. Federal funds are sold for one-day periods.
Securities
		 Investments are classified in three categories and accounted for as follows:
		Debt securities that the Bank has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost with premiums and discounts recognized in interest income using the interest method over the period to maturity.
		Debt and equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES(Continued)
Securities (Continued)
the near term are classified as trading securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings.
		Debt and equity securities that may be sold prior to maturity for asset/liability management purposes, or that may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, changes in prepayment risk, to increase regulatory capital or other similar factors, are classified as available-for-sale securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred tax, excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Gains and losses realized on the sale of available-for-sale securities are determined using the specific identification method.
Declines in the fair value of individual available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities below their cost that are other than temporary are included in earnings as realized losses.
Loans
		Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff generally are stated at their outstanding unpaid principal balances net of any deferred fees or costs on originated loans, or unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased loans. A loan is considered impaired when it is probable that an institution will be unable to collect all amounts due (principal and interest) according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement.
		When a loan is collateral dependent, impairment is measured based on the observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. For other loans, the amount of impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate. Positive changes in the net present value of an impaired loan will in no event be used to increase the value of a loan above the amount of the loan. The Bank evaluates smaller balance homogeneous loans collectively for impairment. Loans secured by one to four family residential properties, consumer installment loans, and line of credit loans are considered smaller-balance homogeneous loans.
		Interest on loans is accrued daily based on the principal amount outstanding. Loan origination fees and related direct costs are deferred and recognized as an adjustment of yield on the interest method. Interest accruals are discontinued when loans are ninety days past-due or when a loan is considered impaired. All loans in nonaccrual status and loans in the two most severe Loan Review classifications are specifically evaluated for impairment. Interest income on loans in nonaccrual status is recognized only to the extent of the excess of cash payments received over principal payments due.
	Other Real Estate
		Other real estate, which is included in other assets, represents real estate acquired through foreclosure and is stated at the lower of fair value, net of estimated selling costs, or cost, at the date of foreclosure. If, at the time of foreclosure, the fair value of the real estate is less than the Bank's carrying value of the related loan, a write-down is recognized through a charge to the allowance for possible loan losses, and the fair value becomes the new cost for subsequent accounting. If the Bank later determines that the cost of the property cannot be recovered through sale or use, a write-down is recognized by a charge to operations. When the property is not in a condition suitable for sale or use at the time of foreclosure, completion and holding costs, including such items as real estate taxes, maintenance and insurance, are capitalized up to the estimated net realizable value of the property. However, when the property is in a condition for sale or use at the time of foreclosure, or the property is already carried at its estimated net realizable value, any subsequent holding costs are expensed. Legal fees and any other direct costs relating to foreclosures are charged to operations when incurred.
The Bank's recorded value for other real estate was approximately $410 thousand at December 31, 1997, and $450 thousand at December 31, 1996.
Allowance for Possible Loan Losses
	The allowance for possible loan losses is established through provisions for loan losses charged against income. Loan quality is monitored by Loan Review and
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1 - GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES(Continued)
Allowance for Possible Loan Losses (Continued)
the Credit Administrator. Portions of loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for losses, and subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance account in the period such determination is made. The adequacy of the allowance for possible loan losses is evaluated quarterly in conjunction with loan review reports and evaluations that are discussed in a meeting with loan officers and loan administration. The Bank's past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay (including the timing of future payments), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors are considered in this evaluation. This process is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates that are susceptible to significant change including the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by management to absorb estimated probable inherent loan losses.
Premises and Equipment
		Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. The provision for depreciation is computed principally on an accelerated cost recovery method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range as follows: buildings - 15 to 50 years and equipment - 3 to 33 years. Costs of major additions and improvements are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Gains or losses from the disposition of property are reflected in operations, and the asset accounts and related allowances for depreciation are reduced.
		Certain other equipment purchased for lease to an outside party under a five year operating lease is included in other assets at cost less accumulated depreciation. The equipment is being depreciated on an accelerated basis over seven years.
Trust Department Income
		Trust department income is recognized on the accrual basis in the applicable period earned.
Income Taxes
		The companies file a consolidated federal income tax return. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed annually for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future based on enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
		Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Income tax expense is the tax payable or refundable for the period plus or minus the change during the period in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Intangible Assets
	Deposit base intangibles identified in merger transactions are amortized over 42 to 180 months on the straight-line method. Total amortization expense charged to operations amounted to: 1997 - $182,613; 1996 - $224,212; and 1995 - $168,020.
Earnings Per Share
	The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement No. 128, "Earnings per Share". which supersedes APB Opinion No. 15. This statement requires the presentation of earnings per share by all entities that have common stock or potential common stock, such as options, warrants and convertible securities, outstanding that trade in a public market. Those entities that have only common stock outstanding are required to present basic earnings per share amounts. All other entities are required to present basic and diluted per share amounts. Because the Corporation has no potential common stock outstanding, it is required to present only basic earnings per share and its presentation of earnings per share will not change. Earnings per common share have been computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each period presented.		
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES
		Securities with an amortized cost of $116,315,234 and $103,540,673 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively (fair value: 1997 - $117,969,544; 1996 - $104,061,311), were pledged to secure deposits and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. The fair value is established by an independent pricing service as of the approximate dates indicated. The differences between the amortized cost and fair value reflect current interest rates and represent the potential gain (or loss) had the portfolio been liquidated on that date. Security gains (or losses) are realized only in the event of dispositions prior to maturity. The fair values of all securities at December 31, 1997, either equaled or exceeded the cost of those securities, or the decline in fair value is considered temporary.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 2 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES (Continued)
		At December 31, 1997, the Corporation did not hold investment securities of any single issuer, other than obligations of the U.S. Treasury and other U.S. Government agencies, whose aggregate book value exceeded ten percent of stockholders' equity.
		Table II shows the amortized cost, fair value, and weighted yields (for tax-exempt obligations on a fully taxable basis assuming a 34% tax rate) of investment securities at December 31, 1997, by contractual maturity. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations.
		Proceeds from the maturity, call, or sale of available-for-sale securities were $11,008,435, $3,020,054, and $7,306,453 during 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Proceeds from the maturity or call of held-to-maturity securities were $32,386,811, $56,112,000, and $18,848,992 during 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Gross gains of $489,697 and gross losses of $1,725 were realized on dispositions in 1997. There were no realized gains or losses in 1996. Gross gains of $1,182 and gross losses of $-0- were realized on the dispositions in 1995.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 3 - LOANS
				
		Loans having recorded investments of $2,954,000 at December 31, 1997, have been identified as impaired. The total allowance for possible loan losses related to these loans was $1,146,000. Interest received on these loans during 1997 was $479,698. Impaired loans had recorded investments of approximately $5,136,000 at December 31, 1996.
		Certain parties (principally directors and senior officers of the Corporation or the Bank, including their affiliates, families, and companies in which they hold ten percent or more ownership) were customers of, and had loans and other transactions with, the Bank in the ordinary course of business. An analysis of activity with respect to such loans for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, is shown in Table V that follows.
		These totals exclude loans made in the ordinary course of business to other companies with which neither the Corporation nor the Bank has a relationship other than the association of one of its directors in the capacity of officer or director. These loan transactions were made on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable loans to other persons. They did not involve more than the normal risk of collectiblity or present other unfavorable features. No related party loans were charged off in 1997 or 1996.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 3 - LOANS (Continued)
NOTE 4 - ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE LOAN LOSSES
		In the opinion of management, based on conditions reasonably known, the allowance was adequate at December 31, 1997. However, the allowance may be increased or decreased based on loan growth, changes in credit quality, and changes in general economic conditions.
		For federal income tax purposes, the allowance for possible loan losses is maintained at the maximum allowable by the Internal Revenue Code.
NOTE 5 - BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 5 - BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT (Continued)
		Annual provisions for depreciation and amortization of bank premises and equipment total $651,619 for 1997, $685,005 for 1996, and $645,816 for 1995. Included in premises and equipment cost and allowance for depreciation and amortization are certain fully depreciated assets totaling approximately $2,670,000 at December 31, 1997.
NOTE 6 - LIMITATION ON SUBSIDIARY DIVIDENDS
		The approval of the Comptroller of the Currency is required before the Bank's dividends in a given year may exceed the total of its net profit (as defined) for the year combined with retained net profits of the preceding two years. As of December 31, 1997, additional dividends of approximately $15,900,000 could have been declared by the Bank to the Corporation without regulatory agency approval.
NOTE 7 - LEASES
		Real property for four of the Bank's office locations and certain equipment are leased under noncancelable operating leases expiring at various times through 2008. In most cases, the leases provide for one or more renewal options of five to ten years under the same or similar terms. In addition, various items of teller and office equipment are leased under cancelable and noncancelable operating leases. Total rental expense incurred under all operating leases, including short-term leases with terms of less than one month, amounted to $689,887, $726,337, and $660,121 for equipment leases, and $112,070, $112,384, and $111,649 for building leases, in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Future minimum lease commitments as of December 31, 1997, under all noncancelable operating leases with initial terms of one year or more are shown in Table VIII.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 8 - FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAXES
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 8 - FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAXES (Continued)
		Total income taxes paid in 1997, 1996, and 1995 amounted to $2,927,000, $3,140,000 and $2,756,442, respectively.
A net deferred tax asset was included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
NOTE 9 - COMMITMENTS
		The Bank is a party to financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit. Those instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk in excess of the amount recognized in the balance sheet. The contract or notional amounts of those instruments reflect the extent of involvement the Bank has in those particular financial instruments.		
		The total outstanding loan commitments and standby letters of credit in the normal course of business at December 31, 1997, were $21,735,000 and $1,977,000, respectively. Loan commitments are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is not a violation of any condition established in the contract. Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Those guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar transactions. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in making a loan.
		The loan portfolio is well diversified with loans generally secured by tangible personal property, real property, or stock. The loans are expected to be repaid from cash flow or proceeds from the sale of selected assets of the borrowers. Collateral requirements for the loan portfolio are based on credit evaluation of the customer. It is management's opinion that there is not a concentration of credit risk in the portfolio.
NOTE 10 - SUPPLEMENTARY CASH FLOW INFORMATION
		 Interest paid on deposits and other borrowings during 1997, 1996, and 1995 amounted to $17,049,703, $17,206,708, and $14,845,107, respectively.
NOTE 11 - SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
		The Corporation and the Bank are subject to federal regulatory risk-adjusted capital adequacy standards. Failure to meet capital adequacy requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiary, the Bank. The regulations require the Bank to meet specific capital adequacy guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The capital classification is also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.
		Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Corporation and the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total Capital and Tier I Capital to risk-weighted assets and of Tier I Capital to average assets. Management believes, as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, that the Corporation and the Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.
		The Bank's calculated risk-adjusted capital ratios exceeded the minimum standard for a "well capitalized" bank as of September 30, 1997, the date of the most recent examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the institution's category. Actual capital amounts and ratios are presented in Table XII.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 11 - SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)
NOTE 12 - ACQUISITIONS
		On April 1, 1996, the Bank purchased certain assets and assumed certain deposit liabilities of the Mt. Pleasant, Maury County, Tennessee, and Lewisburg, Marshall County, Tennessee, branches of Union Planters Bank of Middle Tennessee, National Association, Nashville, Tennessee. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency granted approval of this acquisition. Deposit liabilities totaling $19.9 million were assumed in the transaction in exchange for other assets acquired totaling $1.6 million and cash for the balance. The Mt. Pleasant branch was combined with the Bank's office there and the building was donated to the Mt. Pleasant-Maury Phosphate Museum, a nonprofit organization dedicated to preserving the rich history of the phosphate industry in this area and actively promoting tourism and economic development. The Lewisburg branch gave the Bank a second location in Lewisburg complementing the market penetration in Marshall County.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 13 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
		The Bank contributes to a defined contribution, profit-sharing plan covering employees who meet participation requirements. The amount of the contribution is discretionary as determined by the Board of Directors up to the maximum deduction allowed for federal income tax purposes. Contributions to the plan, that amounted to $684,227, $661,307 and $633,459, in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively, are included in salaries and employee benefits expense.
		In 1992, the Bank formalized a nonqualified salary continuation plan for certain key officers. In connection with this plan, the value of the single premium universal life insurance policies (1997 - $645,985; 1996 - $620,657) purchased in 1993 to fund the plan and the related liability (1997 - $501,255; 1996 - $513,792) were included in other assets and other liabilities, respectively. Net noncash income recognized on these policies of $25,328 in 1997 and $26,436 in 1996 is included in the above asset values. Net noncash income was $14,133 in 1995. The principal cost of the plan is being accrued over the anticipated remaining period of active employment, based on the present value of the expected retirement benefit. Expense related to this plan was $42,463 in 1997, $64,024 in 1996, and $106,066 in 1995.
		The Bank also implemented a deferred compensation plan which permitted directors, beginning in 1993, to defer their director's fees and earn interest on the deferred amount. A liability increase and expense, net of benefits paid out in 1997 and accruals, of $173,841 for 1997, $172,871 for 1996, and $176,727 for 1995 have been recognized in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In connection with this plan, a single premium universal life insurance policy was purchased on the life of each director who elected to participate. Additional single premium universal life insurance policies, totaling $385,000, were purchased in 1997 for new participants. Net noncash income recognized on these policies of $103,953 in 1997 and $85,249 in 1996 is included in the cash surrender values of $2,376,124 and $1,887,171 reported in other assets at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Net noncash income was $51,803 in 1995.
		In 1996, the Bank established an officer group term replacement/split dollar plan to provide life insurance benefits that would continue after retirement. A single premium universal life insurance policy was purchased to fund the plan and a split dollar agreement was made with an irrevocable trust that specified the portion of the insurance proceeds that would become part of the trust. The value of this policy (1997 - $819,460; 1996 - $785,330) is included in other assets, and net noncash income recognized on this policy of $34,130 in 1997 and net expense of $9,670 in 1996 is included in the above asset values.
		The Bank is beneficiary on the insurance policies that fund the salary continuation plan, the deferred compensation plan, and the group term replacement/split dollar plan. These policies have an aggregate face amount of $3,163,750.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 14 - FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
		Estimated fair values have been determined by the Bank using the best available data. Many of the Bank's financial instruments, however, lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an unforced, unforeclosed transaction. Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used by the Bank for the purposes of this disclosure. Changes in assumptions or the estimation methodologies used may have a material effect on the estimated fair values included in this note.
		Financial assets - Cash and cash equivalents are considered to be carried at their fair value and have not been valued differently than has been customary with historical cost accounting. Securities available-for-sale and securities held-to-maturity are valued by an independent rating service and are disclosed in detail in Note 2 above. A present value discounted cash flow methodology was used to value the net loan portfolio. The discount rate used in these calculations was the current rate at which new loans in the same classification for regulatory reporting purposes would be made. This rate was adjusted for credit loss and assumed prepayment risk. For loans with floating interest rates it is presumed that estimated fair values generally approximate the recorded book balances.
		Financial liabilities - Deposits with stated maturities have been valued using a present value discounted cash flow with a discount rate approximating the current market for similar liabilities. Financial instrument liabilities with no stated maturities have an estimated fair value equal to both the amount payable on demand and the recorded book balance. For deposits with floating interest rates it is presumed that estimated fair values generally approximate the recorded book balances. The carrying amounts of federal funds purchased and other short term borrowings are considered to approximate their fair values.
		 The Bank's remaining assets and liabilities which are not considered financial instruments have not been valued differently than has been customary with historical cost accounting. Management is concerned that reasonable comparability between financial institutions may be distorted due to the wide range of permitted valuation techniques and numerous estimates which must be made given the absence of active secondary markets for many of the financial instruments. This lack of uniform valuation methodologies also introduces a greater degree of subjectivity to these estimated fair values.
		At December 31, 1997, the Bank had outstanding standby letters of credit and commitments to extend credit. These off-balance-sheet financial instruments are generally exercisable at the market rate prevailing at the date the underlying transaction will be completed and, therefore, are deemed to have no current fair value. Please refer to Note 9.
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 15 - QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 16 - DEPOSITS
				The Bank does not have any foreign offices and all deposits are serviced in its sixteen domestic offices. The average amounts of deposits and the average rates paid are summarized in Table XV. Maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31 are indicated in Table XVI.
		
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 17 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT CORPORATION
FIRST FARMERS AND MERCHANTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 17 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT CORPORATION (Continued)
Item 3.