ITEM 2. Properties.
United States Specialty Products Facility
South Hampton owns and operates a specialty petrochemical facility near Silsbee, Texas which is approximately 30 miles north of Beaumont, Texas, and 90 miles east of Houston. The facility presently consists of six operating units which, while interconnected, make distinct products through differing processes: (i) a Penhex Unit; (ii) a Reformer; (iii) a Cyclo-pentane Unit; (iv) an Aromax® Unit; (v) an Aromatics Hydrogenation Treating Unit; and (vi) a White Oil Fractionation Unit. All of these units are currently in operation.
The capacity of the facility’s processes when taken in total is approximately 7,530 barrels per stream day. The facility generally consists of equipment commonly found in most petroleum facilities such as fractionation towers and hydrogen treaters except the facility is adapted to produce highly specialized products that are high purity, highly consistent, precise specification materials utilized in the petrochemical industry as solvents, additives, blowing agents and cooling agents. South Hampton produces eight distinct product streams and markets several combinations of blends as needed in various customers’ applications. South Hampton produces neither motor fuel products nor any other commodity type products commonly sold directly to retail consumers or outlets.
The products from the Penhex Unit, Reformer, Aromax® Unit, and Cyclo-pentane Unit are marketed directly to the customer by South Hampton’s marketing personnel. These units had the following utilization rates during 2005 on a calendar day basis: Penhex Unit- 88%; Reformer- 76%; Cyclo-pentane Unit- 98%; Aromax® Unit- 65%. The total material charged to these units averaged approximately 3,260 barrels per day, out of approximately 4,130 BPD of capacity (after the March 2005 expansion), or an average of 85.5% utilization for the year. Prior to the expansion, the Penhex Unit was averaging approximately 96% utilization. All production was essentially sold during the year, and no excess inventories were developed. The Reformer and Aromax® units are operated as needed to support the Penhex and Cyclo-pentane Units and therefore the utilization rates of these units are lower.
The other two operating units at the plant site, an Aromatics Hydrogenation Treating Unit and a White Oils Fractionation Unit, are operated as two, independent and completely segregated processes. They are dedicated to the needs of two different toll processing customers. The customers supply and maintain title to the feedstock, South Hampton processes the feedstock into
products based upon customer specifications, and the customers market the products. Products may be sold directly from South Hampton’s storage tanks or taken to the customer’s location for storage and marketing. As of October 2005, after the expansion program, the units have a combined capacity of 3,400 BPD and realized a utilization rate of 1,529 BPD or 45%. Prior to the expansion, the units operated at virtually 99% capacity. The units are operated in accordance with customer needs, and the contracts call for take or pay minimums of production.
To meet market demand, South Hampton increased the capacity of the Penhex Unit by 30% in March 2005. Equipment was purchased in late 2004 and a construction permit was issued by TCEQ in late January 2005. Expansion was accomplished primarily by the addition of two (2) larger fractionation towers and rearrangement of existing equipment. The expanded capacity was put into service and fully operational by the end of the first quarter 2005. Additionally, South Hampton signed an agreement in late January 2005 with one of the toll processing customers calling for an expansion of the White Oils Fractionation Unit by October 2005. Capacity was to be doubled to a minimum of 2,000 BPD and final test runs indicated actual capacity to be approximately 3,000 BPD. The expansion was completed within contract terms and operation of the expanded facility began in October 2005.
South Hampton, in support of the petrochemical operation, owns approximately 100 storage tanks with a total capacity of approximately 320,000 barrels, and 142 acres of land, approximately 78 acres of which are developed. South Hampton also owns a truck and railroad loading terminal consisting of four storage tanks, a rail spur, and truck and tank car loading facilities.
As a result of various expansion programs and the toll processing contracts, essentially all of the standing equipment at South Hampton is operational. South Hampton has surplus equipment stored on-site which may be used in the future to assemble additional processing units as the need arises.
Gulf State owns and operates three (3) 8-inch diameter pipelines aggregating approximately 50 miles in length connecting South Hampton’s facility to: (1) a natural gas line, (2) South Hampton’s truck and rail loading terminal and (3) a marine terminal owned by an unaffiliated third party. South Hampton leases storage facilities at this marine terminal.
Mexico Specialty Products Facility, Coatzacoalcos, Mexico
The Coin specialty petrochemical products facility is similar to South Hampton’s facility in Silsbee, Texas, but is less developed, having only the Penhex Unit. The capacity is 600 BPD, or approximately 25% of the capacity of the Silsbee plant. The Coin facility also produced high purity solvents used in the expandable polystyrene and polystyrene foam industries. In addition, these solvents were approved and used by developers of high-density polyethylene manufacturing processes for use in licensed units. Coin marketed its products in Mexico, Latin America and the United States. With the Coin acquisition, the Company believed its petrochemical operations were a significant supplier of high purity solvents in those markets. Coin employed 24 persons. Coin’s operations were dependent upon Pemex (Mexican government owned vendor) for its feedstock supply. In late 2003, Coin secured a purchase contract with Pemex for feedstock and purchased material throughout 2004 on a prepaid basis at a price competitive with normal spot market pricing.
The Coin facility was shut down much of 2000 and 2001 due to the high cost of feedstock and low margins. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the facility began to operate at reduced rates and in the first quarter of 2002 was running at capacity. The facility operated at about 50% capacity during
much of the remainder of 2002. The Coin facility shut down in early 2003 and remained essentially idle until March 2004. Since that time the facility operated continuously until May of 2005, when the Company sold its interest in the facility. Coin sold its product primarily in Mexico, with the remainder being marketed by South Hampton in the United States.
As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in February 2004, a creditor initiated mortgage foreclosure proceedings against Coin which resulted in a court ordered award of Coin’s plant facilities to the creditor. The Company pursued all available remedies at law, to prevent or delay such legal action, but finally in May of 2005 negotiated a settlement whereby title to the facility was signed over to the new owner in return for a minor amount of cash and relief from certain liabilities. As a result, management recorded the loss on the foreclosure of the facility with a charge to consolidated operations of $2,900,964 during the fourth quarter of 2004. The Company then sold the stock in the corporation to another Mexican entity and recorded a gain of $5,825,668 in June of 2005.
Saudi Arabia Mining Properties
Al Masane Project
Location, Access and Transportation. The Al Masane project consists of a mining lease area of approximately 44 square kilometers in southwestern Saudi Arabia approximately 640 km southeast of Jeddah. Reference is made to the map on page 15 of this Report for information concerning the location of the Al Masane project. Presently, the site can be accessed by heavy trucks via the 20 kilometer improved gravel road from Sifah. The elevation of the Al Masane project is approximately 1,620 meters above sea level. Najran is the major town located in the area and is serviced by air from Jeddah and Riyadh. Access from the town of Najran to the project site is 130 km by a paved road to Sifah. There are scheduled flights from Jeddah to Abha and Najran. From the west, there is paved road between Abha and Gusap, and then a dirt road to the site.
Conditions to Retain Title. The Saudi government granted the Company a mining lease for the Al Masane area on May 22, 1993. As holder of the Al Masane mining lease, the Company is solely responsible to the Saudi Arabian government for rental payments and other obligations required by the mining lease and repayment of an $11 million loan. The Company’s interpretation of the mining lease is that repayment of this loan will be made in accordance with a repayment schedule to be agreed upon with the Saudi Arabian government from the Company’s share of the project’s cash flows. The initial term of the lease is for a period of thirty (30) years beginning May 22, 1993, with the Company having the option to renew or extend the term of the lease for additional periods not to exceed twenty (20) years. Under the lease, the Company is obligated to pay advance surface rental in the amount of 10,000 Saudi riyals (approximately $2,667 at the current exchange rate) per square kilometer per year (approximately $117,350 annually) during the period of the lease. At December 31, 2004, approximately $586,000 of rental payments was in arrears. The Company, in accordance with the most recent agreement with the Ministry, paid $266,000 of the back payments on January 3, 2005, and the remaining $320,000 on December 27, 2005. Additionally, the Company paid $234,700 in March of 2006, which pays the lease amounts in full through the end of 2006. In addition, the Company must pay income tax in accordance with the income tax laws of Saudi Arabia then in force and pay all infrastructure costs. The Saudi Arabian Mining Code provides that income tax will not be due during the first stage of mining operations, which is the period of five years starting from the earlier of (i) the date of the first sale of products or (ii) the beginning
of the fourth year since the issue of the mining lease. The lease gives the Saudi Arabian government priority to purchase any gold production from the project as well as the right to purchase up to 10% of the annual production of other minerals on the same terms and conditions then available to other similar buyers and at current prices then prevailing in the free market. Furthermore, the lease contains provisions requiring that preferences be given to Saudi Arabian suppliers and contractors, that the Company employ Saudi Arabian citizens and provide training to Saudi Arabian personnel.
History of Previous Operations. The Al Masane project contains extensive ancient mineral workings and smelters which were discovered by the Company in 1967. From ancient inscriptions in the area, it is believed that mining activities went on sporadically from 1000 BC to 700 AD. The ancients are believed to have extracted mainly gold, silver and copper. Various regional investigations of the Al Masane area have been carried out by the United States Geological Survey (“USGS”) mission. The first systematic mapping was by Brown and Jackson who published the Geologic Map of the Asir Quadrangle in 1959, and Greenwood carried out reconnaissance mapping in 1974 of the Wadi Malahah quadrangle, which includes Al Masane. Conway undertook geologic mapping of the area in 1976. Beginning in 1972, the Company undertook various geological, geophysical, and geochemical surveys which lead to the discovery of the ore lenses. In 1975, Robertson Research International (“RRI”) reviewed the exploration program completed by the Company, prepared a preliminary economic evaluation on the deposit and recommended ongoing development. In 1977, Watts, Griffis and McOuat Limited of Toronto, Canada (“WGM”) was retained by the Company to study the deposits and an underground development program was recommended to define the tonnage and grade of the deposit. By September 1980, a permanent exploration camp including water supply and power plant had been established. A program of 3,700 meters of underground access and development using trackless mining equipment and 25,000 meters of underground diamond drilling and 20,000 meters of surface drilling was completed by WGM in April 1981 (“Phase I”). Bulk metallurgical samples were taken from underground, and pilot plant testwork was done at the Colorado School of Mines Research to confirm the laboratory testwork completed previously by Lakefield Research in Canada on the drill core. This work was financed primarily with the $11 million interest-free loan from the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Finance. Continued surface prospecting in the immediate area by the Company led to the discovery of the Moyeath zone in late 1980. Although the surface expression of the gossan1 was small, preliminary diamond drilling indicated a significant massive sulphide deposit at depth. Between 1982 and 1987, infill diamond drilling was conducted on the Al Houra and Moyeath deposits which expanded the ore reserves. In addition, a number of studies relating to water supply for the project were completed. Environmental studies for the project were completed by independent consultants in 1995 as part of the bankable feasibility studies.
Description of Current Property Condition. WGM concluded that sufficient ore reserves were established to justify completion of a fully bankable feasibility study to determine the economic potential of establishing a commercial mining and ore treatment operation at Al Masane. WGM and SNC/GECO of Montreal, Canada conducted this study in 1982. They concluded that the Al Masane deposits would support commercial production of copper, zinc, gold and silver and recommended implementation of Phase II of the Al Masane development program, which would involve the construction of underground mining, ore treatment and support facilities. WGM’s September 1984 reevaluation of the project resulted in no substantial changes of their initial conclusions and
“Gossan” means the rust colored oxidized, capping or staining of a mineral deposit, generally formed by the oxidation or alteration of iron sulphides.
recommendations. In 1993, the Company commissioned WGM to prepare a new fully bankable feasibility study to be used to obtain financing for commercial development of the project. The study, which was completed in 1994, contained specific recommendations to insure that project construction was accomplished expeditiously and economically. The engineering design and costing portions of the study were performed by Davy International of Toronto, Canada (“Davy”). WGM and Davy updated this study in 1996. WGM recommended that the Al Masane reserves be mined by underground methods using trackless mining equipment. Once the raw ore is mined, it would be subjected to a grinding and treating process resulting in three products to be delivered to smelters for further refining. These products are zinc concentrate, copper concentrate and Dore2 bullion. The copper and zinc concentrates also contain valuable amounts of gold and silver. These concentrates and the Dore bullion to be produced from the proposed cyanidization plant are estimated to be 22,000 ounces of gold and 800,000 ounces of silver and will be sold to copper and zinc custom smelters and refineries worldwide. After the smelter refining process, the metals could be sold by the Company or the smelter for the Company’s account in the open market. As recommended by WGM, the source of power for the Al Masane site will be from diesel powered generators until such time as the site is connected to the national power grid, which is presently 20 km from the site.
In the 1994 feasibility study, WGM stated that there is potential to find more reserves within the lease area, as the ore zones are all open at depth. Further diamond drilling is required to quantify the additional mineralization associated with these zones. A significant feature of the Al Masane ore zones is that they tend to have a much greater vertical plunge than strike length; relatively small surface exposures such as the Moyeath zone may be developed into sizeable ore tonnages by thorough and systematic exploration. Similarly, systematic prospecting of the small gossans in the area could yield significant tonnages of new ore. The 1996 update showed the estimated capital cost to bring the project into operation to be $89 million. At a production rate of 700,000 tonnes per year, the operating cost of the project (excluding concentrate freight, ship loading, smelter charges, depreciation, interest and taxes) was estimated to be $38.49 per tonne of ore milled. The feasibility study was updated in August of 2005, by SNC-Lavalin, Engineers and Constructors, Inc. of Toronto, Canada using the field work and conclusions of the previous studies. No design work or field work was performed, but the update was designed to apply current costs and metal prices to the existing work. The 2005 update indicates the current capital cost to be approximately $116 million with an additional $7 million needed for the addition of a Gold Recovery Circuit (“GRC”). The updated operating costs are estimated to be $53.37 per tonne of ore milled, without the GRC, or $60.01 with the GRC
Metal prices were at record lows worldwide during 2003, and therefore, mining projects were not economically feasible. As the prices have recovered for the 2004-2005 time period, the project becomes near breakeven over the three year period. If spot prices as of December 31, 2005, are used in the analysis, or even the ten year average of prices is used, the project becomes very economically attractive. Mining economics, as with other capital intensive extractive industries such as offshore petroleum exploration, will vary over time as market prices rise and fall with worldwide economic performance.
“Dore” means unrefined gold and silver bullion bars consisting of approximately 90% precious metals which will be further refined to almost pure metal.
The following chart illustrates the change from the record low prices of 2003 and 2005 to current levels:
Other than a base camp with accompanying facilities and equipment, as well as 3,700 meters of underground access and water wells completed by WGM in April 1981, there has been no other significant infrastructure development by the Company at the Al Masane project. As noted above, the estimated total capital cost to bring the Al Masane project into production is $116 million. The Company does not presently have sufficient funds to bring this project into production. Also, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of these matters.
Pursuant to the mining lease agreement, when the Al Masane project is profitable the Company is obligated to form a Saudi public stock company with the Saudi Arabian Mining Company, a corporation wholly owned by the Saudi Arabian government (“Ma’aden”), as successor to and assignee of the mining interests formerly held by the Petroleum Mineral Organization (“Petromin”). Ma’aden is the Saudi Arabian government’s official mining company. In 1994, the Company received instructions from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stating that it is possible for the Company to form a Saudi company without Petromin (now Ma’aden), but the sale of stock to the Saudi public could not occur until the mine’s commercial operations were profitable for at least two years. The instructions added that Petromin (now Ma’aden) still had the right to purchase shares in the Saudi public stock company any time it desires. Title to the mining lease and the other obligations specified in the mining lease would be transferred to the Saudi public stock company. However, the Company would remain responsible for repaying the $11 million loan to the Saudi Arabian government.
In order to commercially develop the Al Masane project, the Company entered into a joint venture arrangement with Al Mashreq Company for Mining Investments (“Al Mashreq”), a Saudi limited liability company owned by Saudi Arabian investors (including certain of the Company’s shareholders). The partners formed The Arabian Shield Company for Mining Industries Ltd., a Saudi limited liability company (“Arabian Mining”), which was officially registered and licensed in August 1998 to conduct business in Saudi Arabia and authorized to mine and process minerals from the Al Masane lease area. Arabian Mining received conditional approval for a $38.1 million interest-free loan from Saudi Industrial Development Fund (“SIDF”), and deposited $26 million of equity capital into its bank account. In 1998, due to the severe decline in the open market prices for the minerals to be produced by the Al Masane project and the financial crisis affecting southeast Asia, SIDF and other potential lenders required additional guarantees and other financing conditions which were unacceptable to the Company and Al Mashreq. As a consequence, Al Mashreq withdrew from the joint venture and all equity capital was returned. By letter dated May 11, 1999, the Company informed the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources (the “Ministry”) that the recent sharp drop in the
market prices of the metals to be produced from the mine at Al Masane, as a result of the economic crisis in southeast Asia, made implementation of the development of the mine uneconomical at that time and that, as a result, the Company would delay implementation of the project until metal prices recovered.
The Ministry notified the Company one year later that it must immediately implement the project and in the fall of 2000 further notified the Company that the project should be immediately implemented or the mining lease would be terminated. A second notice from the Ministry several weeks later stated that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia had recommended giving the Company six months to take positive steps to implement the project. A written notice from the Ministry in the Summer of 2001 stated that the Council of Ministers of Saudi Arabia had issued a resolution in which it refused the Company’s request to postpone implementation of the project, that the Company must start implementation of the project within six months of the date of the resolution and that, if the project was not then started, the Ministry was authorized to begin procedures to terminate the mining lease. Subsequent correspondence from the Ministry in the fall and winter of 2001 and into 2002 reiterated the threat to terminate the mining lease if the project was not immediately implemented. A letter from the Ministry in March 2002 stated that the six-month period to implement the project had expired without the Company taking positive steps towards that end.
The Company has vigorously contested the legality of the threats of the Ministry to terminate the Company’s mining lease. The Company has written numerous letters to the Ministry, and the Company and its Saudi Arabian legal advisors also have had meetings with officials of the Ministry. In September 2002, the Company sent a letter to Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Abdullah Ben Abdul Aziz, in his capacity as Deputy Chairman of the Saudi Supreme Council of Petroleum and Minerals (the King of Saudi Arabia is the chairman), in which the Company contested the legality of the threats of the Ministry to terminate the mining lease and requested his advice. As stated in its letters to the Ministry and the Crown Prince, the Company believes that the Ministry’s letters to the Company asking for the implementation of the project, without any regard to metal market conditions, is contrary to the Saudi Mining Code and the mining lease agreement. In addition, the Company has had correspondence and a meeting with the United States Ambassador to Saudi Arabia where the Company presented its opinion regarding the legality of the Ministry’s actions. This opinion also was conveyed in a letter to the United States Secretary of Commerce, who replied that the United States Embassy is working to set up meetings with Saudi Arabian government officials in an effort to resolve the matter. The Secretary of Commerce assured the Company that the Department of Commerce has a strong commitment in helping United States companies whenever possible. In a further letter from the Department of Commerce, signed by William H. Lash III, Assistant Secretary for Market Access and Compliance, dated March 6, 2003, it was stated: “After investigating the matter, the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh has been informed by the Ministry of Petroleum that it did not cancel your mining lease. According to the Ministry, it is waiting development of the site by Arabian American Development Company.”
On February 23, 2004, the Company’s President received a letter from the Deputy Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stating that the Council of Ministers had issued a resolution, dated November 17, 2003, which directed the Minister, or whomever he may designate, to discuss with the President of the Company the implementation of a work program, similar to that which is attached to the Company’s mining lease, to start during a period not to exceed two years, and the payment of the past due surface rentals. If agreeable, a document is to be signed to that effect. The resolution stated further that if no agreement is reached, the Ministry of Finance
will give the Council of Ministers its recommendation regarding the $11 million loan granted to the Company. After discussions with the Deputy Minister, the Company President responded, in a letter to the Minister dated March 23, 2004, that the Company will agree to abide by the resolution and will start implementing the work program to build the mine, treatment plant and infrastructure within two years from the date of the signed agreement. The work program was prepared by the Company’s technical consultants and was attached to the letter. The Company also will agree to pay the past due surface rentals, which now total approximately $586,000, in two equal installments, the first on December 31, 2004 (which was paid) and the second on December 31, 2005 (also paid timely) and will continue to pay the surface rentals as specified in the Mining Lease Agreement (currently paid up to date through December 2006). On May 15, 2004, an agreement was signed with the Ministry covering these provisions. In the event the Company does not start to implement the program during the two-year period, the matter will be referred to the concerned parties to seek direction in accordance with the Mining Code and other concerned codes.
With the dramatic continued rise in the price of zinc and copper that the mine will produce, there is now great interest in Saudi Arabia. Therefore, the Company is optimistic in finding joint venture partners and in starting to implement the work program. However, there can be no assurance Company efforts will be successful or what actions the Ministry may take as a result.
The Saudi Government published and implemented the new Mining Code on October 22, 2004 which contains several provisions the Company believes beneficial, not the least of which is a reduction of taxes on profits from 45% to 20%.
Rock Formations and Mineralization. Three mineralized zones, the Saadah, Al Houra and Moyeath, have been outlined by diamond drilling. The Saadah and Al Houra zones occur in a volcanic sequence that consists of two mafic-felsic sequences with interbedded exhalative cherts and metasedimentary rocks. The Moyeath zone was discovered after the completion of underground development in 1980. It is located along an angular unconformity with underlying felsic volcanics and shales. The principle sulphide minerals in all of the zones are pyrite, sphalerite, and chalcopyrite. The precious metals occur chiefly in tetrahedrite and as tellurides and electrum. The following table sets forth a summary of the diluted recoverable, proven and probable mineralized materials at the Al Masane project, along with the estimated average grades of these mineralized materials:
For purposes of calculating proven and probable mineralized materials, a dilution of 5% at zero grade on the Saadah zone and 15% at zero grade on the Al Houra and Moyeath zones was assumed. A mining recovery of 80% has been used for the Saadah zone and 88% for the Al Houra and Moyeath zones. Mining dilution is the amount of wallrack adjacent to the ore body that is included in the ore extraction process.
Proven mineralized materials are those mineral deposits for which quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and grade is computed from results of detailed sampling. For ore deposits to be proven, the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement must be spaced so closely and the geologic character must be so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable mineralized materials are those for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven mineralized materials, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. However, the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven mineralized materials, must be high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
The metallurgical studies conducted on the ore samples taken from the zones indicated that 87.7% of the copper and 82.6% of the zinc could be recovered in copper and zinc concentrates. Overall, gold and silver recovery from the ore was estimated to be 77.3% and 81.3%, respectively, partly into copper concentrate and partly as bullion through cyanide processing of zinc concentrates and mine tailings. Further studies recommended by consultants may improve those recoveries and thus the potential profitability of the project; however, there can be no assurances of this effect.
Other Exploration Areas in Saudi Arabia
During the course of its exploration and development work in the Al Masane area, the Company has carried on exploration work in other areas in Saudi Arabia. In 1971, the Saudi Arabian government awarded the Company exclusive mineral exploration licenses to explore and develop the Wadi Qatan area in southwestern Saudi Arabia. The Company was subsequently awarded an additional license in 1977 for an area north of Wadi Qatan at Jebel Harr. These licenses have expired.
In 1999, the Company applied for an exploration license covering an area of approximately 2,850 square kilometers, which surrounds the Al Masane mining lease area and includes the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas. This area is referred to as the Greater Al Masane area. The Company was authorized in writing by the Saudi Arabian government to carry out exploration work in the area. Previous exploration work was carried on and paid for by the Company. The application for the new exploration licenses is still pending and expected to be acted upon now that the 2004 Saudi Arabian Mining Code has been approved.
Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr. The Wadi Qatan area is located in southwestern Saudi Arabia. Jebel Harr is north of Wadi Qatan. Both areas are approximately 30 kilometers east of the Al Masane area. These areas consist of 40 square kilometers, plus a northern extension of an additional 13 square kilometers. The Company’s geological, geophysical and limited core drilling disclosed the existence of massive sulfides containing an average of 1.2% nickel. Reserves for these areas have not yet been classified and additional exploration work is required. When the Company obtains an exploration license for the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas, the Company intends to continue its exploratory drilling program in order to prove whether enough ore reserves exist to justify a viable mining operation; however there is no assurance that a viable mining operation can be established.
Greater Al Masane. On June 22, 1999, the Company submitted a formal application for a five-year exclusive mineral exploration license for the Greater Al Masane area of approximately 2,850 square kilometers, which surrounds the Al Masane mining lease area and includes the
Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas. The Company previously worked in the Greater Al Masane area after obtaining written authorization from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources and has expended over $3 million on exploration work. Geophysical, geochemical and geological work and diamond core drilling on the Greater Al Masane area reveals mineralization similar to that discovered at Al Masane. A detailed exploration program and expenditures budget accompanied the application. The Company indicated on its application that it would welcome the participation of Ma’aden in this license. Ma’aden, which expressed an interest in the Greater Al Masane area, was informed directly by the Company that its participation as a joint venture partner in the license would be welcomed.
As previously stated, the Company does not possess current formal exploration licenses for any of the above areas. The absence of such licenses creates uncertainty regarding the Company’s rights and obligations, if any, in these areas. The Company believes it has satisfied the Saudi Arabian government’s requirements in these areas and that the government should honor the Company’s claims.
The new Mining Code, adopted by the Saudi government in October, 2004, specifies that the size of an exploration license cannot exceed one hundred (100) square kilometers. However, there is no restriction on how many exploration licenses can be held by one party simultaneously. The Company intends to select the best areas of the previously explored Greater Al Masane Area, and to re-apply for those individually. The applications, per the Mining Code should be acted upon by the Minister within 30 working days. Any refusal may be appealed to the Board of Grievances within 30 days of the date of the ruling notice.
Reference is made to the map on page 16 of this Report for information concerning the location of the foregoing areas.
United States Mineral Interests
The Company’s mineral interest in the United States is its ownership interest in Pioche. Pioche has been inactive for many years.
Nevada Mining Properties. Pioche’s properties include 48 patented and 5 unpatented claims totaling approximately 1,500 acres. All the claims are located in the Pioche Mining District, Lincoln County, Nevada. There are prospects and mines on these claims that previously produced silver, gold, lead, zinc and copper. The ore bodies are both oxidized and sulfide deposits, classified into three groups: fissure veins in quartzite, mineralized granite porphyry and replacement deposits in carbonate rocks (limestone and dolomites). There is a 300-ton-a-day processing mill on property owned by Pioche. The mill is not currently in use and a significant expenditure would be required in order to put the mill into continuous operation, if commercial mining is to be conducted on the property.
Offices
The Company has a year-to-year lease on space in an office building in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, used for office occupancy. The Company also leases a house in Jeddah that is used as a technical office and for staff housing. The Company continues to lease office space in Dallas, Texas on a month-to-month basis.
ITEM 3.