ITEM 2. Properties.
United States Specialty Products Facility
South Hampton owns and operates a specialty petrochemical facility near Silsbee, Texas which is approximately 30 miles north of Beaumont, Texas, and 90 miles east of Houston. The facility presently consists of six operating units which, while interconnected, make distinct products through differing processes: (i) a Penhex Unit; (ii) a Reformer; (iii) a Cyclo-pentane Unit; (iv) an Aromax® Unit; (v) an Aromatics Hydrogenation Unit; and (vi) a White Oil Fractionation Unit. All of these units are currently in operation.
The Penhex Unit processes approximately 3,000 barrels per day of fresh feed, with the Reforming Unit, the Aromax® Unit, and the Cyclo-Pentane Unit further processing streams produced by the Penhex Unit. The Aromatics Hydrogenation Unit has a capacity of approximately 400 barrels per day, and the White Oils Fractionation Unit has a capacity of approximately 3,000 barrels per day. The facility generally consists of equipment commonly found in most petroleum facilities such as fractionation towers and hydrogen treaters except the facility is adapted to produce specialized products that are high purity, very consistent, precise specification materials utilized in the petrochemical industry as solvents, additives, blowing agents and cooling agents. South Hampton
produces eight distinct product streams and markets several combinations of blends as needed in various customers’ applications. South Hampton does not produce motor fuel products or any other commodity type products commonly sold directly to retail consumers or outlets.
The products from the Penhex Unit, Reformer, Aromax® Unit, and Cyclo-pentane Unit are marketed directly to the customer by South Hampton marketing personnel. The Penhex Unit had a utilization rate during 2007 of approximately 91%. This compares to a rate of 87% for 2006. The Reformer and Aromax® units are operated as needed to support the Penhex and Cyclo-pentane Units. Consequently, utilization rates of these units are driven by production from the Penhex Unit. Operating utilization rates are affected by product demand, mechanical integrity, and unforeseen natural occurrences, such as weather events. The nature of the refining process demands periodic shut-downs for de-coking and other mechanical repairs. In 2007, there were mechanical shut-downs resulting in approximately 12 total days of lost production and another 6 days due to weather or other uncontrollable issues. If these items are considered, utilization would have been approximately 96% of capacity. In 2006, the comparable figures were 15 mechanical related, 6 weather related, and 93% utilization. In 2005 the adjusted utilization rate would have been 96%
The other two operating units at the plant site, an Aromatics Hydrogenation Unit and a White Oils Fractionation Unit, are operated as two, independent and completely segregated processes. These units are dedicated to the needs of two different toll processing customers. The customers supply and maintain title to the feedstock, South Hampton processes the feedstock into products based upon customer specifications, and the customers market the products. Products may be sold directly from South Hampton’s storage tanks or transported to the customers’ location for storage and marketing. As of October 2005, after the expansion program, the units have a combined capacity of 3,400 BPD. Together they realized a utilization rate 48% for 2006 and 58% for 2007. The units are operated in accordance with customer needs, and the contracts call for take or pay minimums of production.
To meet market demand, South Hampton increased the capacity of the Penhex Unit by 30% in March 2005. Equipment was purchased in late 2004 and a construction permit was issued by TCEQ in late January 2005. Expansion was accomplished primarily by the addition of two larger fractionation towers and rearrangement of existing equipment. The expanded capacity was put into service and fully operational by the end of the first quarter 2005. Additionally, South Hampton signed an agreement in late January 2005 with one of the toll processing customers calling for an expansion of the White Oils Fractionation Unit by October 2005. Capacity was to be doubled to a minimum of 2,000 BPD and final test runs indicated actual capacity to be approximately 3,000 BPD. The expansion was completed within contract terms and operation of the expanded facility began in October 2005. In the summer of 2006, the Aromatics Hydrogenation Unit was modified to produce two products in addition to that of the original design. Rotating the three separate products through production should keep the unit operating steadily throughout the year.
In March 2007 the Board of Directors approved the expansion of the South Hampton Penhex unit. The total cost of the project will be approximately $12.0 million and the capacity will be increased from 3,000 barrels per day to approximately 6,000 barrels per day. The Company immediately began acquiring equipment and ordering items, such as instrumentation, pumps, and compressors which require a long lead time for delivery. The project consists of an additional fractionation train identical to the current design, and will also entail the expansion of the Aromax, reformer, and Cyclo-pentane units to support the increased volumes. Construction work began in the fall of 2007, with the initial focus being the infrastructure required to support the increased operation, such as
pipe racks, electrical capacity increases, fire water line extensions, water well modifications, etc. The final permit to construct was received from the TCEQ on February 28, 2008, and foundation work for the primary equipment started on that date. Final completion is expected to be towards the end of the second quarter of 2008, which is approximately two months later than originally projected due to delays in the permitting process. For additional information see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
South Hampton, in support of the petrochemical operation, owns approximately 69 storage tanks with total capacity approaching 225,000 barrels, and 106 acres of land at the plant site, 55 acres of which are developed. South Hampton also owns a truck and railroad loading terminal consisting of storage tanks, four rail spurs, and truck and tank car loading facilities on approximately 53 acres, of which 13 acres are developed.
As a result of various expansion programs and the toll processing contracts, essentially all of the standing equipment at South Hampton is operational. South Hampton has various surplus equipment stored on-site which may be used in the future to assemble additional processing units as needs arise.
Gulf State owns and operates three (3) 8-inch diameter pipelines aggregating approximately 50 miles in length connecting South Hampton’s facility to: (1) a natural gas line, (2) South Hampton’s truck and rail loading terminal and (3) a major petroleum products pipeline system owned by an unaffiliated third party. All pipelines are operated within Texas Railroad Commission and DOT regulations for maintenance and integrity.
Mexico Specialty Products Facility, Coatzacoalcos, Mexico
As discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in February 2004, a creditor initiated mortgage foreclosure proceedings against Coin which resulted in a court ordered award of Coin’s plant facilities to the creditor. The Company knew that Coin had a history of legal and credit problems when it was purchased in early 2000 and intended to negotiate and resolve the issues outstanding after acquisition, but found the legal system in Mexico to be cumbersome and inflexible. The Company pursued all available remedies at law to prevent or delay such legal action, but in May of 2005 negotiated a settlement whereby title to the facility was signed over to the new owner in return for a minor amount of cash and relief from certain liabilities. As a result, management recorded the loss on the foreclosure of the facility with a charge to consolidated operations of $2,900,964 during the fourth quarter of 2004. The Company then sold the stock in the corporation to another Mexican entity and recorded a gain of $5,825,668 in June of 2005. There are no further liabilities or relationships with the Coin facility, the Mexican government, or the new owners.
Saudi Arabia Mining Properties
Al Masane Project
Location, Access and Transportation. The Al Masane project consists of a mining lease area of approximately 44 square kilometers in southwestern Saudi Arabia approximately 640 km southeast of Jeddah. Reference is made to the map on page 20 of this Report for information concerning the location of the Al Masane project. Presently, the site can be accessed by heavy trucks via the 20 kilometer improved asphalt and gravel road from Sifah. The elevation of the Al Masane project is
approximately 1,620 meters above sea level. Najran is the major town located in the area and is serviced by air from Jeddah and Riyadh. Access from the town of Najran to the project site is 130 km by a paved road to which continues to Sifah. There are scheduled flights from Jeddah to Abha and Najran. From the west, there is paved road between Abha and Gusap, and then a dirt road to the site.
Conditions to Retain Title. The Saudi government granted the Company a mining lease for the Al Masane area on May 22, 1993. As holder of the Al Masane mining lease, the Company is solely responsible to the Saudi Arabian government for rental payments and other obligations required by the mining lease and repayment of an $11 million loan. The Company’s interpretation of the mining lease is that repayment of this loan will be made in accordance with a repayment schedule to be agreed upon with the Saudi Arabian government from the Company’s share of the project’s cash flows. The initial term of the lease is for a period of thirty (30) years beginning May 22, 1993, with the Company having the option to renew or extend the term of the lease for additional periods not to exceed twenty (20) years. Under the lease, the Company is obligated to pay advance surface rental in the amount of 10,000 Saudi riyals (approximately $2,667 at the current exchange rate) per square kilometer per year (approximately $117,350 annually) during the period of the lease. The Company, in accordance with the agreement with the Ministry, paid $266,000 of the back payments on January 3, 2005, and the remaining $320,000 on December 27, 2005. Additionally, the Company paid $234,700 in March 2006, $117,300 in February 2007, and $117,300 in February 2008 which pays the lease amounts in full through the end of 2008. In addition, the Company must pay income tax in accordance with the laws of Saudi Arabia then in force and pay all infrastructure costs. The Saudi Arabian Mining Code provides that income tax is to be paid yearly at the rate of 20% commencing immediately upon realization of profits. The lease gives the Saudi Arabian government priority to purchase any gold production from the project as well as the right to purchase up to 10% of the annual production of other minerals on the same terms and conditions then available to other similar buyers and at current prices then prevailing in the free market. Furthermore, the lease contains provisions requiring that preferences be given to Saudi Arabian suppliers and contractors, that the Company employ Saudi Arabian citizens and provide training to Saudi Arabian personnel.
History of Previous Operations. The Al Masane project contains extensive ancient mineral workings and smelters which were discovered by Hatem El Khalidi, President and CEO of the Company while flying over the area and later mapped by him on camel back during 1967. From ancient inscriptions in the area, it is believed that mining activities occurred sporadically from 1000 BC to 700 AD. The ancients are believed to have extracted mainly gold, silver and copper. Various regional investigations of the Al Masane area were carried out by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) mission. The first systematic mapping was by Brown and Jackson who published the Geologic Map of the Asir Quadrangle in 1959, and Greenwood carried out reconnaissance mapping in 1974 of the Wadi Malahah quadrangle, which includes Al Masane. Conway undertook geologic mapping of the area in 1976. Beginning in 1972, the Company undertook various geological, geophysical, and geochemical surveys which lead to the discovery of the ore lenses. In 1975, Robertson Research International (“RRI”) reviewed the exploration program completed by the Company, prepared a preliminary economic evaluation on the deposit and recommended ongoing development. In 1977, the Company retained Watts, Griffis and McOuat Limited of Toronto, Canada (WGM) to study the deposits and an underground development program was recommended to define the tonnage and grade of the deposit. By September 1980 a permanent exploration camp including water supply and power plant was
established. In April 1981 WGM completed a program of 3,700 meters of underground access and development using trackless mining equipment and 25,000 meters of underground diamond drilling and 20,000 meters of surface drilling (“Phase I”). Bulk underground metallurgical samples were taken, and pilot plant test work was conducted at the Colorado School of Mines Research to confirm the laboratory test work completed previously by Lakefield Research in Canada on the drill core. This work was financed primarily with the $11 million interest-free loan from the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Finance. Continued surface prospecting in the immediate area by the Company led to the discovery of the Moyeath zone in late 1980. Although the surface expression of the gossans1 was small, preliminary diamond drilling indicated a significant massive sulphide deposit at depth. Between 1982 and 1987, infill diamond drilling was conducted on the Al Houra and Moyeath deposits which expanded the ore reserves. In addition, a number of studies relating to water supply for the project were completed. Environmental studies for the project were completed by independent consultants in 1995 as part of the bankable feasibility studies.
Description of Current Property Condition. In 1982 WGM concluded that sufficient ore reserves were established to justify completion of a fully bankable feasibility study to determine the economic potential of establishing a commercial mining and ore treatment operation at Al Masane. WGM determined that the Al Masane deposits would support commercial production of copper, zinc, gold and silver and recommended implementation of Phase II of the Al Masane development program, which included construction of underground mining, ore treatment and support facilities. WGM’s September 1984 reevaluation of the project resulted in no substantial changes of its initial conclusions and recommendations. In 1993, the Company commissioned WGM to prepare a new fully bankable feasibility study to be used to obtain financing for commercial development of the project. The study, which was completed in 1994, contained specific recommendations to insure that project construction was accomplished expeditiously and economically. The engineering design and costing portions of the study were performed by Davy International of Toronto, Canada (“Davy”). WGM and Davy updated this study in 1996. WGM recommended that the Al Masane reserves be mined by underground methods using trackless mining equipment. Once the raw ore is mined, it would be subjected to a grinding and treating process resulting in three products to be delivered to smelters for further refining. These products are zinc concentrate, copper concentrate and Dore2 bullion. The copper and zinc concentrates also contain valuable amounts of gold and silver. These concentrates and the Dore bullion to be produced from the proposed cyanidization plant are estimated to be 22,000 ounces of gold and 800,000 ounces of silver and will be sold to copper and zinc custom smelters and refineries worldwide. After the smelter refining process, the metals could be sold by the Company or the smelter for the Company’s account in the open market. As recommended by WGM, the source of power for the Al Masane site will be from diesel powered generators until such time as the site is connected to the national power grid, which is presently 20 km from the site.
In the 1994 feasibility study, WGM stated that there is potential to find more reserves within the lease area, as the ore zones are all open at depth. Further diamond drilling is required to quantify the additional mineralization associated with these zones. A significant feature of the Al Masane ore zones is that they tend to have a much greater vertical plunge than strike length; relatively
“Gossan” means the rust colored oxidized, capping or staining of a mineral deposit, generally formed by the oxidation or alteration of iron sulphide.
“Dore” means unrefined gold and silver bullion bars consisting of approximately 90% precious metals which will be further refined to almost pure metal.
small surface exposures such as the Moyeath zone may be developed into sizeable ore tonnages by thorough and systematic exploration. Similarly, systematic prospecting of the small gossans in the area could yield significant tonnages of new ore. The 1996 update showed the estimated capital cost to bring the project into operation to be $89 million. At a production rate of 700,000 tons per year, the operating cost of the project (excluding concentrate freight, ship loading, smelter charges, depreciation, interest and taxes) was estimated to be $38.49 per ton of ore milled. The feasibility study was updated in August of 2005, by SNC-Lavalin, Engineers and Constructors, Inc. of Toronto, Canada using the field work and conclusions of the previous studies. No design work or field work was performed, but the update was designed to apply current costs and metal prices to the existing work. The 2005 update indicates the current capital cost to be approximately $116 million with an additional $7 million needed for the addition of a Gold Recovery Circuit (GRC). The updated operating costs are estimated to be $53.37 per ton of ore milled, without the GRC, or $60.01 with the GRC.
Metal prices were at record lows worldwide during 2003, and therefore, mining projects were not economically feasible. As prices have recovered for the 2005-2007 time period, the project becomes economically viable. If spot prices as of December 28, 2007, are used in the analysis, or even the ten year average of prices is used, the project becomes very economically attractive. Mining economics, as with other capital intensive extractive industries such as offshore petroleum exploration, will vary over time as market prices rise and fall with worldwide economic performance.
The following chart illustrates the change from the previous three year average to current levels:
Other than a base camp with accompanying facilities and equipment, as well as 3,700 meters of underground access and water wells completed by WGM in April 1981, there has been no other significant infrastructure development by the Company at the Al Masane project. As noted above, the estimated total capital cost to bring the Al Masane project into production is $116 million. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of these matters.
Pursuant to the mining lease agreement, when the Al Masane project is profitable the Company was obligated to form a Saudi public stock company with the Saudi Arabian Mining Company, a corporation wholly owned by the Saudi Arabian government (“Ma’aden”), as successor to and assignee of the mining interests formerly held by the Petroleum Mineral Organization (“Petromin”). Ma’aden is the Saudi Arabian government’s official mining company. In 1994, the Company received instructions from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stating that it is possible for the Company to form a Saudi company without Petromin (now Ma’aden), but the sale of stock to the Saudi public could not occur until the mine’s commercial operations were profitable for at least two years. The instructions added that Petromin (now Ma’aden) still had the right to purchase shares in the Saudi joint stock company any time it desires. Title to the mining lease and the other obligations specified in the mining lease would be transferred to the Saudi joint stock company. According to the terms of the lease agreement the
Company would remain responsible for repaying the $11 million loan to the Saudi Arabian government. However, the Company believes that ultimate resolution of the note may be open to negotiation and intends to approach the subject with the Ministry of the Treasury at the appropriate time.
The Company and eight Saudi investors formed a Saudi joint stock company under the name Al Masane Al Kobra Mining Company (ALAK) and received a commercial license from the Ministry of Commerce in January 2008. The Company's mining lease will be transferred to ALAK and ALAK will build the mining and treatment facilities, and operate the mine. The basic terms of agreement forming ALAK are as follows: (1) the capitalization will be the amount necessary to develop the project, approximately $120 million, (2) the Company will own 50% of ALAK with the remainder being held by the Saudi investors, (3) the Company will contribute the mining assets and mining lease for a credit of $60 million and the Saudi investors have contributed $60 million cash, and (4) the remaining capital for the project will be raised by ALAK by other means which may include application for a loan from the Saudi Industrial Development Fund, loans from private banks, and/or the inclusion of other investors. ALAK will have all powers of administration over the Al Masane mining project. Subsequent to the above agreement, the cash contribution was deposited in the accounts for ALAK in September and October of 2007. The Company has four directors representing its interests on an eight person board of directors with the Chairman of ALAK chosen from the directors representing the Saudi investors. The original documents are in Arabic, and English translations have been provided to the parties.
The Saudi Government published and implemented the new Mining Code on October 22, 2004 which contains several provisions the Company believes beneficial, not the least of which is a reduction of taxes on profits from 45% to 20%.
Rock Formations and Mineralization. Three mineralized zones, the Saadah, Al Houra and Moyeath, have been outlined by diamond drilling. The Saadah and Al Houra zones occur in a volcanic sequence that consists of two mafic-felsic sequences with interbedded exhalative cherts and metasedimentary rocks. The Moyeath zone was discovered after the completion of underground development in 1980. It is located along an angular unconformity with underlying felsic volcanics and shales. The principle sulphide minerals in all of the zones are pyrite, sphalerite, and chalcopyrite. The precious metals occur chiefly in tetrahedrite and as tellurides and electrum. The following table sets forth a summary of the diluted recoverable, proven and probable mineralized materials at the Al Masane project, along with the estimated average grades of these mineralized materials:
For purposes of calculating proven and probable mineralized materials, a dilution of 5% at zero grade on the Saadah zone and 15% at zero grade on the Al Houra and Moyeath zones was
assumed. A mining recovery of 80% was used for the Saadah zone and 88% for the Al Houra and Moyeath zones. Mining dilution is the amount of wallrack adjacent to the ore body that is included in the ore extraction process.
Proven mineralized materials are those mineral deposits for which quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and grade is computed from results of detailed sampling. For ore deposits to be proven the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement must be spaced so closely and the geologic character must be so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable mineralized materials are those for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven mineralized materials, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. However, the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven mineralized materials, must be high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
The metallurgical studies conducted on the ore samples taken from the zones indicated that 87.7% of the copper and 82.6% of the zinc could be recovered in copper and zinc concentrates. Overall, gold and silver recovery from the ore was estimated to be 77.3% and 81.3%, respectively, partly into copper concentrate and partly as bullion through cyanide processing of zinc concentrates and mine tailings. Further studies recommended by consultants may improve those recoveries and thus the potential profitability of the project; however, there can be no assurances of this effect.
Other Exploration Areas in Saudi Arabia
During the course of its exploration and development work in the Al Masane area, the Company has carried on exploration work in other areas in Saudi Arabia.
Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr. The Wadi Qatan area is located in southwestern Saudi Arabia. Jebel Harr is north of Wadi Qatan. Both areas are approximately 30 kilometers east of the Al Masane area. These areas consist of 40 square kilometers, plus a northern extension of an additional 13 square kilometers. The Company’s geological, geophysical and limited core drilling disclosed the existence of massive sulfides containing an average of 1.2% nickel. Reserves for these areas have not yet been classified and additional exploration work is required. When the Company obtains an exploration license for the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas, the Company intends to continue its exploratory drilling program in order to prove whether sufficient ore reserves exist to justify a viable mining operation; however there is no assurance that a viable mining operation can be established.
Greater Al Masane. On June 22, 1999, the Company submitted a formal application for a five-year exclusive mineral exploration license for the Greater Al Masane area of approximately 2,850 square kilometers, which surrounds the Al Masane mining lease area and includes the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas. The Company previously worked in the Greater Al Masane area after obtaining written authorization from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, and has expended over $2 million on exploration work. Geophysical, geochemical and geological work and diamond core drilling on the Greater Al Masane area reveals mineralization similar to that discovered at Al Masane. A detailed exploration program and expenditures budget accompanied the application. The Company indicated on its application that it would welcome the participation of Ma’aden in this license. Ma’aden, which expressed an interest in the Greater Al Masane area, was informed directly by the Company that its participation as a joint venture partner in the license would be welcomed.
As previously stated, the Company does not possess current formal exploration licenses for any of the above areas. The absence of such licenses creates uncertainty regarding the Company’s rights and obligations, if any, in these areas. The Company believes it has satisfied the Saudi Arabian government’s requirements in these areas and that the government should honor the Company’s claims.
The new Mining Code, adopted by the Saudi government in October, 2004, specifies that the size of an exploration license cannot exceed one hundred (100) square kilometers. However, there is no restriction on how many exploration licenses can be held by one party simultaneously. The Company is in the process of identifying the best areas of the previously explored Greater Al Masane Area and intends to re-apply for those individually. The applications will be submitted per the Mining Code by ALAK.
Reference is made to the map on page 20 of this Report for information concerning the location of the foregoing areas.
United States Mineral Interests
The Company’s only mineral interest in the United States is its ownership interest in Pioche. Pioche has been inactive for many years.
Nevada Mining Properties. Pioche’s properties include 48 patented and 5 unpatented claims totaling approximately 1,500 acres. All the claims are located in the Pioche Mining District, Lincoln County, Nevada. There are prospects and mines on these claims that previously produced silver, gold, lead, zinc and copper. The ore bodies are both oxidized and sulfide deposits, classified into three groups: fissure veins in quartzite, mineralized granite porphyry and replacement deposits in carbonate rocks (limestone and dolomites). There is a 300-ton-a-day processing mill on property owned by Pioche. The mill is not currently in use and a significant expenditure would be required in order to put the mill into continuous operation, if commercial mining is to be conducted on the property. Pioche’s properties are located approximately 100 miles from Las Vegas, Nevada, and with the significant growth presently occurring in Las Vegas, the Company believes the real estate value of Pioche is greater than the metal value. In other words, it is felt that the asset value at which Pioche is carried on the Company’s books is supported by the real estate value of the Pioche properties. The Board of Directors of Pioche has determined that the Company should sell parcels of the real estate if market conditions are acceptable. Mr. Carter, appointed as a Director in 2007, was appointed President of Pioche, and Charles Goehringer was appointed Director and Vice President, in January 2008. Title research is being conducted to evaluate the feasibility of property sales.
Offices
The Company has a year-to-year lease on space in an office building in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, used for office occupancy. The Company also leases a house in Jeddah that is used as a technical office and for staff housing. The Company continues to lease office space in Dallas, Texas on a month-to-month basis.
ITEM 3.