ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
SPECIALTY PRODUCTS REFINERY
The Company's primary source of revenues is the specialty products refinery owned and operated by South Hampton near Silsbee, Texas. The refinery presently consists of seven operating units that, while interconnected, make distinct products through differing processes: (i) a pentane-hexane unit; (ii) a catalytic reformer; (iii) an aromatics fractionation unit; (iv) a cyclopentane unit; (v) an Aromax(R) unit; (vi) an aromatics hydrogenation unit; and (vii) a specialty fractionation unit. All of these units are currently in operation. A solvent fractionation unit is under construction and scheduled to start production on April 1, 1999.
The pentane-hexane unit's design capacity is approximately 2,200 barrels per day ("BPD") of feedstock. While the unit averaged 1,975 barrels per stream day during 1998, during four different months it set production records by processing at 108% of design capacity. The unit consists of a series of fractionation towers and hydrotreaters capable of producing high purity solvents that are sold primarily to expandable polystyrene and high density polyethylene producers. South Hampton purchases most of its feedstock for this unit on the spot market.
The catalytic reforming unit is a standard industry design using a platinum-rhenium catalyst that produces an aromatics concentrate that is used as feedstock for an aromatics extraction unit, as well as hydrogen that is utilized in other processes. The design capacity of the reformer is 4,000 BPD. The unit is operated as a source of hydrogen for the pentane-hexane unit and operates in tandem with the Aromax(R) unit as feedstock balances dictate. The unit's average production was 425 barrels per stream day in 1998.
The aromatics fractionation unit consists of two towers with a design capacity of 750 BPD. The unit processes an aromatic feedstock stream into three specialized aromatic solvents used in various applications such as pesticides, paints and coatings and adhesives. This unit is leased to a customer for its own use pursuant to a toll processing contract that provides for the payment of a minimum daily charge.
The cyclopentane unit consists of three specialized fractionation towers designed to produce a consistently high quality product that is used in the expandable polystyrene industry. The design capacity of the cyclopentane unit is 400 BPD. The unit operates from feedstock supplied by the pentane-hexane unit and averaged 215 barrels of production per stream day during 1998.
The Aromax(R) unit is the world's first commercial unit using Chevron Research Company's proprietary process to produce a high benzene content product that is sold as feedstock to refiners operating benzene extraction units. This process converts petroleum naphtha into liquid hydrocarbons having a high aromatic hydrocarbon content. The Aromax(R) unit's design capacity is 400 BPD and uses as feedstock a by-product from the South Hampton's pentane-hexane unit as well as from outside hydrotreaters. The unit's average production throughput during 1998 was 145 barrels per stream day. Chevron Research Company has agreed to continue development of the Aromax(R) process and the unit continues to successfully operate as designed.
The aromatics hydrogenation unit consists of a hydrotreating reactor and a single fractionation tower that strips excess gas from the product. The design capacity of this unit is 500 BPD. It converts a high purity aromatic feedstock into a more environmentally acceptable high purity solvent. This unit is leased to a customer for its own use pursuant to a toll processing contract that provides for the payment of a minimum daily charge.
The specialty fractionation unit consists of a single fractionation tower and has a design capacity of 500 BPD. This unit is leased to a customer for its own use pursuant to a toll processing contract that provides for the payment of a minimum daily charge.
The specialty solvents unit that is under construction consists of three fractionation towers, one of which operates under vacuum. When completed, this unit will process a specialized high purity feedstock and
produce four high purity solvents. This unit is to be leased to a customer for its own use pursuant to a toll processing contract that provides for the payment of a minimum daily charge.
South Hampton owns approximately 87 storage tanks with a total capacity of approximately 285,000 barrels. Two spherical storage tanks with a total capacity of 10,000 barrels each are under construction and expected to be completed by May 1, 1999. These tanks will be utilized in the management of pentane inventory. The refinery is situated on 100 acres of land, approximately 70 acres of which are developed. South Hampton also owns a truck and railroad loading terminal that consists of eight storage tanks, a rail spur and truck and tank car loading facilities.
As a result of the 1990 production capacity expansion and the toll processing contracts, essentially all of South Hampton's standing equipment is operational. It also owns certain surplus equipment, which is stored on site that could be used to assemble additional processing units, such as a hydrocracking unit with a 2,000 BPD capacity. South Hampton periodically reviews, as market and competitive conditions warrant, the feasibility of expanding the capacity of its existing pentane-hexane unit or constructing additional facilities.
Gulf State owns and operates three 8 inch pipelines aggregating approximately 50 miles in length that connect South Hampton's refinery to a natural gas line, to South Hampton's truck and rail loading terminal and to a marine terminal owned by an unaffiliated third party. South Hampton leases storage facilities at the marine terminal.
SAUDI ARABIA MINING PROPERTIES
Al Masane Project
The Al Masane project, consisting of an area of approximately 44 square kilometers, contains extensive ancient mineral workings and smelters. From ancient inscriptions in the area, it is believed that mining activities went on sporadically from 1000 BC to 700 AD. The ancients are believed to have extracted mainly gold, silver and copper.
Initial Exploration Work and Prior Feasibility Studies. The Saudi Arabian government granted the Company exploration licenses for the Al Masane and Wadi Qatan areas in 1971. Subsequently, the Company conducted substantial geological and geophysical activities in these areas. Core drilling and studies by independent consulting firms concluded that Al Masane's copper, zinc, gold and silver prospects could be put in production sooner than the nickel prospect at Wadi Qatan. Metallurgical tests also showed difficulty in separating the nickel at Wadi Qatan. During 1977, a pre-feasibility mining study was conducted at Al Masane by the mining consulting firm of Watts, Griffis and McOuat Limited of Toronto, Canada ("WGM"). WGM recommended an extensive development program for the Al Masane prospect.
Phase I of WGM's recommended Al Masane development program was completed in April 1981. It involved construction of underground tunnels parallel to the ore bodies from which extensive underground core drilling was done in order to prove the quantity and quality of the ore reserves. This work was financed primarily with an $11 million interest-free loan from the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Finance. As a result of this work, WGM concluded that sufficient ore reserves had been established to justify completion of a full bank feasibility study to determine the economic potential of establishing a commercial mining and ore treatment operation at Al Masane. WGM and SNC/GECO of Montreal, Canada conducted this study in 1982. They concluded that the Al Masane deposits would support commercial production of copper, zinc, gold and silver and recommended implementation of Phase II of the Al Masane development program, which would involve the construction of mining, ore treatment and support facilities. WGM's September 1984 reevaluation of the project resulted in no substantial changes of their initial conclusions and recommendations.
The Company continued its exploration work at Al Masane after 1984. Consequently, WGM upwardly revised its reserve estimates in 1989 and again concluded that a proposed mining operation was economically viable as well as having high potential for the discovery of additional ore zones.
Current Feasibility Studies. The Saudi government granted the Company a mining lease for the Al Masane area on May 22, 1993. The Company subsequently commissioned WGM to prepare a new fully
bankable feasibility study to be used to obtain financing for commercial development of the project. The study, which was completed in 1994, contained specific recommendations to insure that project construction was accomplished expeditiously and economically. The engineering design and costing portions of the study were performed by Davy International of Toronto, Canada ("Davy"). WGM and Davy updated this study in 1996. A summary of the studies' findings are as follows:
The Al Masane ore is located in three mineralized zones known as Saadah, Al Houra and Moyeath. The following table sets forth a summary of the diluted minable, proven and probable ore reserves at the Al Masane project, along with the estimated average grades of these reserves:
For purposes of calculating, proven and probable reserves, a dilution of 5% at zero grade on the Saadah zone and 15% at zero grade on the Al Houra and Moyeath zones was assumed. A mining recovery of 80% has been used for the Saadah zone and 88% for the Al Houra and Moyeath zones. Mining dilution is the amount of wallrack adjacent to the ore body that is included in the ore extraction process.
Proven reserves are those mineral deposits for which quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drillholes, and grade is computed from results of detailed sampling. For ore deposits to be proven, the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement must be spaced so closely and the geologic character must be so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable reserves are those for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. However, the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, must be high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
The metallurgical studies conducted on the ore samples taken from the zones indicated that 87.7% of the copper and 82.6% of the zinc could be recovered in copper and zinc concentrates. Overall, gold and silver recovery from the ore was estimated to be 77.3% and 81.3%, respectively, partly into copper concentrate and partly as bullion through cyanide processing of zinc concentrates and mine tailings.
A test program to evaluate the economies of the cyanidation of the zinc concentrate and tailings in order to improve gold and silver recoveries found gold and silver recoveries to range from 50% to 77%. To recover gold and silver from the zinc concentrate and tailings, WGM recommended that a cyanidation plant be included in the process flowsheet. Dore bullion would be produced. WGM concluded that the inclusion of a cyanidation plant would make a positive contribution to the economies of the project under the base conditions.
The mining and milling operation recommended by WGM for Al Masane would involve the production of 2,000 tonnes of ore per day (700,000 tonnes per year), with a mine life of over ten years. Annual production is estimated to be 34,900 tonnes of copper concentrate (25% copper per tonne) containing precious metal and 58,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate (54% zinc per tonne). Total output per year of gold and silver is estimated to be 22,000 ounces of gold and 800,000 ounces of silver from the copper concentrate and bullion produced. The construction of mining, milling and infrastructure facilities is estimated to take 21 months to complete. Construction necessary to bring the Al Masane project into production includes the construction of a 2,000 tonne per day concentrator, infrastructure with a 300 man housing facility and the installation of a cyanidation plant to increase the recovery of precious metals from the deposit. Project power requirements will be met by diesel generated power.
WGM recommended that the Al Masane reserves be mined by underground methods using trackless mining equipment. Once the raw ore is mined, it would be subjected to a grinding and treating process
resulting in three products to be delivered to smelters for further refining. These products are zinc concentrate, copper concentrate and dore bullion. The copper and zinc concentrates also contain valuable amounts of gold and silver. These concentrates and the dore bullion to be produced from the cynidization plant are estimated to be 22,000 ounces of gold and 800,000 ounces of silver and will be sold to copper and zinc custom smelters and refineries worldwide. After the smelter refining process, the metals could be sold by the Company or the smelter for the Company's account in the open market.
In the feasibility study, WGM states that there is potential to find more reserves within the lease area, as the ore zones are all open at depth. Further diamond drilling, which will be undertaken by the Company, is required to quantify the additional mineralization associated with these zones. A significant feature of the Al Masane ore zones is that they tend to have a much greater vertical plunge than strike length; relatively small surface exposures such as the Moyeath zone are being developed into sizeable ore tonnages by thorough and systematic exploration. Similarly, systematic prospecting of the small gossans in the area could yield significant tonnages of new ore.
The 1996 update shows the estimated capital cost to bring the project into operation to be $88.6 million. At a production rate of 700,000 tonnes per year, the operating cost of the project (excluding concentrate freight, ship loading, smelter charges, depreciation, interest and taxes) was estimated to be $38.49 per tonne of ore milled.
WGM prepared an economic analysis of the project utilizing cash flow projections. A base case was prepared that included those project elements which are most likely to be achieved. WGM believed that a majority of the base case assumptions used in the 1994 feasibility study remained valid, including the ore reserves, mill feed grade, production rate, metal recoveries and concentrate grade and smelter returns. Metal prices, capital costs, operating costs and the corporate structure were adjusted to reflect more current information. Capital and operating costs were adjusted in conformity with the updated estimates prepared by Davy.
The base case assumes the corporate structure of the entity to be formed to operate the project, planned to be Arabian Mining, will be owned 50% by the Company and 50% by Saudi Arabian investors and that the owners of this entity would contribute an aggregate of $21.2 million to the cost of the project. The base case further assumes financing for the project from commercial loans in the aggregate amount of $21.2 million bearing interest at the rate of 8% per year and a loan in the amount of $43.8 million from the Saudi Industrial Development Fund ("SIDF") repayable in equal annual installments over the initial life of the mine. Cash generated by the operation of the project would contribute the remainder of the project financing. The base case assumes that the $11 million loan outstanding to the Saudi Arabian government will be paid by the Company in accordance with a repayment schedule to be agreed upon with the Saudi Arabian government from the Company's share of the project's cash flows. Based on these assumptions, and assuming the average prices of metal over the life of the mine to be $1.05 per pound for copper, $.60 per pound for zinc, $400 per ounce of gold and $6.00 per ounce of silver, WGM's economic analysis of the base case shows the project will realize an internal rate of return of 13.1%, the Company's and the Saudi Arabian investors' internal rates of return would be 27.3% and 12.1%, respectively, and projected net cash flow (after debt repayment) from the project of $95.1 million. The 1994 feasibility study base case showed the project would realize a 14.05% internal rate of return. Cash flow under the base case is exclusive of income tax as the base case assumes that any such tax would be paid by individual investors and not by the project. Assuming a 10% discount rate, the net present value of the project as shown in the update is $12.16 million compared to the $15.5 million net present value of the project shown in the 1994 feasibility study. Based on the update, WGM believes that the economic analysis shows that the project remains viable.
Mining Lease. As the holder of the Al Masane mining lease, the Company is solely responsible to the Saudi Arabian government for the rental payments and other obligations provided for by the mining lease and repayment of the previously discussed $11 million loan. The Company's interpretation of the mining lease is that repayment of this loan will be made in accordance with a repayment schedule to be agreed upon with the Saudi Arabian government from the Company's share of the project's cash flows. The initial term of the lease is for a period of thirty (30) years from May 22, 1993, with the Company having the option to renew or extend
the term of the lease for additional periods not to exceed twenty (20) years. Under the lease, the Company is obligated to pay advance surface rental in the amount of 10,000 Saudi Riyals (approximately $2,667 at the current exchange rate) per square kilometer per year (approximately $117,300 annually) during the period of the lease. It is contemplated that responsibility for the payment of all future rental payments would be assumed by Arabian Mining when title to the Al Masane mining lease is transferred to it. In addition, the Company must pay income tax in accordance with the income tax laws of Saudi Arabia then in force and pay all infrastructure costs. The Saudi Arabian Mining Code provides that income tax will not be due during the first stage of mining operations, which is the period of five years starting from the earlier of (i) the date of the first sale of products or (ii) the beginning of the fourth year since the issue of the mining lease. The lease gives the Saudi Arabian government priority to purchase any gold production from the project as well as the right to purchase up to 10% of the annual production of other minerals on the same terms and conditions then available to other similar buyers and at current prices then prevailing in the free market. Furthermore, the lease contains provisions requiring that preferences be given to Saudi Arabian suppliers and contractors, that the Company employ Saudi Arabian citizens and provide training to Saudi Arabian personnel.
Reference is made to the map on page 10 of this Report for information concerning the location of the Al Masane project.
Project Financing and Proposed Joint Venture. As detailed above, the estimated total capital cost to bring the Al Masane project into production is $88.6 million. The Company does not presently have sufficient funds to bring this project into production. Also, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of these matters.
In order to commercially develop the Al Masane project, the Company plans to enter into the Arabian Mining joint venture with Al Mashreq. The following summarizes certain proposed terms and conditions of the planned joint venture. The Company anticipates that, once established, Arabian Mining would attempt to finance the project and would be responsible for the construction and operation of the mining facilities. In the event the Arabian Mining joint venture is established, the Company would be obligated to transfer title to the mining lease as well as its beneficial interest in the Al Masane project to the planned joint venture. It is also possible that the Company would be required to transfer its other Saudi mining interests, if any, to the planned joint venture. In the event Arabian Mining is unable to obtain acceptable financing for the project by a date to be agreed upon, then either joint venture partner may terminate the joint venture agreement. In this event, full title to the mining lease and other interests, if any, that the Company transferred to Arabian Mining would revert back to the Company. If the joint venture is terminated, the Company may be liable to Al Mashreq for any prior surface rentals and other such costs which either Al Mashreq or the planned joint venture paid. At December 31, 1998 the amount of these costs paid by Al Mashreq was $469,333.
Pursuant to the mining lease agreement, when the Al Masane project is profitable the Company is obligated to form a Saudi public stock company with the Petroleum Mineral Organization ("Petromin"). Petromin is the Saudi Arabian government's official mining and petroleum company. In 1994, the Company received instructions from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stating that it is possible for the Company to form a Saudi company without Petromin, but the sale of stock to the Saudi public could not occur until the mine's commercial operations were profitable for at least two years. The instructions added that Petromin still had the right to purchase shares in the Saudi public stock company any time it desires. The joint venture partners contemplate Arabian Mining would be transformed into a Saudi public stock company sometime after it has been profitable for two years. At that time, the Company and Al Mashreq would own no less than 50% of the shares of the contemplated Saudi public stock company, Petromin would have an option to acquire up to 25% of the shares and the remaining shares would be offered for sale in Saudi Arabia pursuant to a public stock subscription offering. Title to the mining lease and the other obligations specified in the mining lease would be transferred to the Saudi public stock company. However, the Company would remain responsible for the repaying the $11 million loan to the Saudi Arabian government.
On behalf of the planned joint venture, the Company and Al Mashreq applied to the Saudi Industrial Development Fund (the "SIDF") for a loan of approximately $38.1 million in 1995. The SIDF makes interest-free loans to industrial projects in Saudi Arabia and charges a 2.5% service fee. Conditional loan
approval was granted in December 1997. The conditions that must be met prior to receiving unconditional loan approval from the SIDF include, but are not limited to, (i) transfer of the Al Masane mining lease (free and clear of all liens) to the proposed joint venture, (ii) receipt by the SIDF of acceptable loan guarantees from each of the two proposed joint venture partners and (iii) receipt by the SIDF of an acceptable agreement between the Company and the Saudi Ministry of Finance regarding the Company's repayment of the previously discussed $11.0 million loan.
Given that open market prices for the minerals to be produced by the Al Masane project are presently at or near their recent historical lows, there can be no assurances that the Company or the planned joint venture will be able to obtain financing from the SIDF or any other sources. In addition, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to negotiate an acceptable joint venture and/or other agreement(s) with Al Mashreq. In either event, the Company would attempt to maintain the Al Masane mining lease and continue with a modest exploration and reserve development program in order to expand Al Masane's mineral reserve base and improve the existing metallurgical recovery rate, which is presently estimated at 82% zinc and 87% copper. Once open market prices for the minerals to be produced by the mine sufficiently improve, the Company would then again attempt to obtain acceptable financing to commercially develop the Al Masane mining project.
Other Exploration Areas in Saudi Arabia
During the course of its exploration and development work in the Al Masane area, the Company has carried on exploration work in other areas in Saudi Arabia and plans to apply for an additional exploration license(s) for these areas. With respect to these other areas, the Company has an agreement with Petromin that governs the rights of the parties if the exploration licenses granted to the Company or Arabian Mining are converted into a mining lease. Under this agreement, Petromin is granted an option to acquire, at any time, a 25% interest in any mineral mining project in Saudi Arabia that is the subject of the exploration licenses.
In 1971, the Saudi Arabian government awarded the Company exclusive mineral exploration licenses to explore and develop the Wadi Qatan area in southwestern Saudi Arabia. The Company was subsequently awarded an additional license in 1977 for an area north of Wadi Qatan at Jebel Harr. While these licenses have expired, the Company has received verbal assurance from Saudi Arabian government officials that the licenses will be extended as long as exploratory work is being carried out on the areas that they covered. However, no formal extensions from the government have been obtained.
The Company applied for an exploration license covering an area surrounding the Al Masane mining lease area, which is referred to as the Greater Al Masane area. Although a license has not been formally granted for the Greater Al Masane area, the Company has been authorized in writing by the Saudi Arabian government to carry out exploration work on the area. Exploration work has been carried on and paid for by the Company.
Once financing for the Al Masane project is obtained, either the Company or Arabian Mining plan to formally apply for an expanded exploration license for an area of approximately 2,800 square kilometers which includes the original Greater Al Masane area plus the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas. In the event commercially exploitable minerals are found, then any exploration license(s) granted by the government could be converted into mining leases upon application to the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
Reference is made to the map on page 10 of this Report for information concerning the location of the foregoing areas.
Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr. The Wadi Qatan area is located in southwestern Saudi Arabia. Jebel Harr is north of Wadi Qatan. Both areas are approximately 30 kilometers east of the Al Masane area. These areas consist of 40 square kilometers, plus a northern extension of an additional 13 square kilometers. The Company's geological, geophysical and limited core drilling disclosed the existence of massive sulfides containing an average of 1.2% nickel. Reserves for these areas have not yet been classified and additional exploration work is required. After obtaining an exploration license for the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas,
the Company or Arabian Mining would continue its exploratory drilling program in order to prove whether enough ore reserves exist to justify a viable mining operation. While initial indications are encouraging, there is no assurance that a viable mining operation could be established.
Greater Al Masane. The Company has filed an exploration license application, which has been verbally approved, for an area of approximately 1,100 square kilometers around Al Masane, which is also referred to as Greater Al Masane. This area includes an ancient gold mining prospect at Jubal Guyan, about six miles east of the original Al Masane prospect and seven miles west of Wadi Qatan. Although an exploration license has not been formally granted, the Saudi Arabian government has given the Company written authorization to conduct exploration work in the area. Core samples indicate an average grade of 7 grams of gold per tonne. Additional sampling is being conducted at Jubal Guyan, and after the results of the sampling are obtained, an evaluation will be made as to any future drilling locations. Geological, geochemical and geophysical work on the Greater Al Masane area has revealed mineralization similar to that discovered at Al Masane.
As previously stated, the Company does not possess current formal exploration licenses for any of the above areas. The absence of such licenses creates uncertainty regarding the Company's rights and obligations, if any, in these areas. The Company believes it has satisfied the Saudi Arabian government's requirements in these areas and that the government should honor the Company's claims.
U.S. MINERAL INTERESTS
The Company's mineral interests in the United States include its ownership interests in the Coal Company and Pioche. The Coal Company sole remaining asset is its net operating loss carryforward of approximately $5.9 million at December 31, 1998 and its future, if any, is uncertain. Pioche also has been inactive for many years.
Nevada Mining Properties. Pioche's properties include 48 patented and 80 unpatented claims totaling approximately 3,500 acres. All the claims are located in the Pioche Mining District, Lincoln County, Nevada. There are prospects and mines on these claims that previously produced silver, gold, lead, zinc and copper. The ore bodies are both oxidized and sulfide deposits, classified into three groups: fissure veins in quartzite, mineralized granite porphyry and replacement deposits in carbonate rocks (limestone and dolomites). An Exploration Agreement and Option to Purchase between Pioche and a large mining company was terminated during 1998. The mining company paid all annual taxes and claim rentals during the agreement's term.
There is a 300-ton-a-day processing mill on property owned by Pioche. The mill is not currently in use and a significant expenditure would be required in order to put the mill into continuous operation.
OFFICES
The Company has a year-to-year lease on space in an office building in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, used for office occupancy. The Company also leases a house in Jeddah that is used as a technical office and for staff housing. The Company continues to lease office space in Dallas, Texas on a month-to-month basis. It also owns a base camp and accompanying facilities and equipment at the Al Masane project site.
ITEM 3.