ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
UNITED STATES SPECIALTY PRODUCTS FACILITY
South Hampton owns and operates a specialty petrochemical products facility near Silsbee, Texas. The facility presently consists of six operating units which, while interconnected, make distinct products through differing processes: (i) a PenHex unit; (ii) a Reformer; (iii) a Cyclo-pentane unit; (iv) an Aromax(R) unit; (v) an aromatics hydrogenation unit; and (vi) a white oil fractionation unit. All of these units are currently in operation.
The capacity of the facility's processes when taken in total is approximately 4,950 barrels per run day. The facility generally consists of equipment commonly found in most petroleum refineries such as fractionation towers and hydrogen treaters except the facility is adapted to produce highly specialized products that are high purity, highly consistent, precise specification materials utilized in the petrochemical industry as solvents, additives, blowing agents and cooling agents. South Hampton produces eight distinct product streams and markets several combinations of blends as needed in various customers' applications. South Hampton produces neither motor fuel products nor any other products commonly sold directly to retail consumers or outlets.
The products from the PenHex Unit, Reformer, Aromax(R) Unit, and Cyclo-pentane Unit are marketed directly to the customer by South Hampton's marketing personnel. These units had the following utilization rates during 2004 on a calendar day basis: PenHex Unit- 96.5%; Reformer- 63.3%; Cyclo-pentane Unit- 94%; Aromax(R) Unit- 43.7%. The total material charged to these units averaged approximately 3,120 barrels per day, out of approximately 3,650 BPD of capacity, or an average of 85.5% utilization. All production was essentially sold during the year and no excess inventories were developed. The Reformer and Aromax(R) units are operated as needed to support the PenHex and Cyclo-pentane Units and therefore the utilization rates of these units are lower.
The other two operating units at the plant site, an Aromatics Hydrogen Treating Unit and a White Oils Fractionation Unit, are operated as two, independent and completely segregated processes. They are dedicated to the needs of two different toll processing customers. The customers supply
and maintain title to the feedstock, South Hampton processes the feedstock into products based upon customer specifications, and the customers market the products. Products may be sold directly from South Hampton's storage tanks or may be taken to the customer's location for storage and marketing. The units have a combined capacity of 1,400 BPD and realized a utilization rate of 1,062 BPD or 75.8%. The units are operated in accordance with customer needs, and the contracts call for take or pay minimums of production.
To meet market demand, the South Hampton has increased the capacity of the PenHex Unit by 30%. Equipment was being purchased in late 2004 and a construction permit was issued by the TCEQ in late January 2005. Expansion was accomplished primarily by the addition of two (2) larger towers and rearrangement of existing equipment. The Expanded capacity was put into service and was fully operational by the end of the first quarter 2005. Additionally, South Hampton signed an agreement in late January 2005 with one of the toll processing customers calling for an expansion of the White Oils Fractionation Unit by October 2005. Capacity will be doubled to a minimum of 2000 BPD. Procurement of additional equipment is underway and construction will commence following completion of work on the PenHex Unit. All permits are in place.
South Hampton, in support of the petrochemical operation, owns approximately 100 storage tanks with a total capacity of approximately 320,000 barrels, and 133 acres of land, approximately 78 acres of which are developed. South Hampton also owns a truck and railroad loading terminal consisting of eight storage tanks, a rail spur and truck and tank car loading facilities.
As a result of various expansion programs and the toll processing contracts, essentially all of the standing equipment at South Hampton is operational. South Hampton has surplus equipment on-site with which to assemble additional processing units, such as a hydro-cracking unit with a 2,000 BPD capacity.
Gulf State owns and operates three (3) 8-inch diameter pipelines aggregating approximately 50 miles in length that connect South Hampton's facility to: (1) a natural gas line, (2) South Hampton's truck and rail loading terminal and (3) a marine terminal owned by an unaffiliated third party. South Hampton leases storage facilities at this marine terminal.
MEXICO SPECIALTY PRODUCTS FACILITY, COATZACOALCOS, MEXICO
The Coin specialty petrochemical products facility is similar to South Hampton's facility in Silsbee, Texas, but is less developed, having only the PenHex Unit. The capacity is 600 BPD, or approximately 25% of the capacity of the Silsbee plant. The Coin facility also produces high purity solvents, which are used in the expandable polystyrene and polystyrene foam industries. In addition, these solvents are approved and used by developers of high-density polyethylene manufacturing processes for use in licensed units. Coin markets its products in Mexico, Latin America and the United States. With the Coin acquisition, the Company believes its petrochemical operations are a significant supplier of high purity solvents in those markets. Coin employs 24 persons. Coin's operations are dependent upon Pemex (Mexican government owned vendor) for its feedstock supply. In late 2003, Coin secured a purchase contract with Pemex for feedstock and purchased material throughout 2004 on a prepaid basis at a price competitive with normal spot market pricing.
The Coin facility was shut down much of 2000 and 2001 due to the high cost of feedstock and low margins. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the facility began to operate at reduced rates and in the first quarter of 2002 was running at capacity. The facility operated at about 50% capacity during
much of the remainder of 2002. The Coin facility shut down in early 2003 and remained essentially idle until March 2004. Since that time the facility has operated continuously and has sold its product primarily in Mexico, with the remainder being marketed by South Hampton in the United States.
As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in February 2004, a creditor initiated mortgage foreclosure proceedings against Coin which resulted in a court ordered award of Coin's plant facilities to the creditor. The legal transfer of ownership has yet to occur. The Company is pursuing all available remedies at law, to prevent or delay such legal action but has no assurance it will prevail. If the creditor prevails, Coin would have no more than thirty days to vacate the premises. During March 2005, an additional procedure in the process to transfer title occurred, such that, management believes that it is probable title to the plant in Coatzacolacos will ultimately be transferred to the creditor or its assignee. As a result, management recorded the loss on the foreclosure of the facility with a charge to consolidated operations of $2,900,964 during the fourth quarter of 2004.
SAUDI ARABIA MINING PROPERTIES
AL MASANE PROJECT
The Al Masane project, consisting of a mining lease area of approximately 44 square kilometers, contains extensive ancient mineral workings and smelters. From ancient inscriptions in the area, it is believed that mining activities went on sporadically from 1000 BC to 700 AD. The ancients are believed to have extracted mainly gold, silver and copper.
Initial Exploration Work and Prior Feasibility Studies. The Saudi Arabian government granted the Company exploration licenses for the Al Masane and Wadi Qatan areas in 1971. Subsequently, the Company conducted substantial geological and geophysical activities in these areas. Core drilling and studies by independent consulting firms concluded that Al Masane's copper, zinc, gold and silver prospects could be put in production sooner than the nickel prospect at Wadi Qatan. Metallurgical tests also showed difficulty in separating the nickel at Wadi Qatan. During 1977, a pre-feasibility mining study was conducted at Al Masane by the mining consulting firm of Watts, Griffis and McOuat Limited of Toronto, Canada ("WGM"). WGM recommended an extensive development program for the Al Masane prospect.
Phase I of WGM's recommended Al Masane development program was completed in April 1981. It involved construction of underground tunnels parallel to the ore bodies totaling 3.9 kilometers in length from which extensive underground core drilling was done in order to prove the quantity and quality of the ore reserves. This work was financed primarily with an $11 million interest-free loan from the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Finance. As a result of this work, WGM concluded that sufficient ore reserves had been established to justify completion of a fully bankable feasibility study to determine the economic potential of establishing a commercial mining and ore treatment operation at Al Masane. WGM and SNC/GECO of Montreal, Canada conducted this study in 1982. They concluded that the Al Masane deposits would support commercial production of copper, zinc, gold and silver and recommended implementation of Phase II of the Al Masane development program, which would involve the construction of mining, ore treatment and support facilities. WGM's September 1984 reevaluation of the project resulted in no substantial changes of their initial conclusions and recommendations.
The Company continued its exploration work at Al Masane after 1984. Consequently, WGM upwardly revised its reserve estimates in 1989 and again concluded that a proposed mining operation was economically viable as well as having high potential for the discovery of additional ore zones.
Current Feasibility Studies. The Saudi government granted the Company a mining lease for the Al Masane area on May 22, 1993. The Company subsequently commissioned WGM to prepare a new fully bankable feasibility study to be used to obtain financing for commercial development of the project. The study, which was completed in 1994, contained specific recommendations to insure that project construction was accomplished expeditiously and economically. The engineering design and costing portions of the study were performed by Davy International of Toronto, Canada ("Davy"). WGM and Davy updated this study in 1996. A summary of the studies' findings are as follows:
The Al Masane ore is located in three mineralized zones known as Saadah, Al Houra and Moyeath. The following table sets forth a summary of the diluted minable, proven and probable ore reserves at the Al Masane project, along with the estimated average grades of these reserves:
For purposes of calculating proven and probable reserves, a dilution of 5% at zero grade on the Saadah zone and 15% at zero grade on the Al Houra and Moyeath zones was assumed. A mining recovery of 80% has been used for the Saadah zone and 88% for the Al Houra and Moyeath zones. Mining dilution is the amount of wallrack adjacent to the ore body that is included in the ore extraction process.
Proven reserves are those mineral deposits for which quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and grade is computed from results of detailed sampling. For ore deposits to be proven, the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement must be spaced so closely and the geologic character must be so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable reserves are those for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. However, the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, must be high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
The metallurgical studies conducted on the ore samples taken from the zones indicated that 87.7% of the copper and 82.6% of the zinc could be recovered in copper and zinc concentrates. Overall, gold and silver recovery from the ore was estimated to be 77.3% and 81.3%, respectively, partly into copper concentrate and partly as bullion through cyanide processing of zinc concentrates and mine tailings. Further studies recommended by consultants may improve those recoveries and thus the potential profitability of the project; however, there can be no assurances of this effect.
The mining and milling operation recommended by WGM for Al Masane would involve the production of 2,000 tonnes of ore per day (700,000 tonnes per year), with a mine life of over ten years. Annual production is estimated to be 34,900 tonnes of copper concentrate (25% copper per tonne) containing precious metal and 58,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate (54% zinc per tonne). Total output per year of gold and silver is estimated to be 22,000 ounces of gold and 800,000 ounces of silver from the copper concentrate and bullion produced. The construction of mining, milling and infrastructure facilities is estimated to take 21 months to complete. Construction necessary to bring the Al Masane project into production includes the construction of a 2,000 tonne per day concentrator, infrastructure with a 300 man housing facility and the installation of a cynidization plant to increase the recovery of precious metals from the deposit. Project power requirements will be met by diesel generated power.
WGM recommended that the Al Masane reserves be mined by underground methods using trackless mining equipment. Once the raw ore is mined, it would be subjected to a grinding and treating process resulting in three products to be delivered to smelters for further refining. These products are zinc concentrate, copper concentrate and Dore bullion. The copper and zinc concentrates also contain valuable amounts of gold and silver. These concentrates and the Dore bullion to be produced from the cynidization plant are estimated to be 22,000 ounces of gold and 800,000 ounces of silver and will be sold to copper and zinc custom smelters and refineries worldwide. After the smelter refining process, the metals could be sold by the Company or the smelter for the Company's account in the open market.
In the 1994 feasibility study, WGM stated that there is potential to find more reserves within the lease area, as the ore zones are all open at depth. Further diamond drilling, which will be undertaken by the Company, is required to quantify the additional mineralization associated with these zones. A significant feature of the Al Masane ore zones is that they tend to have a much greater vertical plunge than strike length; relatively small surface exposures such as the Moyeath zone are being developed into sizeable ore tonnages by thorough and systematic exploration. Similarly, systematic prospecting of the small gossans in the area could yield significant tonnages of new ore.
The 1996 update showed the estimated capital cost to bring the project into operation to be $89 million. At a production rate of 700,000 tonnes per year, the operating cost of the project (excluding concentrate freight, ship loading, smelter charges, depreciation, interest and taxes) was estimated to be $38.49 per tonne of ore milled.
WGM prepared an economic analysis of the project utilizing cash flow projections. A base case was prepared that included those project elements which were most likely to be achieved. WGM believed that a majority of the base case assumptions used in the 1994 feasibility study remained valid, including the ore reserves, mill feed grade, production rate, metal recoveries and concentrate grade and smelter returns. Metal prices, capital costs, operating costs and the corporate structure were adjusted to reflect more current information. Capital and operating costs were adjusted in conformity with the updated estimates prepared by Davy.
The base case assumed the corporate structure of the entity to be formed to operate the project would be owned 50% by the Company and 50% by Saudi Arabian investors and that the owners of this entity would contribute an aggregate of $26 million to the cost of the project. The base case further assumed financing for the project from commercial loans in the aggregate amount of $25 million bearing interest at the rate of 8% per year and a loan in the amount of $38 million from the Saudi Industrial Development Fund ("SIDF") repayable in equal annual installments over the initial life of the mine. Cash generated by the operation of the project would contribute
the remainder of the project financing. The base case assumed that the $11 million loan outstanding to the Saudi Arabian government would be paid by the Company in accordance with a repayment schedule to be agreed upon with the Saudi Arabian government from the Company's share of the project's cash flows. Based on these assumptions, and assuming the average prices of metal over the life of the mine to be $1.05 per pound for copper, $.60 per pound for zinc, $400 per ounce of gold and $6.00 per ounce of silver, WGM's economic analysis of the 1996 base case showed the project would realize an internal rate of return of 13.1%, the Company's and the Saudi Arabian investors' internal rates of return would be 27.3% and 12.1%, respectively, and projected net cash flow (after debt repayment) from the project of $95.1 million. The 1994 feasibility study base case showed the project would realize a 14.05% internal rate of return. Cash flow under the base case is exclusive of income tax as the base case assumes that any such tax would be paid by individual investors and not by the project. Assuming a 10% discount rate, the net present value of the project as shown in the 1996 update was $12.16 million compared to the $15.5 million net present value of the project shown in the 1994 feasibility study. Based on the 1996 update, WGM believed that the economic analysis showed that the project remained viable.
In February 2005, for purposes of estimating future cash flows, the price assumptions contained in the WGM 1996 report were updated by an independent consultant, who had previously prepared updated cash flow projections in 2000 through 2004. The new price assumptions are averages over the projected ten-year life of the mine and are $1.40 per pound for copper ($1.05 in 2004), $.53 per pound for zinc ($.61 in 2004), $400 per ounce for gold ($375 in 2004) and $6.50 per ounce for silver ($5.50 in 2004). Copper and zinc comprise in excess of 80% of the expected value of production. Although these prices are lower than those used in the 1996 WGM report, the project remains viable.
Mining Lease. As the holder of the Al Masane mining lease, the Company is solely responsible to the Saudi Arabian government for the rental payments and other obligations provided for by the mining lease and repayment of the previously discussed $11 million loan. The Company's interpretation of the mining lease is that repayment of this loan will be made in accordance with a repayment schedule to be agreed upon with the Saudi Arabian government from the Company's share of the project's cash flows. The initial term of the lease is for a period of thirty (30) years from May 22, 1993, with the Company having the option to renew or extend the term of the lease for additional periods not to exceed twenty (20) years. Under the lease, the Company is obligated to pay advance surface rental in the amount of 10,000 Saudi riyals (approximately $2,667 at the current exchange rate) per square kilometer per year (approximately $117,300 annually) during the period of the lease. At December 31, 2003, approximately $586,000 of rental payments was in arrears. The Company, in accordance with the most recent agreement with the Ministry, paid $266,000 of the back payments on January 3, 2005, and is scheduled to pay the remaining $320,000 on December 31, 2005. In addition, the Company must pay income tax in accordance with the income tax laws of Saudi Arabia then in force and pay all infrastructure costs. The Saudi Arabian Mining Code provides that income tax will not be due during the first stage of mining operations, which is the period of five years starting from the earlier of (i) the date of the first sale of products or (ii) the beginning of the fourth year since the issue of the mining lease. The lease gives the Saudi Arabian government priority to purchase any gold production from the project as well as the right to purchase up to 10% of the annual production of other minerals on the same terms and conditions then available to other similar buyers and at current prices then prevailing in the free market. Furthermore, the lease contains
provisions requiring that preferences be given to Saudi Arabian suppliers and contractors, that the Company employ Saudi Arabian citizens and provide training to Saudi Arabian personnel.
Reference is made to the map on page 16 of this Report for information concerning the location of the Al Masane project.
Project Financing. As detailed above, the estimated total capital cost to bring the Al Masane project into production is $89 million. The Company does not presently have sufficient funds to bring this project into production. Also, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of these matters.
Pursuant to the mining lease agreement, when the Al Masane project is profitable the Company is obligated to form a Saudi public stock company with the Saudi Arabian Mining Company, a corporation wholly owned by the Saudi Arabian government ("Ma'aden"), as successor to and assignee of the mining interests formerly held by the Petroleum Mineral Organization ("Petromin"). Ma'aden is the Saudi Arabian government's official mining company. In 1994, the Company received instructions from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stating that it is possible for the Company to form a Saudi company without Petromin (now Ma'aden), but the sale of stock to the Saudi public could not occur until the mine's commercial operations were profitable for at least two years. The instructions added that Petromin (now Ma'aden) still had the right to purchase shares in the Saudi public stock company any time it desires. Title to the mining lease and the other obligations specified in the mining lease would be transferred to the Saudi public stock company. However, the Company would remain responsible for repaying the $11 million loan to the Saudi Arabian government.
In order to commercially develop the Al Masane project, the Company entered into a joint venture arrangement with Al Mashreq Company for Mining Investments ("Al Mashreq"), a Saudi limited liability company owned by Saudi Arabian investors (including certain of the Company's shareholders). The partners formed The Arabian Shield Company for Mining Industries Ltd., a Saudi limited liability company ("Arabian Mining"), which was officially registered and licensed in August 1998 to conduct business in Saudi Arabia and authorized to mine and process minerals from the Al Masane lease area. Arabian Mining received conditional approval for a $38.1 million interest-free loan from SIDF, and deposited $26 million of equity capital into its bank account.
In 1998, due to the severe decline in the open market prices for the minerals to be produced by the Al Masane project and the financial crisis affecting southeast Asia, SIDF and other potential lenders required additional guarantees and other financing conditions which were unacceptable to the Company and Al Mashreq. As a consequence, Al Mashreq withdrew from the joint venture and all equity capital was returned.
By letter dated May 11, 1999, the Company informed the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources (the "Ministry") that the recent sharp drop in the market prices of the metals to be produced from the mine at Al Masane, as a result of the economic crisis in southeast Asia, made implementation of the development of the mine uneconomical at that time and that, as a result, the Company would delay implementation of the project until metal prices recovered.
The Ministry notified the Company one year later that it must immediately implement the project and in the fall of 2000 further notified the Company that the project should be immediately implemented or the mining lease would be terminated. A second notice from the Ministry several weeks later stated that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia had recommended giving the Company six months to take positive steps to
implement the project. A written notice from the Ministry in the Summer of 2001 stated that the Council of Ministers of Saudi Arabia had issued a resolution in which it refused the Company's request to postpone implementation of the project, that the Company must start implementation of the project within six months of the date of the resolution and that, if the project was not then started, the Ministry was authorized to begin procedures to terminate the mining lease. Subsequent correspondence from the Ministry in the fall and winter of 2001 and into 2002 reiterated the threat to terminate the mining lease if the project was not immediately implemented. A letter from the Ministry in March 2002 stated that the six-month period to implement the project had expired without the Company taking positive steps towards that end.
The Company has vigorously contested the legality of the threats of the Ministry to terminate the Company's mining lease. The Company has written numerous letters to the Ministry, and the Company and its Saudi Arabian legal advisors also have had meetings with officials of the Ministry. In September 2002, the Company sent a letter to Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Abdullah Ben Abdul Aziz, in his capacity as Deputy Chairman of the Saudi Supreme Council of Petroleum and Minerals (the King of Saudi Arabia is the chairman), in which the Company contested the legality of the threats of the Ministry to terminate the mining lease and requested his advice. As stated in its letters to the Ministry and the Crown Prince, the Company believes that the Ministry's letters to the Company asking for the implementation of the project, without any regard to metal market conditions, is contrary to the Saudi Mining Code and the mining lease agreement. In addition, the Company has had correspondence and a meeting with the United States Ambassador to Saudi Arabia where the Company presented its opinion regarding the legality of the Ministry's actions. This opinion also was conveyed in a letter to the United States Secretary of Commerce, who replied that the United States Embassy is working to set up meetings with Saudi Arabian government officials in an effort to resolve the matter. The Secretary of Commerce assured the Company that the Department of Commerce has a strong commitment in helping United States companies whenever possible. In a further letter from the Department of Commerce, signed by William H. Lash III, Assistant Secretary for Market Access and Compliance, dated March 6, 2003, it was stated: "After investigating the matter, the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh has been informed by the Ministry of Petroleum that it did not cancel your mining lease. According to the Ministry, it is waiting development of the site by Arabian American Development Company."
On February 23, 2004, the Company's President received a letter from the Deputy Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stating that the Council of Ministers had issued a resolution, dated November 17, 2003, which directed the Minister, or whomever he may designate, to discuss with the President of the Company the implementation of a work program, similar to that which is attached to the Company's mining lease, to start during a period not to exceed two years, and the payment of the past due surface rentals. If agreeable, a document is to be signed to that effect. The resolution stated further that, if no agreement is reached, the Ministry of Finance will give the Council of Ministers its recommendation regarding the $11 million loan granted to the Company.
After discussions with the Deputy Minister, the Company President responded, in a letter to the Minister dated March 23, 2004, that the Company will agree to abide by the resolution and will start implementing the work program to build the mine, treatment plant and infrastructure within two years from the date of the signed agreement. The work program was prepared by the Company's technical consultants and was attached to the letter. The Company also will agree to pay the past due surface rentals, which now total approximately $586,000, in two equal installments, the first on December 31, 2004 and the second on December 31, 2005 and will
continue to pay the surface rentals as specified in the Mining Lease Agreement. On May 15, 2004, an agreement was signed with the Ministry covering these provisions. In the event the Company does not start to implement the program during the two-year period, the matter will be referred to the concerned parties to seek direction in accordance with the Mining Code and other concerned codes.
The Company, on January 3, 2005, paid the first installment of the surface rentals for the Al Masane mining lease area in the amount of $266,000 in accordance with the terms of the agreement with the Ministry. The second installment of $320,000 is due on December 31, 2005.
The Saudi Government published and implemented the new Mining Code on October 22, 2004 which contains several provisions the Company believes beneficial, not the least of which is a reduction of taxes on profits from 45% to 20%.
The Company, in a letter to the Minister dated February 2, 2005, asked that the Company be granted fair compensation for the loss it incurred due to the severe drop in the value of its stock. The drop in value coincided with the delay in issuing the mining lease, and with the threat of termination of the lease during the 1999 to 2004 time frame and continued through the May 15, 2004 agreement when the Council of Ministries resolved to allow the Company two more years to implement the project. The Ministry in its reply did not agree that the Company deserved compensation. On February 24, 2005, the Company again wrote the Minister, re-stating the arguments for fair compensation, and asked that the matter be referred to arbitration in accordance with Article (58) of the new Mining Code. On March 4, 2005 the Company received the Ministry's reply rejecting the request for arbitration and suggested that the Company refer the matter to the Court of Grievances, which is the governing court of law in the Kingdom.
The Company is consulting with counsel on further steps which might be taken, however any such action will not affect the Company's right to implement the Al Masane project. The feasibility study is being updated and if positive, as expected, the Company will again seek joint venture partners to assist in implementing the project. There are no assurances that the Company's efforts will be successful.
Other Exploration Areas in Saudi Arabia
During the course of its exploration and development work in the Al Masane area, the Company has carried on exploration work in other areas in Saudi Arabia. In 1971, the Saudi Arabian government awarded the Company exclusive mineral exploration licenses to explore and develop the Wadi Qatan area in southwestern Saudi Arabia. The Company was subsequently awarded an additional license in 1977 for an area north of Wadi Qatan at Jebel Harr. These licenses have expired.
In 1999, the Company applied for an exploration license covering an area of approximately 2,850 square kilometers, which surrounds the Al Masane mining lease area and includes the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas. This area is referred to as the Greater Al Masane area. The Company has been authorized in writing by the Saudi Arabian government to carry out exploration work in the area. Previous exploration work has been carried on and paid for by the Company. The application for the new exploration licenses is still pending and is expected to be acted upon now that the new Saudi Arabian Mining Code has been approved.
Reference is made to the map on page 16 of this Report for information concerning the location of the foregoing areas.
Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr. The Wadi Qatan area is located in southwestern Saudi Arabia. Jebel Harr is north of Wadi Qatan. Both areas are approximately 30 kilometers east of the Al Masane area. These areas consist of 40 square kilometers, plus a northern extension of an additional 13 square kilometers. The Company's geological, geophysical and limited core drilling disclosed the existence of massive sulfides containing an average of 1.2% nickel. Reserves for these areas have not yet been classified and additional exploration work is required. When the Company obtains an exploration license for the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas, the Company intends to continue its exploratory drilling program in order to prove whether enough ore reserves exist to justify a viable mining operation; however there is no assurance that a viable mining operation could be established.
Greater Al Masane. On June 22, 1999, the Company submitted a formal application for a five-year exclusive mineral exploration license for the Greater Al Masane area of approximately 2,850 square kilometers, which surrounds the Al Masane mining lease area and includes the Wadi Qatan and Jebel Harr areas. The Company previously worked in the Greater Al Masane area after obtaining written authorization from the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources and has expended over $3 million on exploration work. Geophysical, geochemical and geological work and diamond core drilling on the Greater Al Masane area has revealed mineralization similar to that discovered at Al Masane. A detailed exploration program and expenditures budget accompanied the application. The Company indicated on its application that it would welcome the participation of Ma'aden in this license. Ma'aden, which has expressed an interest in the Greater Al Masane area, also was informed directly by the Company that its participation as a joint venture partner in the license would be welcomed.
As previously stated, the Company does not possess current formal exploration licenses for any of the above areas. The absence of such licenses creates uncertainty regarding the Company's rights and obligations, if any, in these areas. The Company believes it has satisfied the Saudi Arabian government's requirements in these areas and that the government should honor the Company's claims.
The new Mining Code, adopted by the Saudi government in October, 2004, specifies that the size of an exploration license cannot exceed one hundred (100) square kilometers. However, there is no restriction on how many exploration licenses can be held by one party simultaneously. The Company intends to select the best areas of the previously explored Greater Al Masane Area, and to re-apply for those individually. The applications, per the Mining Code should be acted upon by the Minister within 30 working days. Any refusal may be appealed to the Board of Grievances within 30 days of the date of the ruling notice.
UNITED STATES MINERAL INTERESTS
The Company's mineral interests in the United States are its ownership interests in Pioche. Pioche has been inactive for many years.
Nevada Mining Properties. Pioche's properties include 48 patented and 5 unpatented claims totaling approximately 1,500 acres. All the claims are located in the Pioche Mining District, Lincoln County, Nevada. There are prospects and mines on these claims that previously produced silver, gold, lead, zinc and copper. The ore bodies are both oxidized and sulfide deposits, classified into three groups: fissure veins in quartzite, mineralized granite porphyry and replacement deposits in carbonate rocks (limestone and dolomites). There is a 300-ton-a-day processing mill on property owned by Pioche. The mill is not currently in use and a significant expenditure would be required in order to put the mill into continuous operation, if commercial mining is to be conducted on the property.
OFFICES
The Company has a year-to-year lease on space in an office building in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, used for office occupancy. The Company also leases a house in Jeddah that is used as a technical office and for staff housing. The Company continues to lease office space in Dallas, Texas on a month-to-month basis. It also owns a base camp and accompanying facilities and equipment at the Al Masane project site.
[MAP]
ITEM 3.