Item 2. Properties.
The assets of the Registrant consist principally of the Royalty Properties, which constitute interests in gross production of oil, gas and other minerals free of the costs of production. The Royalty Properties consist of royalty and mineral interests, including landowner’s royalties, overriding royalty interests, minerals (other than executive rights, bonuses and delay rentals), production payments and any other similar, nonparticipatory interest, in certain producing and proved undeveloped oil and gas properties located in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. These properties are represented by approximately 5,400 tracts of land. Approximately 2,950 of the tracts are in Oklahoma, 1,750 in Texas, 330 in Louisiana, 200 in New Mexico, 150 in Mississippi and 12 in Florida.
The following table summarizes total developed and proved undeveloped acreage represented by the Royalty Properties at December 31, 2020.
Detailed information concerning the number of wells on royalty properties is not generally available to the owner of royalty interests. Consequently, the Registrant does not have information that would be disclosed by a company with oil and gas operations, such as an accurate count of the number of wells located on the Royalty Properties, the number of exploratory or development wells drilled on the Royalty Properties during the periods presented by this report, or the number of wells in process or other present activities on the Royalty Properties, and the Registrant cannot readily obtain such information.
Title
The conveyances of the Royalty Properties to the Trust covered the royalty and mineral properties located in the six states that were vested in Sabine Corporation on the effective date of the conveyances and that were subject to existing oil, gas and other mineral leases other than properties specifically excluded in the conveyances. Since Sabine Corporation may not have had available to it as a royalty owner information as to whether specific lands in which it owned a royalty interest were subject to an existing lease, minimal amounts of nonproducing royalty properties may also have been conveyed to the Trust. Sabine Corporation did not warrant title to the Royalty Properties either expressly or by implication.
Reserves
The Registrant has obtained from DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineering consultants, a study of the proved oil and gas reserves attributable as of January 1, 2021 to the Royalty Properties. The following letter report summarizes such reserve study and sets forth information as to the assumptions, qualifications, procedures and other matters relating to such reserve study. Because the only assets of the Trust are the Royalty Properties, the Trustee believes the reserve study provides useful information for Unit holders. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production. The reserve data set forth herein, although prepared by independent petroleum engineers in a manner customary in the industry, are estimates only, and actual quantities and values of oil and gas are likely to differ from the estimated amounts set forth herein. In addition, the reserve estimates for the Royalty Properties will be affected by future changes in sales prices for oil and gas produced. See Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof for additional unaudited information regarding the proved oil and gas reserves of the Trust. Other than those filed with the SEC, our estimated reserves have not been filed with or included in any reports to any federal agency.
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment. As a result, the Trustee has developed internal policies and controls for estimating reserves attributable to the Trust. As described above, the Trust does not have information that would be available to a company with oil and gas operations because detailed information is not generally available to owners of royalty interests.
The Trustee gathers production information (which information is net to the Trust’s interests in the Royalty Properties) and provides such information to DeGolyer and MacNaughton, who extrapolates from such information estimates of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties based on its expertise in the oil and gas fields where the Royalty Properties are situated, as well as publicly available information. The Trust’s policies regarding reserve estimates require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance.
DeGolyer and MacNaughton, the independent petroleum engineering consultants who prepared the reserve study, have provided petroleum consulting services for more than 70 years. Dilhan Ilk, Senior Vice President with DeGolyer and MacNaughton, was the primary engineer responsible for the report. Dr. Ilk’s qualifications are set forth in the Certificate of Qualification attached to the letter report below.
DeGolyer and MacNaughton
5001 Spring Valley Road
Suite 800 East
Dallas, Texas 75244
February 23, 2021
Simmons Bank
2911 Turtle Creek Blvd, Suite 850
Dallas, Texas 75219-6291
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Pursuant to the request of Sabine Royalty Trust (the Trust), this report of third party presents an independent evaluation, as of January 1, 2021, of the extent and value of the estimated net proved developed producing oil, condensate, natural gas liquids (NGL), and gas reserves of certain properties in which the Trust has represented it holds an interest. This evaluation was completed on February 23, 2021. The properties evaluated herein consist of royalties located in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. Simmons Bank acts as trustee of the Trust. Simmons Bank has represented that these properties account for 100 percent of revenues attributed to royalty interest payments received by the Trust as of January 1, 2021. The net proved developed producing reserves estimates have been prepared in accordance with the reserves definitions of Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(32) of Regulation S-X of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This report was prepared in accordance with guidelines specified in Item 1202 (a)(8) of Regulation S-K and is to be used for inclusion in certain SEC filings by the Trust.
Reserves estimates included herein are expressed as net reserves. Gross reserves are defined as the total estimated petroleum remaining to be produced from these properties after December 31, 2020. Net reserves are defined as that portion of the gross reserves attributable to the interests held by the Trust after deducting all interests held by others.
Values for proved developed producing reserves in this report are expressed in terms of future gross revenue, future net revenue, and present worth. Future gross revenue is defined as that revenue which will accrue to the evaluated interests from the production and sale of the estimated net reserves. Future net revenue is calculated by deducting production taxes, ad valorem taxes, and transportation expenses from future gross revenue. Transportation expenses include marketing, processing, and other expenses that are charged to the royalty interests. At the request of the Trust, future income taxes were not taken into account in the preparation of these estimates. Present worth is defined as future net revenue discounted at a nominal discount rate of 10 percent per year compounded monthly over the expected period of realization. Present worth should not be construed as fair market value because no consideration was given to additional factors that influence the prices at which properties are bought and sold.
Estimates of reserves and revenue should be regarded only as estimates that may change as further production history and additional information become available. Not only are such estimates based on that information which is currently available, but such estimates are also subject to the uncertainties inherent in the application of judgmental factors in interpreting such information.
Information used in the preparation of this report was obtained on behalf of the Trust from Simmons Bank and from public sources. Additionally, this information includes data supplied by IHS Markit Inc; Copyright 2021 IHS Markit Inc. In the preparation of this report we have relied, without independent verification, upon information furnished by Simmons Bank with respect to the property interests being evaluated, production from such properties, current costs of operation and development, current prices for production, agreements relating to current and future operations and sale of production, and various other information and data that were accepted as represented. A field examination was not considered necessary for the purposes of this report.
Definition of Reserves
Petroleum reserves included in this report are classified as proved developed producing. Only proved developed producing reserves have been evaluated for this report. Producing reserves are those developed reserves expected to be recovered from completion intervals that are open and producing at the time of the estimate. Reserves classifications used in this report are in accordance with the reserves definitions of Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(32) of Regulation S-X of the SEC. Reserves are judged to be economically producible in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions and assuming continuation of current regulatory practices using conventional production methods and equipment. In the analyses of production-decline curves, reserves were estimated only to the limit of economic rates of production under existing economic and operating conditions using prices and costs consistent with the effective
date of this report, including consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements but not including escalations based upon future conditions. The petroleum reserves are classified as follows:
Proved oil and gas reserves - Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
(i) The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes:
(A) The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (B) Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data.
(ii) In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty.
(iii) Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty.
(iv) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when:
(A) Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and (B) The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities.
(v) Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
Developed oil and gas reserves - Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered:
(i) Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and
(ii) Through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves - Undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
(i) Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances.
(ii) Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
(iii) Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir, as defined in [section 210.4-10 (a) Definitions], or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
Methodology and Procedures
Estimates of reserves were prepared by the use of appropriate geologic, petroleum engineering, and evaluation principles and techniques that are in accordance with the reserves definitions of Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(32) of Regulation S-X of the SEC and with practices generally recognized by the petroleum industry as presented in the publication of the Society of Petroleum Engineers entitled “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information (revised June 2019) Approved by the SPE Board on 25 June 2019.” The method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data, and production history.
Based on the current stage of field development, production performance, the development plans provided by the Trust, and analyses of areas offsetting existing wells with test or production data, reserves were classified as proved developed producing.
For depletion-type reservoirs or those whose performance disclosed a reliable decline in producing-rate trends or other diagnostic characteristics, reserves were estimated by the application of appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. In the analyses of production-decline curves, reserves were estimated only to the limits of economic production as defined under the Definition of Reserves heading of this report. Because the Trust is unable to provide actual operating expenses for the properties evaluated (since the Trust’s interests are only royalty interests), typical operating expenses, based on our knowledge of the area and/or field operations, were used to determine the economic limits of production.
In certain cases, reserves were estimated by incorporating elements of analogy with similar wells or reservoirs for which more complete data were available.
Data provided by the Trust from wells drilled through December 31, 2020, and made available for this evaluation were used to prepare the reserves estimates herein. These reserves estimates were based on consideration of monthly production data available for certain properties only through October 2020. Estimated cumulative production, as of January 1, 2021, was deducted from the estimated gross ultimate recovery to estimate gross reserves. This required that production be estimated for up to 2 months.
Oil and condensate reserves estimated herein are to be recovered by normal field separation. NGL reserves estimated herein include pentanes and heavier fractions (C5+) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), which consists primarily of propane and butane fractions, and are the result of low-temperature plant processing. Oil, condensate, and NGL reserves included in this report are expressed in thousands of barrels (Mbbl). In these estimates 1 barrel equals 42 United States gallons. For reporting purposes, oil and condensate reserves have been estimated separately and are presented herein as a summed quantity.
Gas quantities estimated herein are expressed as sales gas. Sales gas is defined as the total gas to be produced from the reservoirs, measured at the point of delivery, after reduction for fuel usage, flare, and shrinkage resulting from field separation and processing. Gas reserves estimated herein are reported as sales gas. Gas quantities are expressed at a temperature base of 60 degrees Fahrenheit (°F) and at the pressure base of the state in which the quantities are located. Gas quantities included in this report are expressed in millions of cubic feet (MMcf).
Gas quantities are identified by the type of reservoir from which the gas will be produced. Nonassociated gas is gas at initial reservoir conditions with no oil present in the reservoir. Associated gas is both gas-cap gas and solution gas. Gas-cap gas is gas at initial reservoir conditions and is in communication with an underlying oil zone. Solution gas is gas dissolved in oil at initial reservoir conditions. Gas quantities estimated herein include both associated and nonassociated gas.
The Trust has represented that it holds several thousand individual royalty interests. In view of the small reserves volumes attributable to many of these individual interests, certain of the reserves representing approximately 46 percent of the total net reserves of the properties included herein were summarized by state or area and estimated in the aggregate rather than on a property-by-property basis. Historical records of net production and revenue and our general knowledge of producing characteristics in the areas involved were used in evaluating these grouped properties.
Primary Economic Assumptions
Revenue values in this report were estimated using initial prices, expenses, and costs provided by Simmons Bank. Future prices were estimated using guidelines established by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The following economic assumptions were used for estimating the revenue values reported herein:
Oil, Condensate, and NGL Prices
The oil, condensate, and NGL prices were based on a reference price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements. Differentials to a West Texas Intermediate oil reference price of $39.54 per barrel were based on royalty receipts received by the Trust, as provided by Simmons Bank. The prices were held constant thereafter. The volume-weighted average prices attributable to the estimated proved developed producing reserves over the lives of the properties were $36.88 per barrel of oil and condensate and $13.36 per barrel of NGL.
Gas Prices
The gas prices were based on a reference price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements. Differentials to the Henry Hub gas reference price of $2.03 per million Btu were based on royalty receipts received by the Trust, as provided by Simmons Bank. The prices were held constant thereafter. Btu factors provided by Simmons Bank were used to convert prices from dollars per million Btu to dollars per thousand cubic feet. The volume-weighted average price attributable to the estimated proved developed producing reserves over the lives of the properties was $1.615 per thousand cubic feet of gas.
Production and Ad Valorem Taxes
Production taxes were calculated using rates provided by Simmons Bank, including, where appropriate, abatements for enhanced recovery programs. Ad valorem taxes were calculated using rates provided by Simmons Bank based on recent payments by the Trust.
Operating Expenses, Capital Costs, and Abandonment Costs
The properties evaluated are royalties. Therefore, no operating expenses, capital costs, or abandonment costs are incurred. Because the Trust is unable to provide actual operating expenses for the properties evaluated, typical operating expenses, based on our knowledge of the area and/or field operations, were used to determine the economic limits of production.
Several properties incur additional expenses related to transportation, marketing, processing, and other expenses that are charged to the royalty interests. These expenses are reported as transportation expenses. These expenses were not adjusted for inflation.
In our opinion, the information relating to estimated proved developed producing reserves, estimated future net revenue from proved developed producing reserves, and present worth of estimated future net revenue from proved developed producing reserves of oil, condensate, NGL, and gas contained in this report has been prepared in accordance with Paragraphs 932-235-50-4, 932-235-50-6, 932-235-50-7, 932-235-50-9, 932-235-50-30, and 932-235-50-31(a), (b), and (e) of the Accounting Standards Update 932-235-50, Extractive Industries - Oil and Gas (Topic 932): Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures (January 2010) of the FASB and Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(32) of Regulation S-X and Rules 302(b), 1201, and 1202(a) (1), (2), (3), (4), (8) of Regulation S-K of the SEC; provided, however, that (i) future income tax expenses have not been taken into account in estimating the future net revenue and present worth values set forth herein and (ii) estimates of the proved developed producing reserves are not presented at the beginning of the year.
To the extent the above-enumerated rules, regulations, and statements require determinations of an accounting or legal nature, we, as engineers, are necessarily unable to express an opinion as to whether the above-described information is in accordance therewith or sufficient therefor.
Summary of Conclusions
The estimated net proved developed producing reserves, as of January 1, 2021, of the properties evaluated herein were based on the definition of proved developed reserves of the SEC and are summarized by state as follows, expressed in thousands of barrels (Mbbl) and millions of cubic feet (MMcf):
The estimated future revenue to be derived from the production and sale of the net proved developed producing reserves, as of January 1, 2021, of the properties evaluated using the guidelines established by the SEC is summarized as follows, expressed in thousands of dollars (M$):
While the oil and gas industry may be subject to regulatory changes from time to time that could affect an industry participant’s ability to recover its reserves, we are not aware of any such governmental actions which would restrict the recovery of the January 1, 2021, estimated reserves.
DeGolyer and MacNaughton is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that has been providing petroleum consulting services throughout the world since 1936. DeGolyer and MacNaughton does not have any financial interest, including stock ownership, in the Trust. Our fees were not contingent on the results of our evaluation. This report has been prepared at the request of the Trust. DeGolyer and MacNaughton has used all assumptions, data, procedures, and methods that it considers necessary and appropriate to prepare this report.
Submitted,
/s/ DeGolyer and MacNaughton
DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON
Texas Registered Engineering Firm
\s\ Dilhan Ilk
P.E.Dilhan Ilk, P.E.
Senior Vice President
DeGolyer and MacNaughton
CERTIFICATE of QUALIFICATION
I, Dilhan Ilk, Petroleum Engineer with DeGolyer and MacNaughton, 5001 Spring Valley Road, Suite 800 East, Dallas, Texas, 75244 U.S.A., hereby certify:
1. That I am a Senior Vice President with DeGolyer and MacNaughton, which firm did prepare this report of third party addressed to Simmons Bank dated February 23, 2021, and that I, as Senior Vice President, was responsible for the preparation of this report of third party.
2. That I attended Istanbul Technical University, and that I graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering in the year 2003, a Master of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University in 2005, and a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University in 2010; that I am a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas; that I am a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers; and that I have in excess of 10 years of experience in oil and gas reservoir studies and reserves evaluations.
\s\ Dilhan Ilk
P.E.Dilhan Ilk, P.E.
Senior Vice President
DeGolyer and MacNaughton
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting the future rates of production and timing of development. The preceding reserve data in the letter regarding the study represent estimates only and should not be construed to be exact. The estimated present worth of future net revenue amounts shown by the study should not be construed as the current fair market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves since a market value determination would include many additional factors.
Reserve estimates may be adjusted from time to time as more accurate information on the volume or recoverability of existing reserves becomes available. Actual reserve quantities do not change, however, except through production. The Trust continues to own only the Royalty Properties that were initially transferred to the Trust at the time of its creation and is prohibited by the Trust Agreement from acquiring additional oil and gas interests.
The future net revenue shown by the study has not been reduced for administrative costs and expenses of the Trust in future years. The costs and expenses of the Trust may increase in future years, depending on the amount of income from the Royalty Properties, increases in the Trustee’s fees (including escrow agent fees) and expenses, accounting, engineering, legal and other professional fees, and other factors. It is expected that the costs and expenses of the Trust in 2021 will be approximately $3,200,000.
The present value of future net revenue of the Trust's proved developed reserves decreased from $158,709,976 at January 1, 2020 to $120,769,475 at January 1, 2021. This decrease resulted primarily from the commodity prices used in the calculation of such amount, from an average price of $51.71 per barrel of oil, $16.77 per barrel of NGL and $2.106 per Mcf of gas at January 1, 2020 to an average price of $36.88 per barrel of oil, $13.36 per barrel of NGL and $1.615 per Mcf of gas at January 1, 2021.
Subsequent to year end, the price of both oil and gas continued to fluctuate, giving rise to a correlating adjustment of the respective standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. As of March 8, 2021, NYMEX posted oil prices were approximately $65.03 per barrel, which compared to the average posted price of $39.54 per barrel, used to calculate the worth of future net revenue of the Trust's proved developed reserves, would result in an increase in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows for oil. As of March 8, 2021, NYMEX posted gas prices were $2.67 per million British thermal units. The use of such price, as compared to the average posted price of $2.03 per million British thermal units, used to calculate the future net revenue for the Trust's proved developed reserves would result in an increase in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows for gas.
The volatile nature of the world energy markets makes it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and gas. The prices obtained for oil and gas depend upon numerous factors, none of which is within the Trustee’s control, including the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas and the price of foreign imports, market demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the availability of pipeline capacity, instability in oil-producing regions and the effect of governmental regulations.
Item 3.