Item 2. Properties.
The assets of the Registrant consist principally of the Royalty Properties, which constitute interests in gross production of oil, gas and other minerals free of the costs of production. The Royalty Properties consist of royalty and mineral interests, including landowner’s royalties, overriding royalty interests, minerals (other than executive rights, bonuses and delay rentals), production payments and any other similar, nonparticipatory interest, in certain producing and proved undeveloped oil and gas properties located in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. These properties are represented by approximately 5,400 tracts of land. Approximately 2,950 of the tracts are in Oklahoma, 1,750 in Texas, 330 in Louisiana, 200 in New Mexico, 150 in Mississippi and 12 in Florida.
The following table summarizes total developed and proved undeveloped acreage represented by the Royalty Properties at December 31, 2005.
Detailed information concerning the number of wells on royalty properties is not generally available to the owner of royalty interests. Consequently, the Registrant does not have information that would be disclosed by a company with oil and gas operations, such as an accurate count of the number of wells located on the Royalty Properties, the number of exploratory or development wells drilled on the Royalty Properties during the periods presented by this report, or the number of wells in process or other present activities on the Royalty Properties, and the Registrant cannot readily obtain such information.
Title
The conveyances of the Royalty Properties to the Trust covered the royalty and mineral properties located in the six states that were vested in Sabine Corporation on the effective date of the conveyances and that were subject to existing oil, gas and other mineral leases other than properties specifically excluded in the conveyances. Since Sabine Corporation may not have had available to it as a royalty owner information as to whether specific lands in which it owned a royalty interest were subject to an existing lease, minimal amounts of nonproducing royalty properties may also have been conveyed to the Trust. Sabine Corporation did not warrant title to the Royalty Properties either expressly or by implication.
Reserves
The Registrant has obtained from DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineering consultants, a study of the proved oil and gas reserves attributable as of January 1, 2006 to the Royalty Properties. The following letter report summarizes such reserve study and sets forth information as to the assumptions, qualifications, procedures and other matters relating to such reserve study. Because the only assets of the Trust are the Royalty Properties, the Trustee believes the reserve study provides useful information for Unit holders. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production. The reserve data set forth herein, although prepared by independent petroleum engineers in a manner customary in the industry, are estimates only, and actual quantities and values of oil and gas are likely to differ from the estimated amounts set forth herein. In addition, the reserve estimates for the Royalty Properties will be affected by future changes in sales prices for oil and gas produced. See Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof for additional information regarding the proved oil and gas reserves of the Trust. Other than those filed with the SEC, our estimated reserves have not been filed with or included in any reports to any federal agency.
DeGolyer and MacNaughton
5001 Spring Valley Road
Suite 800 East
Dallas, Texas
March 7, 2006
Bank of America, N.A.
P. O. Box 830650
Dallas, Texas 75283-0650
Gentlemen:
Pursuant to your request, we have prepared estimates of the extent and value of the proved crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids (NGL), and natural gas reserves, as of January 1, 2006, of certain royalty interests owned by Sabine Royalty Trust (the Trust). The properties appraised consist of royalties located in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. Bank of America, N.A. (Bank of America) acts as trustee of the Trust.
Information used in the preparation of this report was obtained from Bank of America, from records on file with the appropriate regulatory agencies, and from public sources. Additionally, this information includes data supplied by Petroleum Information/ Dwights LLC; Copyright 2006 Petroleum Information/ Dwights LLC. During this investigation, we consulted freely with officers and employees of Bank of America and were given access to such accounts, records, geological and engineering reports, and other data as were desired for examination. In the preparation of this report we have relied, without independent verification, upon information furnished by Bank of America with respect to property interests owned by the Trust, production from such properties, current prices for production, agreements relating to current and future operations and sale of production, and various other information and data that were accepted as represented. It was not considered necessary to make a field examination of the physical condition and operation of the properties in which the Trust owns interests.
Our reserves estimates are based on a detailed study of the properties and were prepared by the use of standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, consideration of the stage of development, and the quality and completeness of basic data. The Trust owns several thousand royalty interests. In view of the limited information available to a royalty owner and the small reserves volumes attributable to many of these interests, certain of the reserves representing approximately 41 percent of the total reserves of the properties included herein were summarized by state or field and estimated in the aggregate rather than on a property-by-property basis. Historical records of net production and revenue and experience with similar properties were used in evaluating these properties.
Reserves estimated in this report are expressed as gross and net reserves. Gross reserves are defined as the total estimated petroleum to be produced from these properties after December 31, 2005. Net reserves are defined as that portion of the gross reserves attributable to the interests owned by the Trust after deducting royalties and other interests held by others. Gas volumes shown herein are sales-gas volumes and are expressed at a temperature base of 60 degrees Fahrenheit and at the legal pressure base of the state in which the interest is located. Sales gas is defined as the total gas to be produced from the reservoirs, measured at the point of delivery, after reduction for fuel usage, flare, and shrinkage resulting from field separation and processing. Condensate reserves estimated herein are those to be recovered by normal field separation. NGL reserves are those attributed to the leasehold interests according to processing agreements.
Petroleum reserves included in this report are classified by degree of proof as proved and are judged to be economically producible in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating
conditions and assuming continuation of current regulatory practices using conventional production methods and equipment. In the analyses of production-decline curves, reserves were estimated only to the limit of economic rates of production under existing economic and operating conditions using prices and expenses as of the date the estimate is made, including consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements but not including escalations based upon future conditions. Proved reserves classifications used in this report are in accordance with the reserves definitions of Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(13) of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of the United States. The petroleum reserves are classified as follows:
Proved oil and gas reserves - Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and expenses as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
(i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (B) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
(ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the “proved” classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
(iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (A) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as “indicated additional reserves”; (B) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite, and other such sources.
Proved developed oil and gas reserves - Proved developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should be included as “proved developed reserves” only after testing by a pilot project or after the operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved.
Proved undeveloped reserves - Proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no circumstances should estimates for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same reservoir.
The development status shown herein represents the status applicable on January 1, 2006. In the preparation of this study, data available from wells drilled on the appraised properties through October 31, 2005, were used in estimating gross ultimate recovery. When applicable, gross production estimated to January 1, 2006, was deducted from gross ultimate recovery to arrive at the estimates of gross reserves as of January 1, 2006. In some fields, this required that the production rates be estimated for up to 4 months, since production data were available only through August 2005.
Estimated net proved reserves, as of January 1, 2006, attributable to the Trust from the properties appraised are summarized in thousands of barrels (Mbbl) or millions of cubic feet (MMcf) as follows:
Revenue values in this report are expressed in terms of estimated future net revenue and present worth of future net revenue. These values are based on the continuation of prices in effect on January 1, 2006. Future gross revenue is defined as that revenue to be realized from the production and sale of the estimated net reserves. Future net revenue is calculated by deducting estimated severance and ad valorem taxes from the future gross revenue. Present worth of future net revenue is calculated by discounting the future net revenue at the arbitrary rate of 10 percent per year compounded monthly over the expected period of realization.
Revenue values in this report were estimated using the initial prices and expenses provided by Bank of America. Future prices were estimated using guidelines established by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The initial and future prices used in this report are adjusted to prices on January 1, 2006, based on receipts by the Trust in December 2005. The assumptions used for estimating future prices and expenses are as follows:
Oil, Condensate, NGL, and Natural Gas Prices
Oil, condensate, NGL, and natural gas prices, based on receipts by the Trust in December 2005, were furnished by Bank of America. These prices were adjusted to the NYMEX posted prices for oil of $60.32 per barrel and for gas of $10.06 per million British thermal units, and were held constant for the lives of the properties. The weighted average prices over the lives of the properties were $53.65 per barrel of oil and $8.64 per thousand cubic feet.
Expenses
The properties appraised are royalties. Therefore, no operating expenses or capital costs are incurred. The expenses reported are primarily severance taxes and ad valorem taxes, which are based on historical tax rates furnished by Bank of America. Several properties incur additional expenses related to transportation, marketing, and/or other expenses that are charged to the royalty interests. These expenses are reported as transportation expenses. No escalation has been applied to the expenses.
A projection of the estimated future net revenue from the properties appraised, as of January 1, 2006, based on the aforementioned assumptions concerning prices and expenses is summarized as follows, expressed in thousands of dollars (M$):
The present worth, at a discount rate of 10 percent, of future net revenue, as of January 1, 2006, is estimated to be M$287,777.
Estimates of oil, condensate, NGL, and gas reserves and future net revenue should be regarded only as estimates that may change as further production history and additional information become available. Not only are such reserves and revenue estimates based on that information which is currently available, but such estimates are also subject to the uncertainties inherent in the application of judgmental factors in interpreting such information.
In our opinion, the information relating to estimated proved reserves, estimated future net revenue from proved reserves, and present worth of estimated future net revenue from proved reserves of oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, and gas contained in this report has been prepared in accordance with Paragraphs 10-13, 15 and 30(a)-(b) of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69 (November 1982) of the FASB and Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(13) of Regulation S-X and Rule 302(b) of Regulation S-K of the SEC; provided, however, that (i) certain estimated data have not been provided with respect to changes in reserves information, (ii) future income tax expenses have not been taken into account in estimating the future net revenue and present worth values set forth herein, and (iii) at the request of Bank of America and because of the limited availability of data, proved reserves, future net revenue therefrom, and the present worth thereof for certain royalty interests accounting for approximately 41 percent of the Trust’s total proved reserves have been estimated in the aggregate by state or field rather than on a property-by-property basis using net production and revenue data and our general knowledge of producing characteristics in the geographic areas in which such interests are located.
To the extent that the above-enumerated rules, regulations, and statements require determinations of an accounting or legal nature or information beyond the scope of our report, we are necessarily unable to express an opinion as to whether the above-described information is in accordance therewith or sufficient therefor.
Submitted,
DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON
/s/ Paul J. Szatkowski, P.E.
Paul J. Szatkowski, P.E.
Senior Vice President
DeGolyer and MacNaughton
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting the future rates of production and timing of development. The preceding reserve data in the letter regarding the study represent estimates only and should not be construed to be exact. The estimated present worth of future net revenue amounts shown by the study should not be construed as the current fair market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves since a market value determination would include many additional factors.
Reserve estimates may be adjusted from time to time as more accurate information on the volume or recoverability of existing reserves becomes available. Actual reserve quantities do not change, however, except through production. The Trust continues to own only the Royalty Properties that were initially transferred to the Trust at the time of its creation and is prohibited by the Trust Agreement from acquiring additional oil and gas interests.
The future net revenue shown by the study has not been reduced for administrative costs and expenses of the Trust in future years. The costs and expenses of the Trust may increase in future years, depending on the amount of income from the Royalty Properties, increases in the Trustee’s fees (including escrow agent fees) and expenses, accounting, engineering, legal and other professional fees, and other factors. It is expected that the costs and expenses of the Trust in 2006 will be approximately $2,280,000.
The present value of future net revenue of the Trust’s proved developed reserves increased from $194,229,373 at January 1, 2005 to $289,141,236 at January 1, 2006. This increase resulted primarily from the gas prices used in the calculation of such amount, from $5.66 per Mcf of gas at January 1, 2005 to $8.64 per Mcf of gas at January 1, 2006, as well as an increase in the price of oil from $39.14 per barrel of oil at January 1, 2005 to $53.65 per barrel of oil at January 1, 2006.
Subsequent to year end, the price of both oil and gas continued to fluctuate, giving rise to a correlating adjustment of the respective standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. As of March 6, 2006, the NYMEX posted oil price was approximately $62.41 per barrel, which compared to the posted price of $60.32 per barrel, used to calculate the worth of future net revenue of the Trust’s proved developed reserves, would result in a larger standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows for oil. As of March 6, 2006, the NYMEX posted gas price was $6.49 per million British thermal units. The use of such price, as compared to the posted price of $10.06 per million British thermal units, used to calculate the future net revenue to the Trust’s proved developed reserves would result in a smaller standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows for gas.
The volatile nature of the world energy markets makes it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and gas. The prices obtained for oil and gas depend upon numerous factors, none of which is within the Trustee’s control, including the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas and the price of foreign imports, market demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the availability of pipeline capacity, instability in oil-producing regions and the effect of governmental regulations.
Item 3.