Item 2. Properties
The Company, at December 31, 1997, owned fee title to 36 properties and a "sandwich" lease position with respect to one property. The 36 properties (referred to herein collectively as the "Properties" and individually as a "Property") are located in 14 states.
(1) Masco Corporation guarantees 25% of the basic rent during the original lease term.
(2) The lease is guaranteed by Barnes & Noble, Inc.
(3) KMart Corporation has subleased the entire space to Rhodes, Inc.
(4) This lease is guaranteed by Ultimate Electronics, Inc.
(5) If tenant converts the property to cooperative ownership, the lease term is extended for 150 years from the date of conversion.
(6) The Company holds a "sandwich" lease position. It is the tenant under a master lease and Landlord under an operating lease.
(7) The Company leases these properties to unrelated third parties. The Seattle property is leased by the Company's tenant to United Artists Theatre Circuit, Inc., and the Columbus Property to the Kroger Company.
(8) The May Department Store Company was the original tenant under these leases and remains contingently liable under these leases.
Additional Information Concerning Certain Of The Properties
As of December 31, 1997, the following Properties owned by the Company either had a book value equal to or greater than 10% of the total assets of the Company or revenues which accounted for more than 10% of the Company's aggregate gross revenues.
Columbus, Ohio Property
Description of Columbus, Ohio Property
The Columbus, Ohio Property, constructed in 1996, is located at 5600 Britton Parkway, West of 1-270. The property is in a suburb of Columbus, approximately 12 miles Northwest of downtown Columbus. This 6.228 acre property is improved with a 97,328 square foot furniture showroom/retail store, of which 93,928 is located on grade and 3,400 is mezzanine office space. The property contains 270 parking spaces.
Description of Columbus, Ohio Property Lease
Lease Term The Property is leased to Kittles' Home Furnishing Center, Inc. ("Kittles") for a fifteen year term expiring November 30, 2011. The Tenant has five successive five year renewal options.
Amounts Payable Under the Columbus, Ohio Lease
The basic annual rental is $738,764 through November 1999, increasing to $807,267 per annum for the period December 1999 to November 2002 and increasing every three years thereafter during the original term.
The lease is a triple net lease and requires the Tenant to pay, in addition to basic annual rent, all real estate taxes, assessments, insurance, common area maintenance and structural and non-structural repairs.
Maintenance and Modifications
The Tenant is required to keep the Property in good condition and repair, including all structural and non-structural portions (roof, foundations, floors, building systems) and all sidewalks, landscaping and driveways.
The Tenant is precluded from making any structural alterations to the building and building systems, and to the exterior of the building, without Landlord's prior consent which is not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Tenant is permitted to make interior non-structural alterations without Landlord's consent, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions specified in the lease.
Insurance
Landlord is required to carry fire, extended coverage, vandalism, and malicious mischief and similar risk insurance insuring the Property (excluding Tenant's merchandise, trade fixtures, equipment and other personal property) for the full replacement value. Tenant is to reimburse Landlord for Landlord's annual premium costs. Tenant is required to carry liability insurance.
Damage to or Condemnation of Columbus, Ohio Property
If the building is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty, Landlord, within 120 days, is required to commence repair and within 210 days restore the building to substantially the condition it was in prior to the casualty.
In the event any portion of the building is taken by eminent domain so that Tenant is unable to carry on its business in substantially the same manner as prior to the taking, then the lease shall terminate at the election of either Landlord or Tenant. If more than 20% of the parking area is taken by condemnation, Tenant has the right to terminate the lease as of the date of taking. If, after a taking by eminent domain, neither Landlord or Tenant elects to terminate the lease, Tenant shall remain in the portion of the building not taken, Landlord is required to restore the remaining portion to a complete unit of like quality and character and rental payments are to be adjusted on an equitable basis. If Landlord is required to restore it is not required to spend more for the restoration that it received in the condemnation as an award, less any amount paid to a mortgagee.
Mortgage
In December, 1997 the Company obtained a $4,325,000 nonrecourse first mortgage loan from Lehman Brothers Holding, Inc. The mortgage bears interest at 7.33% per annum and matures in December, 2007. The mortgage is being amortized based on a 30 year amortization schedule. Assuming no additional payments are made on the principal in advance of the maturity date, the principal balance due at maturity will be approximately $3,800,000. The Company has the option of prepaying this mortgage in whole or in part provided it pays a prepayment premium based on a yield maintenance formula.
Total Petroleum Properties
Description of Total Petroleum Properties Although the Total Petroleum Properties consist of thirteen separate properties located in various towns and cities in the State of Michigan, they are considered as one property for the purpose of determining if they are "materially important" real properties. The Total Petroleum Properties are all service stations and include gasoline pumping islands, a service area and a retail building used as a convenience store.
Description of Total Petroleum Leases
Lease Term The Total Petroleum Properties have 13 separate but identical leases dated as of May 15, 1991 (Total Petroleum Leases). The primary lease term for the Total Petroleum Properties is 20 years ending on May 31, 2011. Total Petroleum has the right to extend the leases for two 10 year renewal terms, but the renewal options can only be exercised on an all or none basis. The Total Petroleum Leases contain cross default provisions which provide that on a monetary default resulting in the termination of a lease, the Landlord has a right to terminate any or all of the other leases.
Amounts Payable under the Total Petroleum Leases The combined annual rent for all 13 properties is $912,456 through May 14, 1998, increasing by 3% each May 15th throughout the term of the lease. The leases are net leases, which requires Total Petroleum to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, and all utility charges.
Maintenance and Modifications Total Petroleum is required, at its expense, to maintain the Total Petroleum Properties in good repair and is responsible to keep each property in reasonably clean condition. The Tenant at its sole expense may make any non-structural alterations, additions, replacements or improvements to the property without the Landlord's consent. The Tenant is required to obtain the Landlord's prior written consent for structural alterations, additions, replacements or improvements which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
Insurance Total Petroleum is required to maintain insurance at its expense providing for fire with standard extended risk coverage to the extent of the full replacement cost. So long as the Tenant's net worth exceeds $100,000,000 the deductible may be that which is provided in Total Petroleum's master corporate insurance policy, and if its net worth falls below $100,000,000 then the deductible shall not exceed $250,000 without Landlord's consent. In Management's opinion the Total Petroleum Properties are adequately covered by insurance.
Damage to or Condemnation of Property If any of the Total Petroleum Properties is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty there is to be no rent abatement and Total Petroleum is required to repair and restore the premises in a reasonable diligent manner. If, however, the premises are rendered untenantable, Total Petroleum may terminate the lease in which event it shall pay to the Company an amount sufficient to restore the premises to the condition existing as of the date the lease was executed, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
If all or any part of any of the properties is taken by condemnation so as to render the remaining portion of the property unsuitable for Tenant's business, then the rent due under the lease shall be equitably adjusted until such time as the Tenant provides Landlord with written notice that it elects to terminate the lease. If however, the Tenant does not vacate the property within ninety days of such taking then it is conclusively presumed that such taking is not extensive enough to render the premises unsuitable for Total Petroleum's business. In the event of a taking, damages awarded are payable as follows: (i) Total Petroleum is entitled to a portion of the award attributable to the value of its leasehold and (ii) Landlord is entitled to the value of its reversion. In allocating between the value of the leasehold and the reversion, the value of improvements and betterments made by the Tenant is to be equitably divided between leasehold and reversion. Each party is entitled to file a claim in any condemnation proceeding.
Option to Purchase Total Petroleum has been granted an option to purchase all locations at fair market value, excluding the value of the improvements made by it. This option may be exercised during the last six months of the term of the lease. Fair market value is to be determined by an appraisal process.
Right of First Refusal Total Petroleum has been granted a right of first refusal to purchase a Total Petroleum Property from the Company for the same purchase price and on the same terms and conditions as a bona fide offer to purchase received by the Company from an unrelated party which is engaged in, or plans to engage in the business of selling petroleum products, which offer the Company intends to accept.
Mortgage The Total Petroleum Properties are owned free and clear of mortgages.
Contract to Purchase Gold Street, Brooklyn Property The Company has entered into a contract to acquire a single-tenanted building located on Gold Street, Brooklyn, New York for a consideration of $6,700,000. The property will be acquired by a limited liability company in which the Company will be the principal member. Although not yet fully agreed upon, it is contemplated that the operating agreement of the limited liability company will provide that the minority member (who brought the transaction to the attention of the Company) will receive an annual distribution of $20,000; thereafter the Company will receive all cash flow until it has received repayment of all cash invested by it plus a 15% return; thereafter all cash flow (including sale and refinancing proceeds) will be distributed 95% to the Company and 5% to the minority member.
In connection with the acquisition, a $4,500,000 mortgage financing will be consummated for a five year term, providing for interest at 7.5% and a 25 year amortization schedule. North Fork Bank has issued a commitment to make this mortgage loan. The property is net leased to the New York City Transit Authority for a term which expires October 15, 2002 and provides for an annual rental of $850,000.
Lease Expirations The following table sets forth scheduled lease expirations for all leases for the Properties as of December 31, 1997.
Current Net Rentable Annual % of Rents Square Feet Rents Under Represented Year of Lease Number of Leases Subject to Expiring By Expiring Expiration (1) Expiring Expiring Leases Leases (2) Leases - ---------- -------- --------------- ---------- ------
1998 0 - - - 1999 2 6,125 $ 46,677 0.83% 2000 1 38,448 149,947 2.68% 2001 4 12,363 197,309 3.52% 2002 1 3,060 21,600 0.39% 2003 0 - - - 2004 1 55,370 42,000 0.75% 2005 0 - - - 2006 1 72,897 359,640 6.42% 2007 0 - - - 2008 and thereafter 25 923,494 4,783,471 85.41% -------- --------- ------
1,111,757 $5,600,644 100% ========= ========== ====
(1) Lease expirations assume tenants do not exercise existing renewal options.
(2) Reflects monthly base rent provided for under terms of each expiring lease as in effect on December 31, 1997 multiplied by 12 and does not take into account any contractual rent escalations.
(3) The Company's two vacant properties are not included in the above table.
Competition
The Company faces competition for the acquisition of net leased properties from other REITs, investment companies, insurance companies, pension funds and private individuals, some of whom have greater resources than the Company. The Company also faces indirect competition from institutions that provide or arrange for other types of commercial financing, such as traditional mortgage financing and traditional bank financing. The Company believes that its management's experience in real estate, mortgage lending, credit underwriting and transaction structuring allows it to compete effectively for properties.
Environmental Matters
Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, current or former owners of real estate, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances or waste or petroleum products or waste (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") released on, under, in or from such property, and may be held liable to governmental entities or to third parties for certain damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the release or threatened release of Hazardous Materials. Such laws typically impose responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or was responsible for the presence of Hazardous Materials, and the liability under such laws has been interpreted to be joint and several under such circumstances. The Company's leases generally provide that the tenant is responsible for all environmental liability and for compliance with environmental regulations relating to the tenant's operations. Such a contractual arrangement does not eliminate the Company's statutory liability or preclude claims against the Company by governmental authorities or persons who are not a party to such an arrangement. Contractual arrangements in the Company's leases may provide a basis for the Company to recover from the tenant damages or costs for which the Company has been found liable.
The cost of investigation and clean-up of Hazardous Materials on, under, in or from property can be substantial, and the fact that the property has had a release of Hazardous Materials, even if remediated, may adversely affect the value of the property and the owner's ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on a property in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the release or threatened release of Hazardous Materials, and certain state environmental laws provide that such a lien has priority over all other encumbrances on the property or that a lien can be imposed on other property owned by the responsible party. Finally, the presence of Hazardous Materials on a property could result in a claim by a private party for personal injury or a claim by a neighboring property owner for property damage.
Other federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing material when such material is in poor condition or in the event of building remodeling, renovation or demolition. Still other federal, state and local statutes, regulations and ordinances may require the removal or upgrading of underground storage tanks that are out of service or out of compliance. In addition, federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances may impose prohibitions, limitations and operational standards on, or require permits, approvals and notifications in connection with the discharge of wastewater and other water pollutants, the emission of air pollutants and operation of air polluting equipment, the generation and management of Hazardous Materials, and workplace health and safety. Non-compliance with environmental or health and safety requirements may also result in the need to cease or alter operations at a property, which could affect the financial health of a tenant and its ability to make lease payments. Furthermore, if there is a violation of such requirement in connection with a tenant's operations, it is possible that the Company, as the owner of the property, could be held accountable by governmental authorities for such violation and could be required to correct the violation.
The Company typically undertakes an investigation of potential environmental risks when evaluating an acquisition. Where warranted, Phase I and/or Phase II assessments are performed by independent environmental consulting and engineering firms. Phase I assessments do not involve subsurface testing, whereas Phase II assessments involve some degree of soil and/or groundwater testing. The Company may acquire a property which is known to have had a release of Hazardous Materials in the past, subject to a determination of the level of risk and potential cost of remediation. The Company normally requires property sellers to indemnify it against any environmental problem existing as of the date of purchase. Additionally, the Company normally structures its leases to require the tenant to assume all responsibility for environmental compliance or environmental remediation relating to the tenants operations at the Property.
Except for the environmental remediation undertaken by the Company at the Total Petroleum Properties, the Company has not been notified by any governmental authority of or become aware of non-compliance, liability or other claim in connection with any of the Properties.
In 1991, when the Company entered into lease agreements relating to 13 Total Petroleum Properties, the Company deposited $2,000,000 with an independent escrow agent, to cover remediation costs relating to environmental problems discovered at certain of the Total Petroleum Properties. The agreement between the Company and Total Petroleum limits the Company's maximum cost to $350,000 per location, with any excess cost being the responsibility of Total Petroleum. There are currently two locations which will require additional remediation efforts. As of December 31, 1997 there is approximately $781,000 held by the escrow agent, which the Company deems adequate.
Regulations and Insurance
Americans With Disabilities Act and Similar Laws. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain Federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. Although management of the Company believes that the Properties are substantially in compliance with present requirements of the ADA, the Company has not conducted and does not presently intend to conduct an audit or investigation to determine its compliance. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur additional costs in complying with the ADA.
Additional legislation may place further burdens or restrictions on owners with respect to access by disabled persons. The ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or such legislation is not currently ascertainable, but are not expected to have a material effect on the Company.
Insurance. Under substantially all leases, the Company's tenants are responsible for providing adequate insurance on the Properties they lease. The Company believes the Properties are covered by adequate fire, flood and property insurance.
Item 3.