ITEM 2. -- PROPERTIES
The Company, at December 31, 1995, owned fee title to thirty-two properties and a "sandwich" lease position with respect to one property. All properties are "net leased" to unrelated third parties. The Company obtained title insurance with respect to all properties owned by it in amounts equal to their respective purchase prices, insuring that the Company holds fee simple title to each property owned in fee and the leasehold position to the one lease position the Company holds, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, except those approved by the Company and those which have been created since the Company's acquisition of the properties, none of which materially impairs the value of the properties.
The following sets forth information relating to the materially important properties owned by the Company.
THE MAY PROPERTIES
DESCRIPTION OF MAY PROPERTIES
The eleven May Properties, which are located in eight states, are freestanding retail stores operated under the trade name Payless Shoe Source, as discount family shoe stores.
The typical May Property is a freestanding one story building containing approximately 3,100 square feet of space on a parcel of land containing approximately 15,000 square feet and located on a major commercial thoroughfare. Each building contains both storage and retail space.
DESCRIPTION OF MAY LEASES
LEASE TERM. The May Properties have 11 separate but identical leases ("May Leases"). The primary lease term for the May Properties is ten years ending on December 31, 1996. May has the
right to extend each lease for up to four additional terms of five years each. May has exercised its option to renew with respect to three locations and has otherwise extended a lease with respect to one location. As to the remaining locations the Company will seek to extend the lease with May or seek a new tenant or a buyer for each such property.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE MAY LEASES. From January 1, 1995 through December 31, 1996 the aggregate annual guaranteed minimum rental under the May leases is $540,201. Other than rentals, the provisions of each May Lease is substantially the same.
The May Leases are "net leases" and May is required to pay, in addition to the minimum rent, as additional rent, when due, together with every fine, penalty, interest and cost which may be added for nonpayment or late payment thereof, all taxes, assessments, levies, fees, water and sewer rents, charges, licenses, permit fees and all governmental charges with respect to the May Properties, and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of each of the May Properties.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. May is required, at its expense to maintain the May Properties, structural or otherwise, in a neat, clean and orderly condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
May, at its expense, is permitted to make interior nonstructural alterations and remodelings as it deems necessary or desirable for its purposes. Any exterior or structural alterations may be made only with the prior written consent of the Company.
INSURANCE. So long as May has a net worth of $100,000,000 or more, May may self-insure the May Properties. If its consolidated net worth falls below the above amount, May will maintain insurance on each May Property at its expense providing for fire, with extended coverage, comprehensive general public liability, workman's compensation and other insurance appropriate for properties similar to the May Properties in the states in which the May Properties are located.
DAMAGE TO, OR CONDEMNATION OF, A PROPERTY. In the event of a casualty, May is required at its expense to rebuild, replace or repair the damage to the Property so as to restore the Property to the condition and market value immediately prior to the occurrence. The cost thereof is first paid by May and the Company is then required to pay over to May the insurance proceeds. If, however, the Property shall be substantially damaged or destroyed so that the improvements are unsuitable or uneconomic for restoration for continued use and occupancy in the business of May, then May within time periods set forth in the leases, may terminate the lease on not less than 90 days notice and the insurance proceeds shall belong to the Company and the lease shall terminate on the specified termination date, except with respect to obligations and liabilities which arose prior to the termination date. The condemnation provisions of the leases provide in the event of a condemnation which affects all or a substantial portion of a Property and renders it unsuitable or uneconomical for restoration for continued use and occupancy in May's business then May within time periods set forth in the lease may terminate the lease upon not less than 90 days notice. If May is not entitled to or does not give notice of termination, then May is required at its expense to rebuild, replace or repair any damage to the Property, the restoration cost is to be paid initially by May out of its own funds with the condemnation proceeds then paid over to May.
MORTGAGE
The Company owns these properties on a free and clear basis.
KROGER PROPERTY
DESCRIPTION OF KROGER PROPERTY
The Kroger Property, located in Houston, Texas, is operated by Kroger as a supermarket. The Kroger Property is a one story freestanding building containing 38,448 square feet, located on an approximately 116,000 square foot parcel of land situated on a major commercial thoroughfare. The parcel contains 175 parking spaces.
DESCRIPTION OF KROGER LEASE
LEASE TERM. The term for the Kroger lease ("Kroger Lease") will expire on March 31, 2000. Kroger has the right to extend the Kroger Lease for up to five additional five-year renewal terms.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE KROGER LEASE. The fixed annual rental under the Kroger Lease is $149,947. During each year of the Kroger Lease, Kroger is also obligated to pay the Company an amount equal to 1% of Kroger's sales in such year in excess of $12,000,000. Expenses for taxes, insurance, common area maintenance and roof and structural repairs are to be credited to Kroger, for the year in which such expenses are paid, against the additional rent that might otherwise be due during such year.
Under the Kroger Lease, Kroger is required to pay, in addition to the minimum rent, all real estate taxes, assessments, water and sewer and other charges imposed by governmental authorities now or in the future which are applicable to the Kroger Property.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Kroger is required, at its expense, to maintain and keep in good repair the structure and the exterior of the building, including all equipment therein and to make all structural and nonstructural repairs and replacements. The Company is not required to repair or rebuild the Kroger Property or maintain it.
All remodeling, alterations and additions to the Property which Kroger may deem necessary are to be made at Kroger's expense. Major structural changes may only be made with the Company's written consent, which is not to be unreasonably withheld.
INSURANCE. Kroger is required to maintain insurance at its expense providing for fire, with extended coverage, in an amount not less than the full replacement value of the Kroger Property, and public liability insurance. Kroger may self insure if it has a net worth in excess of $300,000,000.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION OF, THE KROGER PROPERTY. Subject to the rights of any mortgagee, all proceeds of casualty insurance shall be made available to pay for the cost of restoration and repair if the Kroger Property is damaged or destroyed in whole or in part by fire or other casualty. The proceeds of any insurance policy shall be used for the purpose of defraying the cost of repairing, reconstructing or replacing the damaged or destroyed building or improvements thereof or the construction of a new building substantially the same as the damaged or destroyed building and in the event the insurance proceeds are insufficient to completely repair, reconstruct or replace the damaged or destroyed improvement substantially to the condition of such improvement prior to the casualty, and all of the insurance proceeds shall have been used for such purpose and none of such proceeds shall have been paid or applied against any mortgage indebtedness, then Kroger is to pay the difference between the total insurance collected and the total cost of repairing, reconstructing or replacing the damaged or destroyed building and improvements.
If the Kroger Property is taken in condemnation proceedings, or if a part of the property is taken in condemnation so that the property is unsatisfactory for Kroger's business operation, Kroger may cancel the lease, or at its option remain, in which event the Company is required to restore the property to proper rentable condition.
MORTGAGE
The Company owns this property on a free and clear basis.
MADISON AVENUE PROPERTY
DESCRIPTION OF MADISON AVENUE PROPERTY
The Madison Avenue Property, located on East 30th Street and Madison Avenue in New York, New York, is improved with two multi-family properties -- a thirteen story penthouse elevator building and a seven story elevator building, containing an aggregate of 126 apartments and ground floor retail stores. The property is located in mid-Manhattan, in primarily a commercial area, with some residential and hotels. The two buildings are located on a 13,000 square foot plot of land, have
frontage on both Madison Avenue and East 30th Street, and were constructed separately and subsequently joined. The properties were constructed in about 1910 and substantially renovated in approximately 1988.
DESCRIPTION OF MADISON AVENUE LEASE
LEASE TERM. The Madison Avenue Property is leased to an unaffiliated entity for a term expiring February 28, 2038. If tenant exercises its right to convert the property to cooperative ownerships then effective with the assignment of the lease the lease can be extended for 150 years. To the Company's knowledge, the tenant is not contemplating a cooperative conversion at the present time.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE MADISON AVENUE PROPERTY LEASE. The basic annual rental is $550,000 increasing to $600,000 in 1999 and by $50,000 each five years thereafter. If the conversion option is exercised, the basic annual rent is fixed for ten years from the date of conversion at the basic annual rental then being paid, increasing by $75,000 each ten years thereafter. If the conversion option is exercised, the Company is to receive a conversion premium which the Company has agreed to divide 50-50 with BRT, provided the conversion takes place on or before June 14, 2004. The Company acquired this property from BRT, an affiliated entity in June 1994 (see Form 8-K of the Company dated June 27, 1994).
The lease is a net lease and requires tenant to pay, in addition to basic annual rent, all real estate taxes and all utility and other charges applicable to the property during the term.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Tenant, at its expense, is required to make all structural and non-structural repairs and is required to maintain the property in good repair and condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
Tenant is permitted, under the lease, to make structural and non-structural alterations, improvements and additions provided (i) any such alteration, improvement or addition does not materially adversely affect the structural integrity or strength of the buildings or the value of the property, or any interest of Landlord and does not include structural demolition, and (ii) if the anticipated cost exceeds a specified amount (currently $150,000, increasing $50,000 each ten years commencing with 1999) Tenant is to give Landlord prior notice and furnish Landlord with such information as Landlord may reasonably request. In any event Tenant can't demolish any structural portions of the buildings without consent of Landlord. The lease specifies other Tenant obligations prior to Tenant commencing alterations, improvements or additions.
INSURANCE. Tenant is required to maintain fire insurance, with extended coverage, in an amount equal to 100% of replacement value, exclusive of footings and foundations with the deductible not to exceed $25,000, increasing every five years by the increase in the consumer price index. Tenant is also required to maintain rent insurance, comprehensive general public liability insurance, elevator and boiler insurance, and such other insurance, in such amounts, as reasonably required by Landlord.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION OF MADISON AVENUE PROPERTY. In the event of a casualty, Tenant at its expense, whether or not the insurance proceeds are sufficient, is required to repair the damage and restore, replace and rebuild the premises, at least to the extent of the value and as near as possible to the character prior to the casualty.
If there is a condemnation of all or substantially all the premises, Tenant may elect to terminate the lease, and in such event the lease shall terminate on the date the condemning authority takes title to the property. In the event of a condemnation of all or substantially all the property, the award is to be divided between Landlord and Tenant in the proportion each party's interest in the premises bears to the aggregate value of both party's interest in the property, as determined by arbitration, provided the Landlord is to receive as a priority payment an amount equal to the fixed annual rent then being paid under the lease multiplied by 10, with interest from the date of taking and then Tenant is to
receive the greater of (i) the sum of all amounts paid by Tenant for capital improvements, not to exceed $3,000,000 and (ii) all unpaid principal and interest and other sums due on any leasehold mortgage.
If there is a partial taking Tenant, at its sole expense, is to repair and reconstruct the premises. Any award is to be applied to such repair and reconstruction, and if the award exceeds the cost of repair and reconstruction, the excess is divided between Landlord and Tenant as provided in the Lease.
MORTGAGE
Simultaneously with its purchase of the property in June, 1994 for a consideration of $5,525,000 (plus closing costs) the Company obtained a $4,250,000 non-recourse first mortgage loan from East New York Savings Bank. The mortgage bears interest at 8.75% per annum during the initial 5 year term. The Company has an option to renew the mortgage for an additional five year term upon payment of a 1% extension fee. The interest rate during the extension period will be the greater of 8.75% or 275 basis points above U.S. Treasuries as defined in the mortgage agreement. The mortgage is being amortized based on a 25 year amortization schedule.
The Tenant has the right to mortgage the lease under terms and conditions set forth in the lease. Any fee mortgage on the premises is superior to any leasehold mortgage.
* * * * * * * * * * *
1995 TRANSACTION
On January 19, 1995 the Company acquired sixteen net lease investments and one mortgage receivable from Gould Investors L.P., an affiliated entity, i.e. the Kroger Freezer Warehouse - Columbus, Ohio, 13 Total Petroleum service stations-all located in the State of Michigan, the United Artists Theater - Seattle, Washington (and a second mortgage secured by this property) and the Zero City Frozen Food Warehouse - Miami, Florida. For a more detailed description of materially important properties acquired in the 1995 Transaction see the discussion below. In consideration of the acquisition of these properties, the Company transferred to Gould 1,030,000 shares of BRT Preferred Stock and 173,719 shares of beneficial interest of BRT, the Company took title to the 13 Total Petroleum service stations subject to a $6,850,000 blanket first mortgage (held by the Company and cancelled as a matter of law in the transaction) and the Company paid Gould $3.29 in cash. The Company recorded the assets acquired at the carrying amount of the assets exchanged, plus transaction costs.
DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL PROPERTIES ACQUIRED IN 1995 TRANSACTION
ZERO CITY FROZEN FOOD WAREHOUSE
DESCRIPTION OF ZERO CITY FROZEN FOOD WAREHOUSE
This property, located in Miami, Florida, is improved with a one story industrial building, with a partial mezzanine, cold rooms, freezers and processing area constructed on a 12 1/2 acre site. The Company is the tenant under a ground lease and landlord under an operating lease (holding what is commonly referred to in the real estate industry as a "sandwich position").
GROUND LEASE
An unrelated third party owns the fee title to this property, which is leased to the Company for a term which expires April 30, 2010, with three remaining 15 year renewal options and one 14 year renewal option. Through April 30, 1995 the Company paid rent at the annual rate of $322,300 and from May 1, 1995 to April 30, 2010 the Company will pay annual rent at the rate of $288,833. If the Company exercises the remaining renewal options the rental will be the greater of $288,833 and 7.5% of the value of the land and its improvements. If the fee owner refinances the mortgage on this property the Company is to receive 1/3 of the net proceeds thereof and/or 1/3 of any reduction in debt service, and will be obligated for 1/3 of the debt service obligation. The Company, pursuant to this ground lease, is obligated to pay all taxes and insurance and is responsible for structural repairs.
OPERATING LEASE
LEASE TERM. The Company is lessee of the ground lease which it holds subject to an operating lease with United States Cold Storage, Inc. The operating lease is for a term expiring April 30, 2010 with one remaining 15 year renewal option.
AMOUNT PAYABLE UNDER THE OPERATING LEASE. The tenant under the operating lease paid to the Company annual fixed rent of $475,200 to April 30, 1995 and will pay $425,000 thereafter through April 30, 2010 and the renewal term, if the option to renew is exercised. The operating lease is net to Landlord and Tenant is required to pay all taxes, insurance premiums and utility costs.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Tenant is to take good care of the premises and at its expense, make all repairs, structural and non-structural.
Tenant has the right during the lease to make alterations to the premises, but it requires the consent of Landlord if it substantially alters the basic structure or value of the improvements and any repair in excess of $50,000 requires Landlord's approval. Tenant cannot demolish any improvements to the premises without Landlord's consent. Tenant can construct an addition to any building or construct a new building on the property, but it requires Landlord's consent if the cost exceeds $50,000 and such addition or new construction, in any event, cannot detract from the existing improvements.
INSURANCE. Tenant, at its cost, is required to maintain fire insurance, with extended coverage in an amount not less than 80% of full repair and replacement value, boiler insurance and liability insurance. Tenant is also required to maintain insurance, in such amounts, as Landlord shall reasonably require against other insurable hazards.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION OF ZERO CITY FROZEN FOOD WAREHOUSE. In the event of damage or destruction of the premises as a result of fire or other casualty, Tenant can not terminate the lease and at its cost and expense, is to repair and restore the improvements to at least as good a condition as existed immediately prior to the casualty.
If there is a total condemnation of the property, the lease terminates as of the date of taking and any award is allocated as follows: (i) to Landlord such portion as is necessary to discharge all mortgages, provided such mortgages do not exceed $6,700,000, (ii) to Landlord the difference, if any between $6,700,000 and the amount received by Landlord to discharge mortgages, (iii) to Tenant an amount equal to the book value of Tenant's property, and (iv) the balance 50-50 to Landlord and Tenant.
MORTGAGE
The Company holds its leasehold position on a free and clear basis.
TOTAL PETROLEUM PROPERTIES
DESCRIPTION OF TOTAL PETROLEUM PROPERTIES
The Total Petroleum Properties, which are located in the State of Michigan, are all service stations and include gasoline pumping islands, a service area and a retail building used as a convenience store. The Total Petroleum Properties are on parcels of land ranging from 45,000 square feet to 183,000 square feet and the buildings on the properties range from 6,000 square feet to 13,000 square feet.
DESCRIPTION OF TOTAL PETROLEUM LEASES
LEASE TERM. The Total Petroleum Properties have 13 separate but identical leases dated as of May 15, 1991 (Total Petroleum Leases). The primary lease term for the Total Petroleum Properties is 20 years ending on May 31, 2011. Total Petroleum has the right to extend the leases for two 10 year renewal terms, but the renewal option can only be exercised on an all or none basis. The Total Petroleum Leases contain a cross default provision which provides that on a monetary default resulting in the termination of a lease, the Landlord has a right to terminate any or all of the other leases.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE TOTAL PETROLEUM LEASES. The combined annual rent for all 13 properties is $860,075 through May 14, 1996, increasing by 3% each May 15th throughout the term of the lease. The leases are net leases, which requires Total to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, and all utility charges.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Total Petroleum is required, at its expense, to maintain the Total Petroleum Properties in good repair and is responsible to keep each property in reasonably clean condition. The Tenant at its sole expense may make any non-structural alterations, additions, replacements or improvements to the property without the Landlord's consent. The lessee is required to obtain the Landlord's prior written consent for structural alterations, additions, replacements or improvements which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
INSURANCE. Total Petroleum is required to maintain insurance at its expense providing for fire with standard extended risk coverage to the extent of the full replacement cost. So long as the Tenant's net worth exceeds $100,000,000 the deductible may be that which is provided in Total Petroleum's master corporate insurance policy, and if its net worth falls below $100,000,000 then the deductible shall not exceed $250,000 without Landlord's consent.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION OF PROPERTY. If the premises are damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty there is to be no rent abatement and Total Petroleum is required to repair and restore the premises in a reasonable diligent manner. If, however, the premises are rendered untenantable Total Petroleum may terminate the lease in which event it shall pay to the Company an amount sufficient to restore the premises to the condition existing as of the date the lease was executed, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
If all or any part of any of the properties is taken by condemnation so as to render the remaining portion of the property unsuitable for lessee's business, then the rent due under the lease shall be equitably adjusted until such time as the Tenant provides Landlord with written notice that it is electing to terminate the lease. If however, the Tenant does not vacate the property within ninety days of such taking then it is conclusively presumed that such taking is not extensive enough to render the premises unsuitable for Total Petroleum business. In the event of a taking, damages awarded are payable as follows: (i) Total Petroleum is entitled to the portion of the award attributable to the value of its leasehold and (ii) Landlord is entitled to the value of its reversion. In allocating between the value of the leasehold and the reversion, the value of improvements and betterments made by the lessee is to be equitably divided between leasehold and reversion. Each party is entitled to file a claim in any condemnation proceeding.
OPTION TO PURCHASE. Total Petroleum has been granted an option to purchase all locations at fair market value, excluding the value of the improvements made by it. This option may be exercised during the last six months of the term of the lease. Fair market value is to be determined by an appraisal process.
RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL. Total Petroleum has been granted a right of first refusal to purchase a Total Petroleum Property from the Landlord for the same purchase price and on the same terms and conditions as a bonafide offer to purchase received by the Landlord from an unrelated party which is engaged in, or plans to engage in the business of selling petroleum products, which offer the Landlord intends to accept.
MORTGAGE
The Total Petroleum Properties are owned free and clear of mortgages.
* * * * * * * * * * *
ADDITIONAL 1995 ACQUISITIONS
In fiscal 1995 the Company acquired fee title to three additional net lease investments, described more particularly below.
KILLEEN, TEXAS PROPERTY
DESCRIPTION OF KILLEEN, TEXAS PROPERTY
The Killeen, Texas property is one of two front out-parcels of a newly developed shopping center anchored by an Albertson's supermarket, located at 900 West Central Texas Expressway, Killeen, Texas. The property is improved with a one story, free standing building having approximately 8,000 square feet of space and 39 parking spaces located on a parcel of land of approximately 1.106 acres. The building, a prototypical Hollywood Video Store, was built in 1995.
DESCRIPTION OF HOLLYWOOD VIDEO LEASE
LEASE TERM. The property is leased to Hollywood Entertainment Corporation d/b/a/ Hollywood Video pursuant to a "net lease" which has an initial term of approximately fifteen years ending June 30, 2010. The tenant has the right to extend the lease for two additional five year terms.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE LEASE. The annual basic rent payable under the lease is $141,200, increasing to $162,380 in July, 2000. Tenant is required to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, water and sewer charges and other governmental charges.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Tenant at its expense is required to maintain (and where necessary replace) the premises, including all structural systems, load bearing walls, floor slabs and HVAC systems and equipment. The Landlord warranted and guaranteed that the building was constructed in a first class manner for a period of 12 months from the commencement date of the lease and after the expiration of said 12 month period Landlord is to assign to the Tenant any and all warranties and guaranties of third parties held by the Landlord, except in the event such warranties and guaranties are not assignable, the Landlord is to enforce the warranties and guaranties for the benefit of the Tenant.
The Tenant is not to make any exterior or structural alterations to the premises without the prior written consent of the Landlord which is not to unreasonably withheld. Tenant is permitted to make interior non structural alterations, additions and improvements costing less than $50,000 without the Landlord's prior written consent.
INSURANCE. Landlord is to obtain general liability insurance with coverage of not less than $3,000,000, all risk property insurance covering fire and extended coverage for the replacement value thereof and rental interruption insurance covering a period not to exceed one year. The Tenant is to reimburse the Landlord for Landlord's annual costs for premiums for such insurance. The Tenant has the right to elect to carry some or all of such insurance upon ten days prior written notice to Landlord and if Tenant gives such notice, the Landlord is relieved of its obligations to obtain and maintain the insurance.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION OF PROPERTY. If the premises are damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty the Landlord is to repair, restore or rebuild as is necessary to substantially return the premises to the condition existing immediately prior to such damage or destruction and the lease remains in full force and effect. If however, any repair, restoration or reconstruction may not commence within 90 days from the date of the casualty and are not repaired, restored or reconstructed within eight months of the date of the casualty, the Tenant may terminate the lease on 30 days prior written notice to the Landlord. The Landlord is not required to expend funds in excess of the insurance proceeds for such repairing, restoring, and rebuilding.
If the premises or any portion thereof are taken by condemnation, the lease terminates as to the portion taken as of the date the condemning authority takes title or possession. If more than 5% of the floor area of the building, or more than 20% of the common area designated as parking is taken by condemnation Tenant at its option may terminate the lease. If the tenant does not terminate the lease,
the lease remains in full force and effect as to the portion of the premises remaining except that the rent shall be reduced in the proportion that the floor area of the premises so taken bears to the total floor area of the premises. Any condemnation award shall be the property of the Landlord, but Tenant is entitled to any award for loss or damage to Tenant's property and relocation expenses.
MORTGAGE
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by Bank One, Texas, N.A. in the original principal amount of $731,250. The loan bears interest at 9.1% per annum, is amortizing over a 25 year period and is due on August 14, 2002. At December 31, 1995 $729,311 was due and owing on this mortgage.
ROSENBERG, TEXAS PROPERTY
DESCRIPTION OF ROSENBERG, TEXAS PROPERTY
The Rosenberg, Texas property, constructed in 1995, is located on an out parcel of a recently developed free standing Super Kmart in Rosenberg, Texas (a suburb of Houston, Texas). There are other out parcels occupied by a Jack-in-the-Box, Payless Shoe Source, Peppermill Restaurant and Texaco/McDonalds. The property is improved with a free standing prototypical Hollywood Video store, having approximately 8,000 square feet of space and 44 parking spaces.
DESCRIPTION OF HOLLYWOOD VIDEO LEASE
The property is leased to Hollywood Entertainment Corp. d/b/a Hollywood Video pursuant to a "net lease" which has an initial term of approximately fifteen years ending January 31, 2010. The Tenant has the right to extend the lease for two additional five year terms.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE LEASE. The annual basic rent under the lease is $111,800, increasing to $128,750 in January 2000. The lease requires the Tenant to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, water and sewer charges and other governmental charges.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Tenant at its expense is required to maintain (and where necessary replace) the premises, including all structural systems, load bearing walls, floor slabs and HVAC systems and equipment. The Landlord warranted and guaranteed that the building was constructed in a first class manner for a period of 12 months from the commencement date of the lease and after the expiration of said 12 month period Landlord is to assign to the Tenant any and all warranties and guaranties of third parties held by the Landlord except in the event such warranties and guaranties are not assignable, the Landlord is to enforce the warranties and guaranties for the benefit of the Tenant.
The Tenant is not to make any exterior or structural alterations to the premises without the prior written consent of the Landlord which is not to unreasonably withheld. Tenant is permitted to make interior non structural alterations, additions and improvements costing less than $50,000 without the Landlord's prior written consent.
INSURANCE. Landlord is to obtain general liability insurance with coverage of not less than $3,000,000, all risk property insurance covering fire and extended coverage for the replacement value thereof and rental interruption insurance covering a period not to exceed one year and the Tenant is to reimburse the Landlord for Landlord's annual costs for premiums for such insurance. The Tenant has the right to elect to carry some or all of such insurance upon ten days prior written notice to Landlord and if Tenant gives such notice, the Landlord is relieved of its obligations to obtain and maintain the insurance.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION OF PROPERTY. If the premises are damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty the Landlord is to repair, restore or rebuild as is necessary to substantially return the premises to the condition existing immediately prior to such damage or destruction and the lease remains in full force and effect. If however, any repair, restoration or reconstruction may not commence within 90 days from the date of the casualty and are not repaired, restored or reconstructed
within eight months of the date of the casualty, the Tenant may terminate the lease on 30 days prior written notice to the Landlord. The Landlord is not required to expend funds in excess of the insurance proceeds for such repairing, restoring, rebuilding.
If the premises or any portion thereof are taken by condemnation, the lease terminates as to the parcel taken as of the date the condemning authority takes title or possession. If more than 5% of the floor area of the building, or more than 20% of the common area designated as parking is taken by condemnation, Tenant, at its option may terminate the lease. If the tenant does not terminate the lease, the lease remains in full force and effect as to the portion of the premises remaining except that the rent shall be reduced in the proportion that the floor area of the premises so taken bears to the total floor area of the premises. Any condemnation award shall be the property of the Landlord, but Tenant is entitled to any award for loss or damage to Tenant's property and relocation expenses.
MORTGAGE
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by Bank One, Texas, N.A. in the original principal amount of $692,100. The loan bears interest of 8.55% per annum, is amortizing over 25 years and is due on December 5, 2002. The entire original principal amount was outstanding on December 31, 1995.
CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA PROPERTY
DESCRIPTION OF CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA PROPERTY
The Cedar Rapids property is located at 4701 First Avenue, S.E., a major commercial thoroughfare in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The property, contains approximately 1.52 acres, is improved with a 15,400 square foot single story retail store completed in 1995, and has 77 parking spaces.
DESCRIPTION OF AUDIO KING LEASE
LEASE TERM. The property is leased to Audio King Corporation pursuant to a net lease which has an initial term of approximately twenty years expiring June 30, 2015. The Tenant has the right to extend the lease for four additional 5 year terms.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THE LEASE. The annual basic rent under the lease is $157,850, increasing to $180,950 in July 2000, $204,050 in July 2005 and $227,150 in July 2010. The lease requires Tenant to pay all real estate taxes, assessments and other government charges.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATION. The Tenant is required to keep the premises, including the foundation, exterior walls, roof and heating and ventilating and air conditioning systems and any equipment serving the premises in good order, condition and repair and in a clean and safe condition; provided however, during the last 5 years of the initial term and during any extension term the Landlord is responsible for replacement of the foundation, exterior walls, roof and HVAC systems.
The Tenant is not to make any alterations or additions to the premises in excess of $25,000 without first obtaining the Landlord's consent.
INSURANCE. The Tenant is required to maintain general liability insurance in the initial amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence and the Landlord is to maintain casualty insurance covering loss of or damage to the property in the full amount of its replacement value. With respect to the casualty insurance maintained by the Landlord, the Tenant is to pay to the Landlord, as additional rent, the premiums for such policy within 15 days of receiving the statement therefor. The casualty insurance provides protection against all risks including fire, vandalism, malicious mischief, special extended perils, sprinkler leakage, etc.
DAMAGE TO OR CONDEMNATION PROPERTY. If the premises or any portion of the building is damaged by fire or other casualty the Landlord is to promptly repair the damage if the repair, in Landlord's opinion, can be completed within 90 days. The Landlord does not have any obligation to repair in the event that the insurance proceeds it receives are insufficient to cover the expected cost of the repairs. If in Landlord's opinion the repairs cannot be completed within 90 days, the Landlord may elect to
repair the damage in which event the lease continues in full force and effect, but the rent is partially abated to the extent Tenant's use of the premises is impaired. If Landlord does not elect to make the repairs, the lease terminates as of the date of the casualty.
If the whole of the building is taken by condemnation the lease will terminate as of the date of taking. If less than the whole building is taken, the lease shall be unaffected by the taking, provided that the Tenant has the right to terminate the lease if 20% or more of the premises is taken and the remaining area of the premises is not reasonably sufficient for Tenant to continue to operate its business. In the event of a partial taking which does not result in a termination of the lease, the Landlord is to restore the remaining portion of the premises as nearly as practicable to its condition prior to the condemnation. All damages awarded for any taking and condemnation shall be the property of the Landlord except for value allocated to alterations and additions made by Tenant after the lease was entered into. Tenant is also entitled to a separate award for loss of business, depreciation, and removal of stock and fixtures.
MORTGAGE
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by Firstar Bank Cedar Rapids, N.A. in the original principal amount of $990,000. The loan bears interest at 8 1/2% per annum and matures December 21, 2000. The loan provides for amortization over 20 years. The entire principal balance was outstanding on December 31, 1995.
ITEM 3.