Item 2. - Properties
The Company, at December 31, 1996, owned fee title to thirty-seven properties and a "sandwich" lease position with respect to one property. All properties are "net leased" to unrelated third parties. The Company obtained title insurance with respect to all properties owned by it in amounts equal to their respective purchase prices, insuring that the Company holds fee simple title to each property owned in fee and the leasehold position to the one lease position the Company holds, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, except those approved by the Company and those which have been created since the Company's acquisition of the properties, none of which materially impairs the value of the properties.
The following sets forth information relating to the materially important properties (the book value of which amounts to 10% or more of the total assets of the Company) owned by the Company.
Madison Avenue Property
Description of Madison Avenue Property
The Madison Avenue Property, located on East 30th Street and Madison Avenue in New York, New York, is improved with two multi-family residential properties - - a twelve story elevator building and a seven story elevator building, containing an aggregate of 126 apartments and ground floor retail stores. The property is located in mid-Manhattan, in primarily a commercial area, with some residential and hotels. The two buildings are located on a 14,658 square foot plot of land, have frontage on both Madison Avenue and East 30th Street,and were constructed separately and subsequently joined. The properties were constructed in about 1910 and substantially renovated in approximately 1988.
Description of Madison Avenue Lease
Lease Term The Madison Avenue Property, owned in fee by the Company,is leased to an unaffiliated entity for a term expiring February 28, 2038. If Tenant exercises its right to convert the property to cooperative ownerships then effective with the assignment of the lease the lease can be extended for 150 years. To the Company's knowledge, the Tenant is not contemplating a cooperative conversion at the present time.
Amounts Payable Under the Madison Avenue Property Lease The basic annual rental is $550,000 increasing to $600,000 in 1999 and by $50,000 each five years thereafter. If the conversion option is exercised, the basic annual rent is fixed for ten years from the date of conversion at the basic annual rental then being paid, increasing by $75,000 each ten years thereafter. If the conversion option is exercised, the Company is to receive a conversion premium which the Company has agreed to divide 50-50 with BRT Realty Trust, provided the conversion takes place on or before June 14, 2004. The Company acquired this property from BRT Realty Trust, an affiliated entity in June 1994 (see Form 8-K of the Company dated June 27, 1994).
The lease is a net lease and requires Tenant to pay, in addition to basic annual rent, all real estate taxes and all utility and other charges applicable to the property during the term.
Maintenance and Modifications Tenant, at its expense, is required to make all structural and non-structural repairs and is required to maintain the property in good repair and condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
Tenant is permitted, under the lease, to make structural and non-structural alterations, improvements and additions provided (i) any such alteration, improvement or addition does not materially adversely affect the structural integrity or strength of the buildings or the value of the property, or any interest of Landlord and does not include structural demolition, and (ii) if the anticipated cost exceeds a specified amount (currently $150,000, increasing $50,000 each ten years commencing with 1999) Tenant is to give Landlord prior notice and furnish Landlord with such information as Landlord may reasonably request. In any event Tenant can't demolish any structural portions of the buildings without consent of Landlord. The lease specifies other Tenant obligations prior to Tenant commencing alterations, improvements or additions.
Insurance Tenant is required to maintain fire insurance, with extended coverage, in an amount equal to 100% of replacement value, exclusive of footings and foundations with the deductible not to exceed $25,000, increasing every five years by the increase in the consumer price index. Tenant is also required to maintain rent insurance, comprehensive general public liability insurance, elevator and boiler insurance, and such other insurance, in such amounts, as reasonably required by Landlord. In the opinion of the Company's management this property is adequately covered by insurance.
Damage to or Condemnation of Madison Avenue Property In the event of a casualty, Tenant at its expense, whether or not the insurance proceeds are sufficient,is required to repair the damage and restore, replace and rebuild the premises, at least to the extent of the value and as near as possible to the character prior to the casualty.
If there is a condemnation of all or substantially all the premises,Tenant may elect to terminate the lease, and in such event the lease shall terminate on the date the condemning authority takes title to the property. In the event of a condemnation of all or substantially all the property, the award is to be divided between Landlord and Tenant in the proportion each party's interest in the premises bears to the aggregate value of both party's interest in the property, as determined by arbitration, provided the Landlord is to receive as a priority payment an amount equal to the fixed annual rent then being paid under the lease multiplied by 10, with interest from the date of taking and then Tenant is to receive the greater of (i)the sum of all amounts paid by Tenant for capital improvements, not to exceed $3,000,000 and (ii) all unpaid principal and interest and other sums due on any leasehold mortgage.
If there is a partial taking Tenant,at its sole expense,is to repair and reconstruct the premises. Any award is to be applied to such repair and reconstruction, and if the award exceeds the cost of repair and reconstruction, the excess is divided between Landlord and Tenant as provided in the Lease.
Mortgage
Simultaneously with its purchase of the property in June,1994 the Company obtained a $4,250,000 non-recourse first mortgage loan from East New York Savings Bank. The mortgage bears interest at 8.75% per annum during the initial 5 year term. The Company has an option to renew the mortgage for an additional five year term upon payment of a 1% extension fee. The interest rate during the extension period will be the greater of 8.75% or 275 basis points above U.S. Treasuries as defined in the mortgage agreement. The mortgage is being amortized based on a 25 year amortization schedule. At December 31, 1996 there was a principal balance of $4,122,873 due on this mortgage. Assuming no payment is made on principal in advance of the maturity date, the principal balance due at maturity will be approximately $3,960,000. The Company has the option of prepaying this mortgage in whole or in part provided that it pays a prepayment premium of 3% if prepaid prior to June 14, 1997, decreasing by 1% each year thereafter and if the Company exercises its option during the five year extension period, the prepayment premium is 5% in the first year, decreasing by 1% each year thereafter during the extended term.
The Tenant has the right to mortgage its leasehold position under terms and conditions set forth in the lease. Any fee mortgage on the premises is superior to any leasehold mortgage.
Total Petroleum Properties
Description of Total Petroleum Properties
Although the Total Petroleum Properties consist of thirteen separate properties located in various towns and cities in the State of Michigan,they are considered as one property for the purpose of determining if they are "materially important" real properties. The Total Petroleum Properties are all service stations and include gasoline pumping islands, a service area and a retail building used as a convenience store. The Total Petroleum Properties are on parcels of land ranging from 45,000 square feet to 183,000 square feet and the buildings on the properties range from 6,000 square feet to 13,000 square feet.
Description of Total Petroleum Leases
Lease Term The Total Petroleum Properties have 13 separate but identical leases dated as of May 15,1991 (Total Petroleum Leases). The primary lease term for the Total Petroleum Properties is 20 years ending on May 31, 2011. Total Petroleum has the right to extend the leases for two 10 year renewal terms, but the renewal option can only be exercised on an all or none basis. The Total Petroleum Leases contain a cross default provision which provides that on a monetary default resulting in the termination of a lease, the Landlord has a right to terminate any or all of the other leases.
Amounts Payable under the Total Petroleum Leases The combined annual rent for all 13 properties is $885,878 through May 14,1997, increasing by 3% each May 15th throughout the term of the lease. The leases are net leases, which requires Total to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, and all utility charges.
Maintenance and Modifications Total Petroleum is required,at its expense, to maintain the Total Petroleum Properties in good repair and is responsible to keep each property in reasonably clean condition. The Tenant at its sole expense may make any non-structural alterations, additions, replacements or improvements to the property without the Landlord's consent. The lessee is required to obtain the Landlord's prior written consent for structural alterations, additions, replacements or improvements which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
Insurance Total Petroleum is required to maintain insurance at its expense providing for fire with standard extended risk coverage to the extent of the full replacement cost.So long as the Tenant's net worth exceeds $100,000,000 the deductible may be that which is provided in Total Petroleum's master corporate insurance policy, and if its net worth falls below $100,000,000 then the deductible shall not exceed $250,000 without Landlord's consent. In Management's opinion the Total Petroleum Properties are adequately covered by insurance.
Damage to or Condemnation of Property If any of the Total Petroleum Properties is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty there is to be no rent abatement and Total Petroleum is required to repair and restore the premises in a reasonable diligent manner. If, however, the premises are rendered untenantable,Total Petroleum may terminate the lease in which event it shall pay to the Company an amount sufficient to restore the premises to the condition existing as of the date the lease was executed, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
If all or any part of any of the properties is taken by condemnation so as to render the remaining portion of the property unsuitable for lessee's business, then the rent due under the lease shall be equitably adjusted until such time as the Tenant provides Landlord with written notice that it is electing to terminate the lease. If however, the Tenant does not vacate the property within ninety days of such taking then it is conclusively presumed that such taking is not extensive enough to render the premises unsuitable for Total Petroleum's business. In the event of a taking, damages awarded are payable as follows: (i) Total Petroleum is entitled to the portion of the award attributable to the value of its leasehold and (ii) Landlord is entitled to the value of its reversion. In allocating between the value of the leasehold and the reversion, the value of improvements and betterments made by the lessee is to be equitably divided between leasehold and reversion. Each party is entitled to file a claim in any condemnation proceeding.
Option to Purchase Total Petroleum has been granted an option to purchase all locations at fair market value, excluding the value of the improvements made by it. This option may be exercised during the last six months of the term of the lease. Fair market value is to be determined by an appraisal process.
Right of First Refusal Total Petroleum has been granted a right of first refusal to purchase a Total Petroleum Property from the Company for the same purchase price and on the same terms and conditions as a bonafide offer to purchase received by the Company from an unrelated party which is engaged in, or plans to engage in the business of selling petroleum products, which offer the Company intends to accept.
Mortgage
The Total Petroleum Properties are owned free and clear of mortgages.
Fort Myers, Florida Property
Description of Fort Myers, Florida Property
The Fort Myers property, acquired in November 1996, is located at 13751 South Tamiami Trail (US Highway 41 and Daniels Road), a developed commercial/ retail area in Lee County. The property, part of the Market Square Shopping Center, is approximately 6 miles south of the Fort Meyers downtown business district. The property is approximately .72 acres with parking rights to the entire Market Square Shopping Center. The property is improved with a 29,993 square foot, free standing single story retail store completed in 1996, leased to Barnes & Noble Super Stores, Inc. The superstore is a prototypical Barnes & Noble Super Store, selling at discount hard cover and paperback books of all types, computer software, CD's and tapes and containing a Starbucks Coffee shop.
Description of Barnes & Noble Lease
Lease Term The property is leased to Barnes & Noble Superstores, Inc. pursuant to a net lease which has an initial term of 20 years expiring November 2016. The Tenant has the right to extend the lease for 4 additional 5 year terms.
Amounts Payable under the Lease
The annual fixed rent under the lease is $467,000 for the first five years, $513,000 for years 6 through 10, $559,000 for years 11 through 15 and $605,000 for years 16 through 20. The lease requires the Tenant to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, water and sewer and utility charges and other governmental charges.
Maintenance and Modifications
The Company is not required to make any alterations, reconstructions, additions, improvements or repairs of any kind to the property. Tenant is required to maintain the property and make all repairs, structural and non- structural. The Tenant cannot make alterations to the building without the Company's consent, which is not to be unreasonably withheld, but Tenant can make exterior and interior non-structural alterations without Landlord's consent provided Tenant complies with all legal requirements.
Insurance
Tenant is required to carry at its expense all risk insurance covering the building and improvements to the extent of their full replacement value, boiler and machinery insurance, and liability insurance. In management's opinion, this property is adequately covered by insurance.
Damage to or Condemnation of Property
If the premises is damaged by fire or other casualty and the premises cannot be repaired and restored within eighteen months of the casualty or if the casualty occurs during the last three years of the term, or any renewal term, such that the cost of rebuilding or repairs exceeds 20% of the replacement cost, Tenant or Landlord may terminate the lease, but if Landlord exercises its right to terminate, Tenant can void such exercise by exercising any right it may have to extend. If the lease cannot be or is not terminated after a casualty then Tenant at its cost shall rebuild or repair the premises, and all insurance proceeds are to be applied to the cost of rebuilding or repair.
In the event of a condemnation of any part of the building or a substantial portion of the premises Tenant shall have the right, subject to the Company's right to substitute compatible parking and/or facilities (a) to terminate the lease as of the date of taking, or (b) continue the lease with an appropriate rent reduction. If Tenant does not or may not elect to terminate the lease, the Tenant shall restore the premises remaining after the taking and the Company shall make the condemnation proceeds, or as much thereof as is necessary for the reconstruction, available to Tenant. In the event of termination of the lease because of condemnation both Landlord and Tenant can seek to recover compensation and damage from the condemning authority for injury or loss sustained by them.
Mortgage The Fort Myers property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by Southtrust Bank of Alabama, National Association in the original principal amount of $3,250,000. The loan bears interest at 7.8% per annum and matures January 1, 2004. The loan provides for amortization over 25 years. There had not been any payments on the mortgage as of December 31, 1996 and assuming no payment is made on principal in advance of the maturity date, the principal balance due at maturity will be approximately $2,889,000. The Company has the right to prepay this mortgage but there shall be due at the time of prepayment a premium equal to the amount required to compensate the mortgagee for its loss of investment (a yield maintenance formula).
* * * * *
The following sets forth the information as to other important properties owned by the Company:
The Payless Properties
Description of Payless Properties
At December 31, 1996 the Company owned eleven properties leased to Payless ShoeSource Inc. These properties were originally leased to The May Department Stores ("May") and assigned by May to Payless ShoeSource, Inc. ("Payless"). May remains liable under those Payless leases which were extended. The initial term with respect to the leases referable to these 11 properties expired on December 31, 1996. Payless has extended the leases on four of the eleven properties, two were under contract of sale on December 31,1996 (one of which closed in January, 1997) two have been leased to other entities, and three were vacant (and are vacant as of the date of this Form 10-K). The Company is actively seeking a buyer or tenant for the three vacant properties.
The typical Payless Property is a freestanding one story building containing approximately 3,100 square feet of space on a parcel of land containing approximately 15,000 square feet and located on a major commercial thoroughfare.
Description of Payless Leases
Lease Term The Payless Properties have separate but substantially identical leases ("Payless Leases") which expire on December 31, 2001 with Payless having the right to extend each of their leases for three additional terms of five years each. The other two leases expire on December 31, 1999.
Amounts Payable for the Payless Properties The aggregate annual minimum rental for the Payless Properties(including the two properties leased to others) is $243,986 until December 31, 1999, and $201,309 from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2001.
These leases are "net leases" and the tenant is required to pay, all taxes, assessments, levies, fees, water and sewer rents, charges, licenses, permit fees and all governmental charges with respect to these properties, and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of each of the properties.
Maintenance Each tenant is required, at its expense to maintain the properties, structural or otherwise, in a neat, clean and orderly condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
Mortgage
The Company owns these properties on a free and clear basis.
Greenwood Village, Colorado Property
Description of Greenwood Village, Colorado Property
The Greenwood Village, Colorado Property, acquired in April, 1996, is 3.2 acres with 140 parking spaces. It is located at 9000 East Peakview Avenue, one block north of Arapaho Road (a major shopping corridor), approximately 10 miles south of downtown Denver. The property is improved with a 45,000 square foot single story retail sporting goods store leased to Gart Bros. Sporting Goods Company. The building was completed in November 1995.
Description of Gart Brothers' Lease
Lease Term The property is leased to Gart Bros. Sporting Goods Company pursuant to a "net lease" which has an initial term of 20 years ending January 31, 2016. The tenant has the right to extend the lease for three additional five year terms.
Amounts Payable under the Lease The annual basic rent payable under the lease is $423,000 per annum increasing to $450,000 in November 2005. Tenant is required to pay all real estate taxes, assessment, water, sewer and other governmental charges and common area maintenance. Commencing in November 2000 in addition to annual basic rent the Tenant is required to pay percentage rent equal to 2 1/2% of gross sales in excess of a specified minimum.
Maintenance
Landlord is responsible to maintain the foundation, exterior walls (excluding doors, windows and store fronts) and roof. Tenant is required at its expense to make all other repairs and replacements and to keep the demised premises in good, clean condition.
Mortgage
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by USA Life Insurance Company, Inc. in the original principal amount of $2,725,000. The loan bears interest at 8.75% is amortizing over a 25 year period and is due on March 31, 2006. At December 31, 1996 $2,706,872 was due and owing on this mortgage.
Hauppauge, New York Property
Description of Hauppauge, New York Property
The Hauppauge, New York Property, acquired in July, 1996, is located at 415-425 Rabro Drive in Hauppauge, Long Island, New York. The property, an irregularly shaped plot comprising 6.031 acres, is improved with a 65,120 square foot, one story, industrial flex building of which 35% is comprised of finished office space. The property was built in 1982 and contains 245 parking spaces.
Description of Robotic Vision Systems Lease
Lease Term The property is leased to Robotic Vision Systems, Inc. pursuant to a net lease which, as amended and extended, has a term expiring March 31, 2001.
Amounts Payable under the Lease The annual basic rent payable under the lease is $553,520 increasing to $586,080 on April 1, 1998. Tenant is required to pay all real estate taxes,utility charges and insurance premiums. The Tenant has the right, effective September 1,1997 (on four months prior notice) to "put" back to the Landlord 15,370 square feet and if the tenant exercises that right the basic rent reduces to $422,875 per annum through March 31, 1998, increasing to $447,750 per annum at April 1, 1998, and Tenant's proportionate share of real estate taxes and other expenses will reduce proportionately.
Maintenance and Modifications
Tenant is required to keep the demised premises in a clean and well kept condition and is responsible for exterior repairs and maintenance.
Mortgage
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by North Fork Bank in the original principal amount of $2,000,000. The loan bears interest at 9.35% per annum, is amortizing over 20 years and is due on October 1, 2000. At December 31, 1996 $1,994,250 was due and owing on this mortgage.
General
This property is owned by Elpans, LLC, a limited liability company in which the Company owns a 90% interest. After pari passu repayment of capital and a pari passu 12% return, the Company is entitled to an additional 3% return. Thereafter, the Company is entitled to 66.67% of all cash distributions.
Clayton County (Atlanta), Georgia Property
Description of Clayton County (Atlanta), Georgia Property
The Clayton County, Georgia Property is located at 1987 Mount Zion Road, approximately 13 miles south of downtown Atlanta. The property, which is 5.5 acres, is improved with a 50,400 square foot single story building completed in 1994, containing 233 parking spaces. The property is leased to The Sports Authority Inc. for use as a retail sporting goods super store and shares an entrance with a Publix Supermarket.
Description of Sports Authority Lease
The property is leased to The Sports Authority, Inc. pursuant to a net lease which has an initial term of 20 years expiring October 28, 2014. The Tenant has a right to extend the lease for 4 additional 5 year terms.
Amounts Payable under the Lease
The annual basic rent under the lease is $390,600, increasing to $441,000 in November 1999 and increasing each five years thereafter. The lease requires the Tenant to pay all real estate taxes,assessments, water and sewer charges and other governmental charges. Tenant is required to pay Landlord percentage rent of 1 1/4% of the amount by which gross sales exceeds a specified breakpoint.
Maintenance
Landlord is required to maintain and repair the roof,exterior walls, floor slabs and structural parts of the demised premises. Tenant is obligated to make all repairs to the demised premises, pylon signs and common areas which Landlord is not obligated to maintain under the Lease.
Mortgage
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by MetLife Capital Corporation in the original principal amount of $2,400,000. The loan bears interest at the rate 8.45% per annum, is amortizing over 25 years and is due on September 1, 2006. On December 31, 1996 $2,392,916 was due and owing on the mortgage.
Lewisville (Dallas), Texas
Description of Lewisville (Dallas), Texas Property
The Lewisville, Texas property acquired in October, 1996 is located at 490 Oak Bend Drive (the service road of Interstate 35-E) in Lewisville, Texas. The property is located approximately 7 miles north of the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport and approximately 13 miles from the Dallas city limits. The property shares an entrance with the Ridge Village Shopping Center,which includes among others, Old Navy, Circuit City, Comp USA, Marshalls and Linens N' Things. The property contains approximately 1.98 acres, is improved with a 21,043 square foot (16,243 square feet on ground level and an additional 4,800 square feet of mezzanine) single story retail store completed in 1996 and has 116 parking spaces.
Description of Just For Feet, Inc. Lease
Lease Term The property is leased to Just For Feet, Inc. pursuant to a net lease which has an initial term of approximately 20 years expiring October 31, 2016. The Tenant has the right to extend the lease for 2 additional five year terms.
Amounts Payable under the Lease
The annual basic rent under the lease is $355,560, increasing in November 2001 to $391,131 per annum and increasing each five years thereafter. The lease requires the tenant to pay all real estate taxes, assessments, water and sewer and other governmental charges.
Maintenance
Tenant is to maintain the premises in good repair and appearance and is to make all structural and non-structural repairs. Landlord has given to Tenant the right to assert claims against any contractor or sub-contractors if Tenant becomes aware of any defects in the construction of the Premises.
Mortgage
The property is encumbered by a first mortgage held by Security Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York in the original principal amount of $1,600,000. The loan, which closed on January 10, 1997, bears interest at 8 3/4% per annum and matures on January 1, 2017. On January 1, 2007 there is an interest rate adjustment to 1 3/4% over ten year treasuries. The loan will amortize over 20 years.
Item 3.