Item 2 - Properties
Executive and Administrative Offices
We lease approximately 8,000 square feet of office space in Commerce, California to serve as our executive headquarters. During 2005, we purchased a 9,000 square foot office building in Melbourne, Australia, to serve as the headquarters for our Australia and New Zealand operations. We occupy approximately 2,000 square feet of our Village East leasehold property for administrative purposes.
Entertainment Properties
Leasehold Interests
As of December 31, 2007, we lease approximately 1.6 million square feet of completed cinema space in the United States, Australia, and New Zealand as follows:
On February 22, 2008, we acquired Consolidated Cinemas, comprising approximately 727,000 square feet of cinema improvements. This has increased our worldwide aggregate square footage of property under lease to approximately 2.3 million square feet and our aggregate square footage of property under lease in the United States of 1.1 million square feet.
Fee Interests
In Australia, we owned as of December 31, 2008 approximately 3.2 million square feet of land at eight locations plus one strata title estate consisting of 22,000 square feet. Most of this land is located in the greater metropolitan areas of Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth, and Sydney, including the 50.6-acre Burwood site in suburban Melbourne.
In New Zealand, we own a 190,000 square foot site, which includes an existing 245,000 square foot, nine level parking structure in the heart of Wellington, the capital of New Zealand. All but 38,000 square feet of the Wellington site has been developed as an ETRC which incorporates the existing parking garage. The remaining land is currently leased and is slated for development as phase two of our Wellington ETRC. We own the fee interests underlying three additional cinemas in New Zealand, which properties include approximately 12,000 square feet of ancillary retail space. In 2007, we acquired through our Landplan subsidiary an approximately 64-acre parcel of land in the transportation corridor between the Auckland airport and the Auckland central business district. That land is currently zoned and used exclusively for agricultural purposes, and we are working to rezone the property for commercial/industrial use. Also through Landplan, we acquired a 1.0-acre property on Lake Taupo, a popular recreational destination. At the time we acquired our Lake Taupo property, it was improved as a motel. We are currently in the process of redeveloping that property into condominiums.
Since the close of 2007, we have acquired or entered into agreements to acquire approximately 50,000 square foot of property in Taringa, Australia, comprising four contiguous properties, which we intend to develop. The aggregate purchase price of these properties is $11.3 million (AUS$12.9 million), of which $1.7 million (AUS$2.0 million) relates to the three properties that have been acquired and $9.6 million (AUS$10.9 million) relates to the one property that is still under contract which is subject to certain rezoning conditions.
In the United States, we owned as of December 31, 2007, on a consolidated basis, approximately 121,000 square feet of improved real estate comprised of four live theater buildings which include approximately 58,000 square feet of leasable space, the fee interest in our Cinemas 1, 2 & 3 in Manhattan (held through a limited liability company in which we have a 75% managing member interest), and a residential condominium unit in Los Angeles, used as executive office and residential space by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Live Theaters (Liberty Theaters)
Included among our real estate holdings are four “Off Broadway” style live theaters, operated through our Liberty Theaters subsidiary. We lease theater auditoriums to the producers of “Off Broadway” theatrical productions and provide various box office and concession services. The terms of our leases are, naturally, principally dependent upon the commercial success of our tenants. STOMP has been playing at our Orpheum Theatre for many years. While we attempt to choose productions that we believe will be successful, we have no control over the production itself. At the current time, we have three single auditorium theaters in Manhattan:
·
the Minetta Lane (399 seats);
·
the Orpheum (364 seats); and
·
the Union Square (499 seats).
We also own a four auditorium theater complex, the Royal George in Chicago (main stage 452 seats, cabaret 199 seats, great room 100 seats and gallery 60 seats). We own the fee interest in each of these theaters. Two of the properties, the Union Square and the Royal George, have ancillary retail and office space.
We are basically in the business of leasing theatre space, and accordingly we do not typically invest in plays. However, we may from time to time participate as a minority investor in order to facilitate the production of a play at one of our facilities, and do from time to time rent space on a basis that allows us to share in a productions revenues or profits. Revenues, expenses, and profits are reported as apart of the real estate segment of our business.
Joint Venture Interests
We also hold real estate through several unincorporated joint ventures, two 75% owned subsidiaries, and one majority-owned subsidiary, as described below:
·
in Australia, we own a 66% unincorporated joint venture interest in a leased 5-screen multiplex cinema in Melbourne, a 75% interest in a subsidiary company that leases two cinemas with eleven screens in two Australian country towns, and a 33% unincorporated joint venture interest in a 16-screen leasehold cinema in a suburb of Brisbane.
·
in New Zealand, we own a 50% unincorporated joint venture interest in an eight-screen mainstream cinema in a suburb of Auckland and we own a 50% unincorporated joint venture interest in five cinemas with 22 screens in the New Zealand cities of Auckland, Christchurch, Wellington, Dunedin, and Hamilton.
·
in the United States, we own a 50% membership interest in Angelika Film Center, LLC, which holds the lease to the approximately 17,000 square foot Angelika Film Center & Café in the Soho district of Manhattan. We also hold the management rights with respect to this asset. We also own a 75% managing member interest in the limited liability company that owns our Cinemas 1, 2 & 3 property.
Real Estate Development
We are engaged through Reading Australia and Reading New Zealand in real estate development. We have to date developed three Entertainment-Themed Retail Center Developments (so-called ETRCs) each of which consist of a multiplex cinema, complementary restaurant and retail facilities, and convenient parking on land that we own or control. These centers are located in Perth and Auburn (a suburb of Sydney) in Australia and Wellington in New Zealand. We have completed the retail portions of a fourth ETRC (located in a suburb of Brisbane in Australia) and have completed the entitlement process for the construction of the cinema component, which we are in the process of evaluating.
In addition, we are pursuing the development of four additional sites in Australia and three sites in New Zealand. The largest of these are our projects at Burwood and Moonee Ponds, both located in the area of Melbourne, Victoria, and our projects at Wellington and Manukau (a suburb of Auckland) in New Zealand.
Australia
Auburn, New South Wales
We own 109,000 square foot ETRC in Auburn anchored by a 10 screen, 57,000 square foot cinema commonly known as “Red Yard.” Adjacent to this property, we own approximately 93,000 square feet of the site that is currently unimproved, and is intended to provide expansion space for phase II of our Red Yard project. The centre also includes an 871 space subterranean parking garage. The Auburn City Council, in coordination with other local governments, is currently reviewing the land use parameters for the areas adjacent to Parramatta Road in which our property is located. Parramatta Road, which runs adjacent to Homebush Bay, the site of the 2000 Olympic Games, is one of the busiest arterial roadways in the greater Sydney area, and is considered by many to be the “gateway” to Sydney. Consequently, there is significant community interest in rezoning the uses along this road. As a major landowner in this area, we intend to be actively involved in this process and are hopeful that this rezoning process will materially enhance the value of our remaining unimproved parcel. We have deferred further work on phase II until we get a better idea of the opportunities that may be opened by this rezoning process. This unimproved parcel is currently carried on our books at $2.4 million (AUS$2.7 million). We are currently considering whether to sell this property, and have to date received a number of offers which we are actively considering.
Burwood, Victoria
The biggest real estate project in our pipeline is the development of our 50.6-acre Burwood Project, a suburban area within the Melbourne metropolitan area. In December 1995, we acquired the site initially as a potential ETRC location. In late 2003, that site was designated as a “major activity centre” by the Victorian State Government and in February 2006 was rezoned to permit a broad range of entertainment, retail, commercial and residential uses. On February 20, 2006, the Victoria State Government approved a rezoning of that parcel from an industrial classification to a mixed-use classification allowing a broad range of entertainment, retail, commercial and residential uses. We are continuing to work to remediate environmental issues at the site and to refine that zoning, so as to be able to achieve commercial levels of density on the site.
We contemplate developing the project in a series of phases, with final completion sometime in 2015. While the land use issues are now resolved, individual development plans will need to be prepared and approved for each of the phases, dealing with issues such as project design and traffic management. Ultimately, we estimate that the total project will require development funding of approximately $500.0 million. We currently carry this property on our books at $42.0 million (AUS$47.8 million).
·
the site is the largest undeveloped parcel of land in the Burwood Heights “major activity centre” and the largest undeveloped parcel of land in any “major activity centre” in Victoria. Approximately 430,000 people live within five miles of the site, which is well served by both public transit and surface streets. We estimate that approximately 70,000 people pass by the site each day.
·
we anticipate that the project will be built in phases, over a significant period of years, and will not likely be completed before sometime in 2015. The initial phase, however, will likely be an ETRC, as this is the area of development and construction with which we are most familiar.
·
we do not currently have any funding in place for the development, and are paying for current master planning activities out of cash flow and working capital. The permitted uses outlined in the rezoning for the site are being defined through a Development Plan Overlay review by local government. We currently estimate that complete build-out of the site will require funding in the range of $500.0 million (AUS$570.0 million).
·
our original cost basis in the site is approximately $4.2 million (AUS$5.3 million). The property was originally acquired in 1996, but was revalued upward in connection with our Consolidation in 2001, which was treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. This revaluation was made prior to the designation of the site as a “major activity center” in 2004. The current book value of this property under construction is $42.0 million (AUS$47.8 million).
·
We are currently working to refine our entitlements for the site, with the intention of increasing densities to commercially reasonable levels.
·
as the property was used by its prior owner as a brickworks, it has been necessary to remove or encapsulate the contaminated soil that resulted from those operations from the site before it can be used for mixed-use
retail, entertainment, commercial and residential purposes. During 2007, we conducted further testing on the site and developed a plan to address these environmental concerns. Substantially all of the contaminated soil slated for removal has now been removed. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that the total site preparation costs associated with the removal of this contaminated soil will be $7.9 million (AUS$9.0 million) and accordingly are not, in our view, material to the overall projected development costs for the project.
Indooroopilly, Brisbane
In September 2006, we acquired a land area of 11,000 square feet, and a two-story 3,000 square foot building. We paid US$1.8 million (AUS$2.3 million) for the land. The site is zoned for commercial purposes. We have obtained approval to develop the property to be a 28,000 square foot grade A commercial office building comprising six floors of office space and two basement levels of parking with 33 parking spaces. We expect to spend US$8 million (AUS$9.4 million) in development costs. We plan to complete the project in December 2008.
Moonee Ponds, Victoria
We are also in the planning stages of the development for our 3.3-acre Moonee Ponds site. This property is within the Moonee Ponds designated “Principal Activity Area,” allowing high-density development. Accordingly, our plans for that property will be necessarily influenced by the manner in which adjacent properties are developed within the “Principal Activity Area.” We are currently in the planning phase for a multi-use development. This site is located within the Moonee Ponds “Principal Activity Area” as designated by the Victorian State Government. The site represents an accumulation of three parcels, the last of which was acquired in 2006. We acquired 2.9 acres of the property in April 1997, for a purchase price of $4.9 million (AUS$6.4 million). The remaining 0.4 acres was acquired in September 2006 for a purchase price of $2.5 million (AUS$3.3 million). We intend to work towards the finalization of a plan for the development of this site during 2008.
Newmarket, Queensland
On November 28, 2005, we opened some of the retail elements of our Newmarket ETRC, a 100,000 square foot retail facility situated on an approximately 177,000 square foot parcel in Newmarket, a suburban of Brisbane, the remainder of the retail areas being rented out during the first half of 2006. Plans for a 6-screen cinema as part of the project have been approved by applicable governmental authorities, and it is anticipated that construction of this entertainment component will commence later this year.
New Zealand
Lake Taupo, New Zealand
In 2007, through Landplan Property Partners, we acquired a 1.0-acre property on Lake Taupo, a popular recreational destination, for approximately $4.9 million (NZ$6.9 million).. At the time we acquired our Lake Taupo property, it was improved as a motel. We are currently in the process of redeveloping that property into condominiums.
Manukau, New Zealand
This is an approximately 64-acre site located in the transit corridor between Auckland Airport and the Auckland central business district. We acquired the property in July 2007 for $9.3 million (NZ$12.1 million). The property is currently zoned for agricultural uses only and used for grazing. We intend to develop a master land use plan for the property and to work to effect a zoning change permitting a more intense use for the land. We believe that the property can be rezoned and developed for a mixture of commercial/industrial uses.
Wellington, New Zealand
We are currently the owner operator of an approximately 160,000 square foot ETRC in Wellington, New Zealand, known as Courtenay Central. The existing ETRC consists of a 10 screen cinema and approximately 38,000 square feet of retail space. The property also includes a separate nine level parking structure, with approximately
1,086 parking spaces. During 2006, approximately 3.5 million people went through the center. We are currently reviewing our options for the second phase of our Wellington ETRC. While we were successful in obtaining regulatory approval during 2006 for an approximately 162,000 square foot expansion of our existing centre, the timing of the development of that space will ultimately depend upon the retail market in Wellington, which has not been strong in recent periods. Accordingly, our plans for that site are currently in a holding pattern, while we wait for demand for retail space to improve and consider other complementary entertainment center uses for the property. The 38,000 square foot pad intended to support this second phase is currently carried on our books at $2.9 million (NZ$3.7 million), and is being currently rented on a month-to-month basis as a car sales yard. The retail market has significantly softened in Wellington and this has delayed our ability to secure suitable anchor tenants for the development. Accordingly, phase II is currently in a holding pattern as we wait for the retail market to improve and consider alternative uses for the property.
Real Estate Holdings
Our current real estate holdings are described in detail in Item 2, Properties, below. At December 31, 2007, we owned fee interests in approximately 920,000 square feet of income producing properties (including certain properties principally occupied by our cinemas). In the case of properties leased to our cinema operations, these number include an internal allocation of “rent” for such facilities.
1 A number of our properties include entertainment components rented to one or more of our subsidiaries. The rental area and percentage leased numbers are net of such entertainment components as is the book value. Book value and rental information are as of December 31, 2007.
2 This property is owned by a limited liability company in which we hold a 75% managing interest. The remaining 25% is owned by Sutton Hill Investments, LLC, a company owned in equal parts by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. James J. Cotter, and Michael Forman, a major shareholder in our Company.
3 The rental components of this project have been opened for business. The cinema component is, however, still in the design phase and not anticipated to open until some time in 2009.
In addition, in certain cases we have long-term leases which we view more akin to real estate investments than cinema leases As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 179,000 square foot of space subject to such long-term leases.
1 A number of our properties include entertainment components rented to one or more of our subsidiaries. The rental area and percentage leased numbers are net of such entertainment components. Book value, however, includes the entire investment in the leased property, including any cinema fit-out. Rental and book value information is as of December 31, 2006.
Other Property Interests and Investments
Domestic
Minority Investments in Real Estate Companies
Place 57, Manhattan
We own a 25% membership interest in the limited liability company that has developed the site of our former Sutton Cinema on 57th Street just east of 3rd Avenue in Manhattan, as a 143,000 square foot residential condominium tower, with the ground floor retail unit and the resident manager’s apartment. The project is essentially sold out, as all of the residential units have been conveyed and only the ground floor commercial unit is still available for sale. We are currently looking for a tenant for the commercial space, which faces on to 57th Street. At December 31, 2007, all debt on the project had been repaid, and we had received distributions totaling $9.8 million from this project, on an investment of $3.0 million made in 2004.
Malulani Investments, Limited
We own an 18.4% equity interest in Malulani Investments, Limited (“MIL”) a closely held private company organized under the laws of the State of Hawaii. The assets of MIL consist principally of commercial properties in Hawaii and California. MIL’s assets include the Guenoc Winery and approximately 22,000 acres of contiguous property located in Northern California. Approximately 400 acres of the property in California consists of vineyards, while the remainder is used for agricultural purposes. The property is currently subdivided into approximately 60 separate legal parcels. This land and commercial real estate holdings are encumbered by debt. To date, our requests to management for information about MIL, including consolidated financial information, have not been honored. We have brought litigation against MIL and certain of its directors in an effort to improve our access to information, including consolidated financial information. While we believe that we should prevail in our efforts in this regard, as in all litigation matters, no assurances can be given.
In connection with this investment we have entered into a shareholders agreement with Magoon Acquisition and Development, LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the state of California (“Magoon LLC”). Magoon LLC owns an approximately 12% equity interest in MIL and a 30% interest in The Malulani Group, Limited, a closely held private Hawaiian corporation (“TMG”), and the owner of 70% equity interest in MIL. That shareholders agreement grants to us voting control over the MIL and TMG shares held by Magoon, LLC, and provides for various rights of first refusal and cost sharing. In addition, the shareholders agreement grants to us the right to require Magoon LLC to contribute its MIL and TMG shares into a new limited liability company, which would also own our MIL shares, of which we would be the sole managing member. As the sole managing member, we would be entitled to receive 20% of any distributions as a management fee, after return of capital to the members. MIL and TMG both have cumulative voting, and together with Magoon LLC, we have elected James J. Cotter to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of MIL.
Non-operating Properties
We own the fee interest in 25 parcels comprising 195 acres in Pennsylvania and Delaware. These acres consist primarily of vacant land. We believe the value of these properties to be immaterial to our asset base, and while they are available for sale, we are not actively involved in the marketing of such properties. With the exception of certain properties located in Philadelphia (including the raised railroad bed leading to the old Reading Railroad Station), the properties are principally located in rural areas of Pennsylvania and Delaware.
Additionally, we own a condominium in the Los Angeles, California area which is used for offsite corporate meetings and by our Chief Executive Officer when he is in town.
Australia
Melbourne Office Building
On September 29, 2005, we purchased an office building in Melbourne, Australia for $2.0 million (AUS$2.6 million) to serve as the headquarters for our Australia and New Zealand operations. We fully financed this property by drawing on our Australian Credit Facility.
Item 3