ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Tables presenting mine, mill and leach production data for each of the properties described in this Item 2 are set forth on pages 52 to 53 in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.
Nevada
Production
Our Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of Elko on the geological feature known as the Carlin Trend which we discovered in 1961, and operations in the Winnemucca Region which were acquired in the 1997 merger with Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation. The Carlin Trend is the largest gold district discovered in North America in the last 50 years. The Winnemucca region includes (i) the Twin Creeks mine located near Winnemucca, (ii) the Lone Tree Complex located near Battle Mountain and (iii) a 50% interest in The Rosebud Mining Company, L.L.C. located west of Winnemucca. Production began in 1965 at Carlin, in 1990 at Twin Creeks, in 1991 at Lone Tree and in 1997 at Rosebud.
Gold production in Nevada totaled 2,498,700 equity ounces in 1999 at a total cash cost of $211 per ounce and 2,769,600 equity ounces in 1998 at a cash cost of $209 per ounce.
In 1999, ore was mined from nine open-pit deposits and four underground mines. The Deep Post open pit deposit at Carlin is mined by Barrick Goldstrike Mines Inc. under a joint mining agreement. The parties share the cost of mining the ore body in proportion to their interests in the contained gold. Some production initially scheduled for 1998 at Deep Post was deferred due to a pit wall failure that occurred in mid-1997. During 1999, mining resumed in accordance with a revised mine plan. The 50% owned Rosebud underground mine is operated by Hecla Mining Company. All ore mined from Rosebud is transported to Twin Creeks for processing.
Processing Facilities
Our operations in Nevada have a number of different ore types and processing techniques. A computerized optimization model is used to determine the best mix of ore types for each processing facility in order to obtain the maximum ounces of gold at the lowest cost from the ores. Gold is extracted from ores that are naturally oxidized by either heap leaching or milling, generally depending on the amount of gold (grade) contained in the ore. Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized, known as refractory or sulfide ores, require more complex processing techniques that are more costly than processing oxide ore. Approximately 71% of Nevada's 1999 year-end proven and probable gold reserves were refractory and the balance were oxide. Nevada's production has increasingly come from higher-cost refractory ores from both deep open pits and underground mines as lower-cost, near-surface oxide ores have been depleted. Refractory ore treatment facilities are expected to generate approximately 58% of Nevada's gold production in 2000, compared with 54% in 1999 and 42% in 1998.
Higher-grade oxide ores are processed at three oxide mills at Carlin, two at Twin Creeks and one at Lone Tree. The ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit where gold is separated. Lower-grade oxide ores are processed using heap leaching where ore is crushed and stacked on impermeable pads. A weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heaps and dissolves the gold. The gold-bearing solution is collected and pumped to mill facilities to remove the gold by electrowinning or zinc precipitation.
Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks or Lone Tree. The roaster heats finely ground ore to a high temperature and burns off the carbon and sulfide minerals that encase the gold. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to remove sulfide minerals from the ore. Lower-grade sulfide ores are processed through a flotation plant at Lone Tree or by bio-milling at Carlin. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold- containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the cell where they can be separated from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and form a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology referred to as bio-oxidation. Bio-oxidation involves inoculation of ore with naturally occurring bacteria that oxidize the sulfides encasing the gold. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
Gold-bearing activated carbon from Carlin's milling and leaching facilities is processed on site at a central carbon processing plant and adjacent smelting facilities. Separate carbon processing facilities are located in the North and South Areas at Twin Creeks with one smelter in the North Area. Lone Tree has two carbon processing facilities. Material from the Lone Tree carbon processing facilities is smelted at Carlin.
Other Facilities
Analytical laboratories, maintenance facilities and administration offices are located at Carlin, Twin Creeks and the Lone Tree Complex. We also have an advanced metallurgical research laboratory in Denver, Colorado.
Electrical power and natural gas for Newmont's Nevada operations are provided by public utilities. Oxygen for the roaster is provided on a contract basis from an oxygen plant constructed by the supplier on land leased from Newmont which is currently the sole customer of the oxygen produced. Oxygen plants used in conjunction with the autoclaves at Twin Creeks and Lone Tree are owned by Newmont and are operated and maintained by a third party.
Mineral Rights
We own, or control through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Carlin and Winnemucca Region mining operations areas other than the Rosebud mine. The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry Mine at Carlin, we own a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and lease the remaining 90% on which we pay a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral
production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly owned or controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, we are obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 3% to 5% of production.
In February 1999, we signed an agreement with Barrick Goldstrike Mines, Inc. to exchange approximately two million ounces of reserves and various land rights on the north Carlin Trend that consolidated our respective land positions in the area. The exchange was completed in May 1999. See "Results of Operations--North American Operations" in Management's Discussion and Analysis in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 20.
California
We have one mine in California, Mesquite, that was acquired in the 1997 merger with Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation. It is located in Imperial County in southern California and was acquired by Santa Fe in 1993. It has been producing since 1986. Mining at Mesquite is conducted in two open pits and ore is processed by run-of-mine heap-leaching. Gold production totaled 164,600 ounces in 1999 and 154,000 ounces in 1998. Total cash costs per ounce were $167 and $176 for 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Gold-bearing activated carbon from leaching facilities is processed at an on-site carbon processing plant and smelter. Maintenance facilities and administration offices are also located at Mesquite. Electric power is supplied by a local utility.
Mesquite is in its last year of full production and operations will transition to shutdown and reclamation after 2000. Low grade mineralization near existing pits could potentially extend the mine life with a substantial increase in gold prices.
We own, or control through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present mining areas of the Mesquite deposits. The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits.
Peru
Introduction
We produce gold in Peru through Minera Yanacocha S.R.L., whose properties are located approximately 375 miles north of Lima and 28 miles north of the city of Cajamarca. In 1986, we discovered the Yanacocha gold deposit which has since become the largest gold district in South America. Minera Yanacocha began production in 1993. Prior to 1997, we owned a 38% equity interest in Minera Yanacocha. In 1997, we consolidated Minera Yanacocha in our financial statements following the acquisition of an additional 13.35% interest. The remaining interest is held by Compania de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%). A description of such acquisition is set forth in Note 19 to the financial statements in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 44. We operate Minera Yanacocha.
Minera Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position, which includes multiple deposits as well as other prospects. Such mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to a related entity. The assignments have a term of 20 years, beginning in the early 1990s, renewable at the option of Minera Yanacocha for another 20 years.
Production
Four open-pit mines and three leach pads are in operation at Minera Yanacocha. In late 1999, Minera Yanacocha terminated its contract mining agreement and, as a result, anticipates improved productivity and efficiency by conducting mine operations with its own employees. In 1999, production was 1,655,800 ounces of gold (850,300 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $103 per ounce as compared to 1998 production of 1,335,800 ounces of gold (685,900 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $95 per ounce.
The ore at Minera Yanacocha is not crushed, but transported directly to impermeable leach pads where it is treated with a weak cyanide solution that dissolves the gold. The gold bearing leach solution is collected and pumped through one of two Merrill-Crowe plants to remove the gold from the solution as a zinc-gold precipitate. After the gold is processed from the precipitate and smelted into dore, it is transported from the processing plant by a contractor and refined in Switzerland. Minera Yanacocha's operations are accessible by road. Power for the project is provided pursuant to a four year renewable contractual agreement with a local power company. Backup power is provided by diesel generators owned by Minera Yanacocha.
Uzbekistan
Introduction
Newmont has a 50% interest in Zarafshan-Newmont, a joint venture with the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources ("State Committee") and Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine ("Navoi"), each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide ore from the nearby government-owned Muruntau mine. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars. Newmont provides technical and managerial support to Zarafshan-Newmont. The State Committee and Navoi guaranteed to furnish Zarafshan-Newmont with 242 million tons of ore with an average grade of 0.036 ounces of gold per ton, containing approximately 8.6 million ounces of gold. At December 31, 1999, approximately 185 million tons of stockpiled ore and ore in process remained at an average grade of 0.033 ounces of gold per ton, containing approximately six million ounces of gold.
Production
In 1999, total production was 543,000 ounces of gold (271,500 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $161 per ounce. In 1998, total production was 374,600 ounces of gold (187,300 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $207 per ounce.
Ore from the existing stockpiles is crushed in four stages. The crushed material is transported via conveyor to impermeable leach pads where the ore is treated with a weak cyanide solution that penetrates the ore, dissolving the gold. The pregnant leach solution is collected and pumped through a Merrill-Crowe plant to remove the gold from the solution as a zinc-gold precipitate. After the gold is processed from the precipitate and smelted into dore bars it is refined at the nearby Muruntau gold refinery and then exported. The project has access to air, rail and road transport. There are no significant logistical difficulties for transportation of refined gold. Power for the project is provided pursuant to a contractual arrangement with Navoi, which acquires such power from a local plant.
Indonesia
Introduction
We have two operating properties in Indonesia--Minahasa, a gold operation, and Batu Hijau which produces copper/gold concentrates. We own 80% of Minahasa. The remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an Indonesian company. Because we funded 100% of the construction costs, we are entitled to 100% of the gold production until we recover the bulk of our investment, including interest. We have a 45% interest in Batu Hijau which we own through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation. Sumitomo holds a 35% interest, and the remaining 20% is a carried interest held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah, an Indonesian company. As a result of this ownership structure, we are accounting for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment. We are entitled to 56.25% of the concentrate production until we recover the bulk of our investment, including interest.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to private parties to explore for and to develop the mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, we entered into fourth generation Contracts of Work with the government covering Minahasa and Batu Hijau. Under the
Contracts of Work, we were granted the exclusive right to explore the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials and sell and export the minerals produced subject to certain Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the Indonesian government. We have the right to continue operating the projects for 30 years, or longer, if approved by the Indonesian government. Under our Contracts of Work, beginning in the sixth year after mining operations commenced (and continuing through the tenth year) a portion of each project not already owned by Indonesian nationals must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, thereby potentially reducing our ownership in each project to 49% by the end of the tenth year. The price at which such interest would be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties would be the highest of (i) the then current replacement cost, (ii) the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange or (iii) the fair market value of such interest as a going concern.
In April 1997, we entered into a Contract of Work granting us rights to explore an area located near the Minahasa contract area through a new company, P. T. Newmont Mongondow Mining. We have an 80% interest and the remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P. T. Lebong Tandai, an Indonesian company. This Contract of Work is a sixth generation Contract of Work. The major differences between the fourth and sixth generation Contracts of Work are a reduced income tax rate (from 35% to 30%), elimination of the requirement that non-Indonesian parties divest part of their 80% interest and changes in the method of royalty calculation.
Minahasa
Our first project in Indonesia, Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, is a Newmont discovery and consists of a multi-deposit operation. Production began in August 1996. It is approximately 1,500 miles northeast of Jakarta. Minahasa mines and processes ore from the open pit Mesel deposit and a number of smaller peripheral deposits. These deposits contain both oxidized and refractory gold mineralization.
Minahasa produced 336,800 ounces of gold in 1999 at a total cash cost of $103 per ounce as compared to 261,000 ounces of gold in 1998 at a total cash cost of $127 per ounce.
The project's facilities include a dry grinding mill, a fluidized bed roaster facility and a conventional carbon-in-pulp gold recovery plant. Infrastructure facilities include a deep-water port, electrical power plant, water supply system and housing for workers. The Minahasa project is in close proximity to the coast and does not have any significant logistical difficulties for transportation of materials, equipment or its product.
Batu Hijau
Our second project in Indonesia, Batu Hijau, is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit which we discovered in 1990. It is located seven miles from the south coast and nine miles from the west coast of the island and has access to a natural harbor which has been developed for transportation of materials, equipment and copper concentrate. Other facilities at the operation include a coal-fired electrical generating plant, a townsite for the workforce and other ancillary facilities. The total cost of the project was approximately $1.83 billion including capitalized interest during construction and working capital.
In July 1997, agreements for $1 billion in financing for the Batu Hijau project were signed. The financing is guaranteed by Newmont and Sumitomo Corporation, 56.25% and 43.75%, respectively, until project completion tests are met, and will be non-recourse to Newmont and Sumitomo thereafter. See also Note 3 to the financial statements in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 32.
Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. See " Results of Operations - Overseas Operations" discussion in Managements's Discussion and Analysis in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 21. The mined ore is transported by truck to a primary crusher. A 4.3 mile conveyer belt carries ore from the primary crusher to a mill complex where it is crushed, ground and mixed in tanks with saltwater and continuously agitated with air. During this process the copper and gold bearing particles rise to the top of the tanks and leave the mill complex as a thickened concentrate slurry which is pumped through a pipeline to a port facility where it is filtered, dried to the consistency of wet sand and stored for shipping.
Mexico
In Mexico, we have a 44% interest in La Herradura which is located in northwest Sonora, Mexico. It commenced production in June 1998. The Penoles group, Mexico's largest silver producer, holds a 56% interest and is the operator. Mining is conducted in two open pits and the ore is processed by run-of-mine heap-leaching. In 1999, La Herradura produced 91,000 ounces of gold, 40,200 ounces attributable to our interest at a total cash cost of $159 per ounce. In 1998, La Herradura produced 29,200 ounces of gold, 12,900 ounces attributable to our interest at a total cash cost of $115 per ounce.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Our equity in proven and probable gold reserves was 56.6 million ounces (of which approximately 753,000 ounces have been committed under a prepaid forward sales contract) at December 31, 1999 and 52.6 million ounces at December 31, 1998. In addition, our equity in proven and probable copper reserves was 5.7 billion pounds at December 31, 1999 and 4.8 billion pounds at December 31, 1998. Our equity in proven and probable silver reserves was 182.8 million ounces at December 31, 1999.
Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry. Calculations with respect to the estimates of proven and probable gold reserves at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were based on a gold price of $325 per ounce and $350 per ounce, respectively. We believe that if reserve estimates were based on a gold price of $300 per ounce, 1999 year-end proven and probable gold reserves could decrease by approximately 5%.
The proven and probable reserves figures presented herein are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold, copper and silver will be realized. Ounces of gold and silver or pounds of copper in our proven and probable reserves are prior to any losses during mining or metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold, copper and silver, as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, could render our proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES
Numbers may differ slightly from those reported previously as a result of different deposit groupings yielding different rounding of totals.
- -------- (/1/The)term "reserve" means that part of a mineral deposit which can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term "economically," as used in the definition of reserve, implies that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term "legally," as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, there should be a reasonable certainty based on applicable laws and regulations that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues can be accomplished in a timely manner. The term "proven reserves" means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the result of detailed sampling and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term "probable reserves" means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. (/2/Proven)and probable reserves in North America were calculated using different cutoff grades depending on each deposit's properties. The term "cut-off grade" means the lowest grade of mineralized rock that can be included in the reserve in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and milling or leaching facilities available. The cutoffs utilized in 1999 were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.004 ounce per ton; oxide mill cutoffs varied; refractory leach materials between 0.013 and 0.060 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.039 ounce per ton. Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different recoveries depending on each deposit's metallurgical properties and process. The recoveries utilized in 1999 were as follows: oxide leach recoveries ranged from 44% to 80% averaging 66%; oxide mill recoveries ranged from 72% to 96% averaging 86%; refractory leach recoveries ranged from 23% to 70%, averaging 62%; refractory mill recoveries ranged from 85% to 94%, averaging 89%. (/3/These)reserves are approximately 71% refractory in nature and are not amenable to the direct cyanidation recovery processes currently used for oxide material. Such ore must be oxidized before it is subjected to the normal recovery processes. (/4/Calculated)using a cut-off grade of 0.01 ounce per ton and a leach recovery of 72%. All ore is oxidized. (/5/Calculated)using a cut-off grade not less than 0.006 ounce of gold per ton. The cutoff grade is a function of both gold and silver content. The gold leach recoveries ranged from 67% to 82%, depending on each deposit's metallurgical properties. Silver recoveries were estimated at 30%. All ore is oxidized. (/6/Material)available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or from other specified sources. Tonnage and gold content of material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or from other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan. Material is crushed to liberate the gold and leached. Ore reserves calculated using 61% leach recoveries. (/7/Calculated)using a cut-off grade of 0.113 ounce per ton and a mill recovery of 90% for refractory material. For oxide material a cut-off grade not less than 0.024 ounce per ton was used and a leach recovery of 62%. (/8/Based)on a feasibility study completed in 1996 and updated in 1998 and 1999. Operations commenced in late 1999. Production is in the form of a copper-gold concentrate. Average recoveries estimated at 93% for copper and 82% for gold. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. (/9/Reflects)Newmont's economic interest in the underlying reserves of 95.35% with respect to Minahasa and 54.35% with respect to Batu Hijau.
ITEM 3.