ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Tables presenting mine, mill and leach production data for each of the properties described in this Item 2 and owned by Newmont at December 31, 2000 are set forth on pages 53 to 54 in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.
Nevada
Production
Our Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of Elko on the geological feature known as the Carlin Trend which we discovered in 1961, and operations in the Winnemucca Region which were acquired in the 1997 merger with Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation. The Carlin Trend is the largest gold district discovered in North America in the last 50 years. The Winnemucca region includes (i) the Twin Creeks mine located near Winnemucca, (ii) the Lone Tree Complex located near Battle Mountain, and (iii) the Battle Mountain Complex, acquired in the January 10, 2001 merger, where there are no currently active mining operations but where studies are ongoing with respect to the feasibility of developing a large copper/gold deposit. Production began in 1965 at Carlin, in 1990 at Twin Creeks, and in 1991 at Lone Tree.
Gold production in Nevada totaled approximately 3.0 million equity ounces in 2000 at a total cash cost of $203 per ounce and 2.5 million equity ounces in 1999 at a cash cost of $211 per ounce.
In 2000, ore was mined from nine open-pit deposits and four underground mines. The Deep Post open pit deposit at Carlin was mined by Barrick Goldstrike Mines Inc. under a joint mining agreement. The parties shared the cost of mining the ore body in proportion to their interests in the contained gold. During the past year the high grade sulphide ores from Deep Post contributed substantially to the Carlin Trend results. Although that open pit was mined out at the end of the year, production from stockpiled ore will continue into 2001 and development of the Deep Post underground mine which is accessed through a decline at the bottom of the pit was nearly completed by year end 2000.
The 50% owned Rosebud underground mine, located in the Winnamucca region and operated by Hecla Mining Company, ceased operation in August 2000, as the ore body was fully depleted.
Processing Facilities
Our operations in Nevada have a number of different ore types and processing techniques. A linear program has been developed to determine the best mix of ore types for each processing facility in order to obtain the maximum ounces of gold at the lowest cost from the ores. Gold is extracted from ores that are naturally oxidized by either heap leaching or milling, generally depending on the amount of gold (grade) contained in the ore. Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized, known as refractory or sulfide ores, require more complex processing techniques that are more costly than processing oxide ore. Approximately 71% of Nevada's 2000 year-end proven and probable gold reserves were refractory and the balance were oxide. Nevada's production has increasingly come from higher-cost refractory ores from both deep open pits and underground mines as lower-cost, near-surface oxide ores have been depleted. Refractory ore treatment facilities are expected to generate approximately 70% of Nevada's gold production in 2001, compared with 68% in 2000 and 54% in 1999.
Higher-grade oxide ores are processed at one oxide mill at Carlin, two at Twin Creeks and one at Lone Tree. The ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit where gold is separated. Lower-grade oxide ores are processed using heap leaching where ore is crushed and stacked on impermeable pads, where weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heaps
to dissolve the gold. The gold-bearing solution is collected and pumped to mill facilities to remove the gold by electrowinning or zinc precipitation.
Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks or Lone Tree. The roaster heats finely ground ore to a high temperature and burns off the carbon and sulfide minerals that encase the gold. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to remove sulfide minerals from the ore. Lower-grade sulfide ores are processed through a flotation plant at Lone Tree or by bio-milling at Carlin. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold- containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the cell where they can be separated from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and form a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology referred to as bio-oxidation. Bio-oxidation involves inoculation of ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria that oxidize the sulfides encasing the gold. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.
Gold-bearing activated carbon from Carlin's milling and leaching facilities is processed on site at a central carbon processing plant and adjacent smelting facilities. Separate carbon processing facilities are located in the North and South Areas at Twin Creeks with one smelter in the North Area. Lone Tree has two carbon processing facilities. Material from the Lone Tree carbon processing facilities is smelted at Carlin.
Other Facilities
Analytical laboratories, maintenance facilities and administration offices are located at Carlin, Twin Creeks and the Lone Tree Complex. We also have an advanced metallurgical research laboratory in Denver, Colorado.
Electrical power and natural gas for Newmont's Nevada operations are provided by public utilities. Oxygen for the roaster is provided on a contract basis from an oxygen plant constructed by the supplier on land leased from Newmont. We are the sole customer of the oxygen produced. Oxygen plants used in conjunction with the autoclaves at Twin Creeks and Lone Tree are owned by Newmont and are operated and maintained by a third party.
Mineral Rights
We own, or control through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present Carlin and Winnemucca Region mining operations areas. The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry Mine at Carlin, we own a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and lease the remaining 90% on which we pay a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly owned or controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, we are obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 3% to 5% of production.
California
We have one mine in Southern California, Mesquite, that was acquired in the 1997 merger with Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation. Located in Imperial County, it was acquired by Santa Fe in 1993 and has been producing since 1986. Mining at Mesquite is conducted in two open pits and ore is processed by run- of-mine heap-leaching. Gold production totaled 130.3 thousand ounces in 2000 and 164.6 thousand ounces in 1999. Total cash costs per ounce were $221 and $167 for 2000 and 1999, respectively.
Gold-bearing activated carbon from leaching facilities is processed at an on-site carbon processing plant and smelter. Maintenance facilities and administration offices are also located at Mesquite. Electric power is supplied by a local utility.
Last year was Mesquite's last year of full production. In 2001, production is expected to decrease to 80,000 ounces as operations transition to temporary shutdown and reclamation.
We own, or control through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the present mining areas of the Mesquite deposits. The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits.
Peru
Introduction
The properties of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. are located approximately 375 miles north of Lima and 28 miles north of the city of Cajamarca. In 1986, we discovered the Yanacocha gold deposit which has since become the largest gold district in South America. Minera Yanacocha began production in 1993. Prior to 1997, we owned a 38% equity interest in Minera Yanacocha. In 1997, we consolidated Minera Yanacocha in our financial statements following the acquisition of an additional 13.35% interest. The remaining interest is held by Compania de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%). A description of such acquisition is set forth in Note 15 to the financial statements in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 41. One of our subsidiaries is the operator at Minera Yanacocha.
Minera Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position that includes multiple deposits as well as other prospects. Such mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted by the Peruvian government to a related entity. The assignments have a term of 20 years, beginning in the early 1990s, renewable at the option of Minera Yanacocha for another 20 years.
In October 2000, Newmont and Compania de Minas Buenaventura announced a unitization of their land holdings in northern Peru, folding them into Minera Yanacocha. The unitization increases Yanacocha's land position from 100 to 535 square miles and includes four property units that had been held separately.
Production
Four open-pit mines and three leach pads are in operation at Minera Yanacocha. In late 1999, Minera Yanacocha terminated its contract mining agreement and, as a result, is achieving improved productivity and efficiency by conducting mine operations with its own employees. In 2000, production totaled 1.8 million ounces of gold (921,900 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $88 per ounce as compared to 1999 production of 1.7 million ounces of gold (850,300 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $103 per ounce.
None of the ore at Minera Yanacocha is crushed, but is transported directly to impermeable leach pads where it is treated with a weak cyanide solution that dissolves the gold. In 2001, a fifth open pit mine, La Quinua, will begin production. Ore from this mine will require crushing and agglomeration before leaching which will increase cash costs slightly. The gold bearing leach solution is collected and pumped through one of two Merrill-Crowe plants to remove the gold from the solution as a zinc-gold precipitate. After the gold is processed from the precipitate and smelted into dore, it is transported from the processing plant by a contractor to a third-party refiner. Minera Yanacocha's operations are accessible by road. Power for the project is provided pursuant to a four year renewable contractual agreement with a local power company. Backup power is provided by diesel generators owned by Minera Yanacocha.
Uzbekistan
Introduction
Newmont has a 50% interest in Zarafshan-Newmont. The remaining 50% interest is divided between the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources ("State Committee") and Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine ("Navoi"), each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide ore from the nearby government-owned Muruntau mine. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars. Newmont provides
technical and managerial support to Zarafshan-Newmont. The State Committee and Navoi guaranteed to furnish Zarafshan-Newmont with 242 million tons of ore with an average grade of 0.036 ounces of gold per ton, containing approximately 8.6 million ounces of gold. In late 2000, the ore supply agreement was amended to add an additional 220 million tons of ore with an average grade of 0.05 ounces of gold per ton. To handle the additional ore, the joint venture has arranged for construction of a leach pad extension and an ore supply conveyor system. The amended agreement extends the life of the operation to at least 2013.
Production
In 2000, total production was 498,800 ounces of gold (249,400 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $129 per ounce. In 1999, total production was 543,000 ounces of gold (271,500 equity ounces) at a total cash cost of $161 per ounce.
Ore from the existing stockpiles is crushed in four stages. The crushed material is transported via conveyor to impermeable leach pads where it is treated with a weak cyanide solution that penetrates the ore, dissolving the gold. The pregnant leach solution is collected and pumped through a Merrill- Crowe plant to remove the gold from the solution as a zinc-gold precipitate. After the gold is removed from the precipitate and smelted into dore bars it is refined at the nearby Muruntau gold refinery and then exported. The project has access to air, rail and road transport. There are no significant logistical difficulties for transportation of refined gold. Power for the project is provided pursuant to a contractual arrangement with Navoi, which acquires such power from a local plant.
Indonesia
Introduction
We have two operating properties in Indonesia--Minahasa, a gold operation, and Batu Hijau which produces copper/gold concentrates. We own 80% of Minahasa. The remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an Indonesian company. Because we funded 100% of the construction costs, we are entitled to 100% of the gold production until we recover the bulk of our investment, including interest. We have a 45% interest in Batu Hijau which we own through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation which holds a 35% interest. The remaining 20% is a carried interest held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah, an Indonesian company. We are accounting for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment due to each partner's significant participating rights in the business. We are entitled to 56.25% of the concentrate production until we recover the bulk of our investment, including interest.
In Indonesia, rights are granted to private parties to explore for and to develop the mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, we entered into fourth generation Contracts of Work with the government covering Minahasa and Batu Hijau. Under the Contracts of Work, we were granted the exclusive right to explore the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials and sell and export the minerals produced subject to certain Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the Indonesian government. We have the right to continue operating the projects for 30 years, or longer, if approved by the Indonesian government. Under our Contracts of Work, beginning in the sixth year after mining operations commenced (and continuing through the tenth year) a portion of each project not already owned by Indonesian nationals must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, thereby potentially reducing our ownership in each project to 49% by the end of the tenth year. The price at which such interest would be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties would be the highest of (i) the then current replacement cost, (ii) the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange or (iii) the fair market value of such interest as a going concern.
In April 1997, we entered into a Contract of Work granting us rights to explore an area located near the Minahasa contract area through a new company, P. T. Newmont Mongondow Mining. We have an 80% interest and the remaining 20% is a carried interest held by P. T. Lebong Tandai, an Indonesian company. This Contract of Work is a sixth generation Contract of Work. The major differences between the fourth and sixth generation Contracts of Work are a reduced income tax rate (from 35% to 30%), elimination of the requirement that non-Indonesian parties divest part of their 80% interest and changes in the method of royalty calculation.
Minahasa
Our first project in Indonesia, Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, is a Newmont discovery and consists of a multi-deposit operation. Production began in 1996. It is approximately 1,500 miles northeast of Jakarta. Minahasa mines and processes ore from the open pit Mesel deposit and a number of smaller peripheral deposits. These deposits contain both oxidized and refractory gold mineralization.
Minahasa produced 364,300 ounces of gold in 2000 at a total cash cost of $133 per ounce as compared to 336,800 ounces of gold in 1999 at a total cash cost of $103 per ounce. It is expected that processing from this mine will end in 2003.
The project's facilities include a dry grinding mill, a fluidized bed roaster facility and a conventional carbon-in-pulp gold recovery plant. Infrastructure facilities include a deep-water port, electrical power plant, water supply system and housing for workers. The Minahasa project is in close proximity to the coast and does not have any significant logistical difficulties for transportation of materials, equipment or its product.
Batu Hijau
Our second project in Indonesia, Batu Hijau, is located on the island of Sumbawa, approximately 950 miles east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit which we discovered in 1990. It is located seven miles from the south coast and nine miles from the west coast of the island and has access to a natural harbor which has been developed for transportation of materials, equipment and copper concentrate. Other facilities at the operation include a coal-fired electrical generating plant, a townsite for the workforce and other ancillary facilities. The total cost of the project was approximately $1.83 billion including capitalized interest during construction and working capital.
In July 1997, agreements for $1 billion in financing for the Batu Hijau project were signed. The financing was guaranteed by Newmont and Sumitomo Corporation, 56.25% and 43.75%, respectively. Project completion tests were met in October 2000 and, as a result, the financing is now non-recourse to Newmont and Sumitomo. See also Note 5 to the financial statements in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders on page 33.
Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. The mined ore is transported by truck to a primary crusher. A 4.3 mile conveyer belt carries ore from the primary crusher to a mill complex where it is crushed, ground and mixed in tanks with saltwater and continuously agitated with air. During this process the copper and gold bearing particles rise to the top of the tanks and leave the mill complex as a thickened concentrate slurry which is pumped through a pipeline to a port facility where it is filtered, dried to the consistency of wet sand and stored for shipping. The mine produced 520.8 million pounds of copper and 320,100 ounces of gold in concentrates in the year 2000. After gold credits the cash cost was 0.57 cents per pound of copper. Full productions of 600 million pounds of copper and 480,000 ounces of gold in concentrates is expected to be reached in 2002 with lower cash costs per pound of copper.
Mexico
In Mexico, we have a 44% interest in La Herradura which is located in northwest Sonora, Mexico. It commenced production in June 1998. The Penoles group, Mexico's largest silver producer, holds a 56% interest and is the operator. Mining is conducted in two open pits and the ore is processed by run-of-mine heap-leaching. In 2000, La Herradura produced 114,000 ounces of gold, 50,500 ounces attributable to our interest, at a total cash cost of $131 per ounce. In 1999, La Herradura produced 91,000 ounces of gold, 40,200 ounces attributable to our interest, at a total cash cost of $159 per ounce.
Mines Acquired After December 31, 2000
Introduction
At the time of its merger with Newmont, Battle Mountain had a 50% or greater interest in four active mining operations which are briefly described below. The reserve numbers stated for each mine below are given as calculated by Battle Mountain and have not been independently calculated by Newmont.
Golden Giant Mine
The Golden Giant Mine (100% owned) is located approximately 25 miles east of the town of Marathon in Ontario, Canada. The main access to the mine is by a 1.2 mile road from the Trans-Canada Highway. The Golden Giant and the adjacent David Bell and Williams mines are physically connected underground and cooperate on blasting, mining, access and ventilation. The Golden Giant ore is mined using underground mining methods. After being fed to an underground primary jaw crusher, ore is hoisted to the surface and conveyed to another crushing facility, a ball mill grinding circuit and finally a cyanide-in-pulp circuit.
The Golden Giant Mine has been in production since 1985. Production in 2000 was approximately 334,000 ounces at a total cash cost of $151 per ounce. Current reserves are 1.4 million ounces.
Holloway Mine
The Holloway underground mine is located approximately 35 miles east of Matheson in Ontario, Canada, and about 400 miles northeast of Golden Giant. Access to the mine is by a driveway type exit off a provincial highway. The mine is owned by a joint venture in which Newmont has an 84.65% interest. The remaining 15.35% interest is held by Teddy Bear Valley Mines.
The ore from Holloway is mined using underground methods and is custom milled at two nearby operations.
The Holloway Mine commenced production late in 1996. In 2000, the mine produced 930,000 equity ounces and at December 31, 2000, Newmont's share of reserves was 758,000 ounces.
Kori Kollo Mine
The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on the high plane in western Bolivia near Oruru on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A., which owns and operates Kori Kollo Mine. Newmont now owns 88% of Inti Raymi. The remaining 12% is owned by Zeland Mines, S.A.
Gold is produced from the mine's oxide ores by heap leaching and from the sulphide ore at the mill in a carbon-in-pulp circuit. In 2000, the mine produced 241,000 equity ounces of gold at a total cash cost of $204 per ounce. At December 31, 2000, Newmont's share of reserves was 1.0 million ounces.
Vera/Nancy Mine
The Vera/Nancy mine is the only currently active mine on the Pajingo Complex in Queensland, Australia. The Pajingo Complex, which includes the now depleted Pajingo and Cindy ore bodies, is located approximately 120 miles southeast of Townsville, Queensland on 10.5 square miles held under a mineral lease from the state of Queensland.
Newmont now has a 50% interest in the Vera/Nancy mine and the Pajingo Complex. The other 50% interest is held by Normandy Mining Limited, an Australian gold mining company which is the operator of the mine. Ore from the mine is processed at the Pajingo mill in a carbon-in-pulp cyanide leach circuit.
Production in 2000 was 116,000 ounces of gold at a total cash cost of $98 per ounce. Reserves at year end were 480,000 equity ounces.
Proven and Probable Reserves
Our equity in proven and probable gold reserves was 56.7 million ounces (of which approximately 716,696 ounces have been committed under a prepaid forward sales contract) at December 31, 2000 and 56.6 million ounces at December 31, 1999. In addition, our equity in proven and probable copper reserves was 5.6 billion pounds at December 31, 2000 and 5.7 billion pounds at December 31, 1999.
Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry. Calculations with respect to the estimates of proven and probable gold reserves at December 31, 2000 and 1999 were based on a gold price of $300 per ounce and $325 per ounce, respectively. We believe that if reserve estimates were based on a gold price of $275 per ounce, 2000 year-end proven and probable gold reserves could decrease by approximately 8%.
The proven and probable reserves figures presented herein are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper in our proven and probable reserves are prior to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, could render our proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
Newmont Mining Corporation
At December 31, 2000 in U.S. Units
Newmont Mining Corporation
At December 31, 1999 in U.S. Units
Newmont Mining Corporation
At December 31, 2000 in U.S. Units
At December 31, 1999 in U.S. Units
- -------- (1) The term "reserve" means that part of a mineral deposit which can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term "economically," as used in the definition of reserve, implies that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term "legally," as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, there should be a reasonable certainty based on applicable laws and regulations that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues can be accomplished in a timely manner. The term "proven reserves" means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the result of detailed sampling and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term "probable reserves" means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. (2) Tonnages are after allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. (3) Contained ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and are before allowances for processing losses. Estimated losses from processing are expressed as recovery rates and represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. (4) Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cutoff grades depending on each deposit's properties. The term "cut-off grade" means the lowest grade of mineralized rock that can be included in the reserve in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and milling or leaching facilities available. In Nevada, the cutoffs utilized in 2000 were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill cutoffs varied; refractory leach materials between 0.025 and 0.110 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.055 ounce per ton. (5) These reserves are approximately 71% refractory in nature and are not amenable to the direct cyanidation recovery processes currently used for oxide material. Such ore must be oxidized before it is subjected to the normal recovery processes. (6) Calculated using a cut-off grade of 0.01 ounce per ton. All ore is oxidized. (7) Calculated using a cut-off grade not less than 0.006 ounce of gold per ton. The cutoff grade is a function of both gold and silver content. All ore is oxidized. (8) Material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or from other specified sources. Tonnage and gold content of material available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or from other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan. Material is crushed to liberate the gold and leached. (9) Calculated using a cut-off grade of 0.102 ounce per ton for refractory material. For oxide material a cut-off grade not less than 0.022 ounce per ton was used. (10) Operations commenced in late 1999. Production is in the form of a copper- gold concentrate. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting is equivalent to 0.30% copper. (11) Percentage reflects Newmont's economic interest.
ITEM 3.