Item 2. Property Descriptions
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
Various of our subsidiaries own 100% of the Greens Creek mine, located on Admiralty Island near Juneau in Southeast Alaska. Admiralty Island is accessed by boat, float plane, or helicopter. On the island, the mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by all-weather gravel roads. The Greens Creek mine has been in production since 1989, with a temporary care and maintenance period from April 1993 through July 1996. Since the start of production, Greens Creek has been owned and operated through various joint venture arrangements. For approximately 15 years prior to April 16, 2008, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek. On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a 70.3% interest in the Greens Creek mine and which previously operated the mine for approximately $758.5 million. The acquisition gave various of our subsidiaries control of 100% of the Greens Creek mine.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies within the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 639 unpatented lode mining claims, 58 patented lode claims and one patented mill site. In addition, the Greens Creek site includes properties under lease from the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") for a road right-of-way, mine portal and mill site access, camp site, mine waste area and tailings impoundment. The USFS leases have varying expiration terms. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,301 acres of federal land acquired through a land exchange with the USFS. We are currently exploring, but not mining, on such federal land.
The entire project is accessed by boat and served by 13 miles of road and consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities and a ferry dock. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs most often along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the U.S. Forest Service and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,500 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to federal royalties included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no production triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than $120 per ton of ore, and 0.75% if the value is $120 per ton or less. The benchmark of $120 per ton is adjusted annually according to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Implicit Price Deflator until the year 2016, and at December 31, 2012, was at approximately $167 per ton when applying the latest GDP Implicit Price Deflator.
Greens Creek is an underground mine which produces approximately 2,100 to 2,300 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The Greens Creek ore processing facility includes a SAG/ball mill grinding circuit to grind the run of mine ore to liberate the minerals and produce a slurry suitable for differential flotation of mineral concentrates. A gravity circuit recovers free gold that exists as electrum, a gold/silver alloy in the ore. Doré and gravity concentrates are produced from this circuit prior to flotation. Three flotation concentrates are produced: a lead concentrate which contain most of the silver recovered; a zinc concentrate which is low in precious metals content; and a zinc-rich bulk concentrate that contains gold, silver, zinc, and lead and must be marketed to an imperial smelter. Process capacity averages between 2,200 and 2,300 tons per day depending on ore grade and hardness. In 2012, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,157 tons per day and mill recovery totaled approximately 73% silver, 78% zinc, 68% lead and 61% gold. The doré is further refined by precious metal refiners and sold to banks, and the three concentrate products are sold to a number of major smelters worldwide. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the significant customers for Greens Creek’s products. Concentrates are shipped from the Hawk Inlet marine terminal about nine miles from the mill.
Underground exploration activities at the Greens Creek unit during 2012 focused on continued expansion of the 200 South, Gallagher, NWW and Southwest Bench ore zones along trend of already-existing reserves and in new areas such as the Northeast and West contacts. Definition drilling of the 200 South, 9a and NWW ore zones resulted in additions to reserves. Surface exploration drilling was conducted in 2012 on the Killer Creek and West Gallagher targets near the Greens Creek mine where mineralization was identified. Approximately 25,000 feet of surface drilling is planned at the Greens Creek unit for 2013.
Electricity for the Greens Creek unit is provided through the purchase of surplus hydroelectric power from Alaska Electric Light and Power Company (“AEL&P”), to the extent it is available after the power needs of Juneau and the surrounding area are met. When weather conditions are not favorable to maintain lake water levels sufficient for all of the power needs at Greens Creek to be met by available hydroelectric power, the mine relies on power provided by on-site diesel generators .
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 386 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2012.
As of December 31, 2012, we have recorded a $32.9 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintained a $30 million reclamation bond for Greens Creek as of December 31, 2012. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $681 million as of December 31, 2012.
Based on current ore reserve estimates, the currently known remaining mine life at Greens Creek is 10 years. Information with respect to production, average costs per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Part II, Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Estimates of proven and probable ore reserves for the Greens Creek unit as of December 2012, 2011 and 2010 are calculated and reviewed in-house and are derived from successive generations of reserve and feasibility analyses for different areas of the mine, using a separate assessment of metals prices for each year. The average prices used for the Greens Creek unit were:
(3)
Ore reserves represent in-place material, diluted and adjusted for expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries of ore reserve grades differ with ore grades, and the 2012 reserve model assumes average mill recoveries of 73% for silver, 61% for gold, 87% for zinc and 77% for lead.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2012 versus 2011 are due to continued depletion of the deposit through production, partially offset by the addition of data from new drill holes and development work and increases in tonnage due to higher metals prices used for planning. The changes in reserves in 2011 versus 2010 were due to the lower ore grades for gold, zinc, and lead combined with continued depletion of the deposit, partially offset by increases in forecasted metals prices.
(5)
Probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. The proven reserves reported for Greens Creek for 2012 represents stockpiled ore. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by orebody and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Greens Creek, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade was $190 per ton NSR.
(6)
Greens Creek ore reserve estimates were prepared by Kerry Lear, Senior Resource Geologist at the Greens Creek unit and reviewed by John Taylor, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited.
(7)
An independent review by AMEC E&C, Inc. occurred in 2012. The review included the 2012 model containing a portion, 204,000 tons, of the 200 South zone that is included in reserves. The final report on the review is pending.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday mine, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. The mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by paved roads from U.S. Interstate 90. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The ore body is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of ore bodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous ore body in and along the Lucky Friday vein. The major part of the ore body has extended from 1,200 feet to 6,020 feet below surface.
The second ore-bearing structure, known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, has been mined since 1997 pursuant to an operating agreement with Silver Hunter Mining Company (“Silver Hunter”), our wholly owned subsidiary. During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. At approximately 4,900 feet below surface, the Gold Hunter veins are hosted in a 200-foot thick siliceous lens within the Wallace Formation that transitions to the St. Regis Formation below 5,900 feet. The veins are sub-parallel, and are numbered consecutively from the hanging wall of the favorable horizon to the footwall. The strike of the vein system is west-northwest with a dip of 85 degrees to the south. The 30-vein, which has demonstrated to contain higher silver grades, represents approximately 79% of our current proven and probable ore reserve tonnages, while the remaining 21% of our reserves are contained in various intermediate veins having lower silver grades than 30-vein. While the veins share many characteristics with the Lucky Friday vein, the Gold Hunter area possesses some mineralogical and rock mechanics differences that make it more favorable to mine at this time. On November 6, 2008, we, through Silver Hunter, completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company, which held an interest in the Gold Hunter property. The acquisition included all future interests or royalty obligations to Independence and the mining claims pertaining to the operating agreement with Hecla Limited that was assigned to Silver Hunter.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the ore body. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
Ore at the Lucky Friday is processed using a conventional lead/zinc flotation flow sheet, with process control guided by a real-time on-line analyzer. Run of mine ore is crushed in a conventional three stage crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw crusher, and a secondary crushing circuit, and tertiary cone crushing stage. Crushed ore is ground in a ball mill, and the ground slurry reports to the lead flotation circuit. The lead circuit tailings report to the zinc flotation circuit. Lead and zinc concentrates are thickened and filtered, and final concentrate products are shipped to smelters for final processing. Current processing capacity of the Lucky Friday facility is approximately 1,000 tons per day. As discussed further below, production at Lucky Friday was temporarily suspended during 2012. In 2011, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 905 tons per day. During 2011, mill recovery totaled approximately 93% silver, 93% lead and 87% zinc. All silver-lead and zinc concentrate production during 2011 was shipped to Teck Cominco Limited’s smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Underground exploration activities were suspended at the Lucky Friday unit during 2012 as rehabilitation of the Silver Shaft was completed (discussed below). During 2012 all the reserves models were converted from 2D to 3D to allow better representation of the ore zones and allow improved mining stope designs. In-fill drilling in 2013 from 6800 to 7300 Levels is expected to allow for the potential addition of reserves in the western portion of the mine. Exploration drilling has shown the pervasive continuity of mineralization at depth and encouraging results confirmed expansion to the east. In 2013, drilling is expected to evaluate areas to the east from 6400 to 7200 Levels. Surface exploration in the Silver Valley, near the Lucky Friday mine, focused in the Star-Morning area but also evaluated the Noonday, Moffat, You Like and Tamarack veins. Additional surface exploration drilling is planned for 2013.
Based on current estimates of reserves, mineralized material, and other resources, the currently expected mine life at the Lucky Friday is approximately 26 years. Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, average cost per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at the Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at the Lucky Friday ranges from $76 per ton NSR to $89 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries are expected to be 93% for silver, 93% for lead and 87% for zinc.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2012 versus 2011 are primarily due to inclusion of additional areas into the mine plan as a result of additional drilling and higher metals prices used for planning. The changes in reserves in 2011 versus 2010 are due to addition of data from new drill holes and development work, an increase in mining widths in areas utilizing mechanized mining, and increases in forecasted metals prices, which has resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates, partially offset by depletion due to production.
(5)
Lucky Friday ore reserve estimates were prepared by Terry DeVoe, Chief Geologist at the Lucky Friday unit and reviewed by John Taylor, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited.
A number of accidents and other events have recently impacted operations at the Lucky Friday. In April 2011, a fall of ground caused the fatality of one employee, resulting in cessation of operations for approximately 10 days. In November 2011, an accident occurred as part of the construction of #4 Shaft and resulted in the fatality of one contractor employee. In an unrelated incident, in December 2011, a rock burst occurring in a primary access way at the Lucky Friday injured seven employees. At the end of 2011, MSHA began a special impact inspection at the Lucky Friday which resulted in an order to remove built-up cementitious material from the Silver Shaft, the primary access way from surface at the Lucky Friday mine. In response, we submitted a plan to MSHA and received approval to remove the built-up cementitious material. In addition, the plan included removal of unused utilities, construction of a water ring to prevent ice from forming in the winter, the installation of a metal brattice, repair of shaft steel, and installation of a new power and fiber optic cable, all of which should improve the shaft's functionality and possibly improve the shaft's hoisting capacity. Once the shaft cleanup was complete down to the 4900 level, work on a haulage way bypassing the area at 5900 level impacted by the December 2011 rock burst commenced. Work on the Silver Shaft and the haulage way was completed in the first quarter of 2013. Underground access was temporarily limited as this work was being performed, and production at the Lucky Friday mine was suspended from late 2011 until early 2013 as a result. Limited production commenced in the first quarter of 2013, and we anticipate a ramp-up of mine output during the year as we perform additional rehabilitation and get necessary clearance from MSHA until we return to full production levels at the Lucky Friday by approximately mid-2013.
During 2008, we initiated engineering, procurement and development activities relating to construction of #4 Shaft at the Lucky Friday mine, which, upon completion, would provide access from the 4900 level down to the 8800 level of the mine. The project was temporarily placed on hold in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to then prevailing metals prices. However, detailed engineering, long lead time procurement, and other early-stage activities for the internal shaft project resumed in 2009. Activities in 2010 and 2011 relating to #4 Shaft included engineering, erection of a surface concrete batch plant, detailed shaft design, excavation of the hoist room and off shaft development access to shaft facilities, installation of the hoist and head works, placement and receipt of orders for major equipment purchases, advancement of a geotechnical drill hole, 367 feet of vertical excavation, shaft-sinking set-up, and other construction activities. Upon completion, #4 Shaft should allow us to mine mineralized material below our current workings and provide deeper platforms for exploration. Construction of #4 Shaft is expected to take approximately three more years to complete after re-commencement, and capital expenditures for the project are forecast to total approximately $200 million, including approximately $92 million spent on the project through December 31, 2012. As a result of the requirement to remove built-up cementitious material from the Silver Shaft (discussed above), work on the #4 Shaft project was suspended until completion of the Silver Shaft rehabilitation. Work on #4 Shaft has re-commenced, and we believe that our current capital resources will allow us to complete the #4 Shaft project as designed. However, there are a number of factors that could affect completion of the project, including a significant decline in metals prices or a significant increase in operating or capital costs. An increase in the capital cost could potentially require us to suspend the project or access additional capital though debt financing, the sale of securities, or other external sources. This additional financing could be costly or unavailable.
Reclamation activities are anticipated to include stabilization of tailings ponds and waste rock areas. Reclamation of one of the idle tailings ponds was performed at Lucky Friday in 2012, and at December 31, 2012, an asset retirement obligation of approximately $1.5 million had been recorded for reclamation and closure costs.
The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $253.0 million as of December 31, 2012. The age of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2012. The plant is maintained by our employees with assistance from outside contractors as needed.
At December 31, 2012, there were 239 employees at the Lucky Friday unit. The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Service Workers International Union is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 180 hourly employees. The current labor agreement expires on April 30, 2016. As a result of the requirement to remove built-up cementitious material from the Silver Shaft, which limited underground access and temporarily suspended production at the Lucky Friday, Hecla Limited laid off 121 employees in January 2012, with approximately 25 of those employees accepting temporary positions at other Hecla operations. The employment level at the Lucky Friday has returned roughly to where it was prior to the suspension of production, with most of the laid off employees returning.
Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
Item 3.