Item 2. Properties
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
Various of our subsidiaries collectively own 100% of the Greens Creek mine, located on Admiralty Island near Juneau in Southeast Alaska. Admiralty Island is accessed by boat, float plane, or helicopter. On the island, the mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by 13 miles of all-weather gravel roads. The Greens Creek mine has been in production since 1989, with a temporary care and maintenance period from April 1993 through July 1996. Since the start of production, Greens Creek has been owned and operated through various joint venture arrangements. For approximately 15 years prior to April 16, 2008, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek. On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a 70.3% interest in the Greens Creek mine, and which previously operated the mine, for approximately $758.5 million. The acquisition gave various of our subsidiaries control collectively of 100% of the Greens Creek mine.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies within the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 440 unpatented lode mining claims, 58 unpatented millsite claims, 17 patented lode claims and one patented millsite. In addition, the Greens Creek site includes properties under lease from the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") for a road right-of-way, mine portal and mill site access, camp site, mine waste area and tailings impoundment. The USFS leases have varying expiration terms. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,301 acres of federal land acquired through a land exchange with the USFS. We are currently exploring, but not mining, on such federal land.
The project consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities, a ferry dock, and other related infrastructure. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs most often along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the U.S. Forest Service and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,500 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Any production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to a federal royalty included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on any production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no production triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than the benchmark, and 0.75% if the value is equal to or less than the benchmark. The benchmark of $120 per ton is adjusted annually in July according to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Implicit Price Deflator until the year 2016, and at December 31, 2015, was at approximately $159 per ton when applying the latest GDP Implicit Price Deflator.
Greens Creek is an underground mine accessed by a ramp from surface which produces approximately 2,100 to 2,300 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The Greens Creek ore processing facility includes a SAG/ball mill grinding circuit to grind the run of mine ore to liberate the minerals and produce a slurry suitable for differential flotation of mineral concentrates. A gravity circuit recovers free gold that exists as electrum, a gold/silver alloy in the ore. Gravity concentrates are produced from this circuit prior to flotation. Three flotation concentrates are produced: a lead concentrate which contains most of the silver recovered; a zinc concentrate which is low in precious metals content; and a zinc-rich bulk concentrate that contains gold, silver, zinc, and lead and must be marketed to an imperial smelter. Doré is produced from the gravity concentrate by a third party processor and further refined and sold to precious metal traders and other concentrate products are sold to a number of smelters worldwide. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the significant customers for Greens Creek’s products. Concentrates are shipped from the Hawk Inlet marine terminal about nine miles from the mill.
In 2015, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,231 tons per day and total mill recovery was approximately 77% silver, 87% zinc, 80% lead and 67% gold. The processing facility was originally constructed in 1988, with the first production commencing in 1989. Various modifications and upgrades have been made since that time. Changes to the flotation circuit have included: installation of regrind mills in 1992; mill recommissioning in 1996; expansion of concentrate cleaning equipment in 2000 and 2001; addition of a swing cell option in 2004, allowing for a reduction in bulk concentrate production; addition of an on-stream analyzer in 2006; expansion of lead rougher equipment in 2007; retrofit of 2 column sparge systems in 2010 and 2011; replacement of the carbon flotation columns complete with sparger upgrades in 2012 and 2013; installation of a replacement on-stream analyzer with an additional multiplexer in 2013 and 2014; and replacement of the sulfuric acid system with a carbon dioxide system for pH control in 2015. Significant changes to the grinding circuit since original construction have included a new motor, two stage screening, and various internal lining modifications for the SAG mill, and replacement of the primary cyclones and the addition of a trommel magnet in the ball mill.
Underground exploration activities at the Greens Creek unit during 2015 defined new mineralization at the, 9a, Gallagher Fault Block, Southwest Bench, Deep 200 South, and 5250 targets. Additional exploration drilling targeted the East Ore and Mine Syncline targets. Definition drilling focused on continued expansion of the NWW and Deep 200 South zones while also targeting the East Ore, 9a, West Wall and Upper Southwest zones. We anticipate that drilling will result in the conversion of mineralized material into reserves in the next couple of years. Definition drilling in 2016 is expected to focus on the East Ore, Upper Plate, Northwest West, 9a and Deep 200 South Zones. Exploration drilling in 2016 is expected to include programs at the East Ore, 9a, Deep 200 South and Gallagher Zones. Surface drilling is expected to concentrate on the Big Sore area which is located less than 2,000 feet northeast of current underground mine infrastructure.
Electricity for the Greens Creek unit is provided through the purchase of surplus hydroelectric power from Alaska Electric Light and Power Company (“AEL&P”), to the extent it is available after the power needs of Juneau and the surrounding area are met. When weather conditions are not favorable to maintain lake water levels sufficient for all of the power needs at Greens Creek to be met by available hydroelectric power, the mine relies on power provided by on-site diesel generators.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 410 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2015.
As of December 31, 2015, we have recorded a $41.3 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintained a $68.9 million reclamation and long-term water treatment bond for Greens Creek as of December 31, 2015. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $639.7 million as of December 31, 2015.
Based on current ore reserve estimates, the currently known remaining mine life at Greens Creek is 10 years. Information with respect to production, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Greens Creek, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Greens Creek is $190 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2015 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 71% for silver, 63% for gold, 88% for zinc and 78% for lead.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2015 versus 2014 are due to continued depletion of the deposit through production and lower metals price assumptions, partially offset by the addition of data from new drill holes. The changes in reserves in 2014 versus 2013 were due to the addition of data from new drill holes, partially offset by continued depletion of the deposit through production and lower metals price assumptions.
(5)
Probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. The proven reserves reported for Greens Creek for 2015 represents stockpiled ore.
(6)
Greens Creek ore reserve estimates were prepared by Robert Callaghan, Chief Geologist, and Kerry Lear, Senior Resource Geologist (contractor) at the Greens Creek unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday mine, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. The mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by paved roads from U.S. Interstate 90. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The ore body is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of ore bodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous ore body in and along the Lucky Friday vein. The major part of the ore body has extended from 1,200 feet to 6,020 feet below surface.
The second ore-bearing structure, known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, or Gold Hunter, has been mined since 1997 pursuant to an operating agreement with Silver Hunter Mining Company (“Silver Hunter”), our wholly owned subsidiary. During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. At approximately 4,900 feet below surface, the Gold Hunter veins are hosted in a 200-foot thick siliceous lens within the Wallace Formation that transitions to the St. Regis Formation below 5,900 feet. The veins are sub-parallel, and are numbered consecutively from the hanging wall of the favorable horizon to the footwall. The strike of the vein system is west-northwest with a dip of 85 degrees to the south. The 30 vein, which has demonstrated to contain higher silver grades, represents approximately 71% of our current proven and probable ore reserve tonnages, while the remaining 29% of our reserves are contained in various intermediate veins having lower silver grades than 30 vein. While the veins share many characteristics with the Lucky Friday vein, the Gold Hunter area possesses some mineralogical and rock mechanics differences that make it more favorable to mine at this time. On November 6, 2008, we, through Silver Hunter, completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company, which held an interest in the Gold Hunter property. The acquisition included all future interests or royalty obligations to Independence and the mining claims pertaining to the operating agreement with Hecla Limited that was assigned to Silver Hunter.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the ore body. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
Ore at the Lucky Friday is processed using a conventional lead/zinc flotation flowsheet, with process control guided by a real-time, on-line analyzer. Run of mine ore is crushed in a conventional three stage crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw crusher, and a secondary crushing circuit, and tertiary cone crushing stage. Crushed ore is ground in a ball mill, and the ground slurry reports to the lead flotation circuit. The lead circuit tailings report to the zinc flotation circuit. Lead and zinc concentrates are thickened and filtered, and final concentrate products are shipped to smelters for final processing. The original flotation mill was constructed in 1960 and had a capacity of 750 tons per day. Various modifications and upgrades have been made since that time, including: installation of a 1,000 ton course ore bin and replacement of the ball mill in 1984 to increase processing capacity to 1,000 tons per day; replacement of the double-deck crushing screen with a triple-deck screen, installation of a tertiary cone crushing stage, lead concentrate flash flotation equipment, four ball mill cyclones, a mill feed sampler, and lead concentrate column cleaners and thickeners in 2005; addition of dust collection equipment in the crushing plant in 2006; installation of zinc concentrate flash flotation, conditioning, and column cleaner equipment, and an on-stream analyzer in 2007; construction of two new water treatment plants in 2008, with ongoing enhancements to those facilities since that time; addition of a discharge event pond in 2009; sand cyclone and reagent equipment in 2011; and various refurbishments made during the temporary suspension period in 2012 discussed below. Current processing capacity of the Lucky Friday facility is approximately 1,000 tons per day.
As discussed further below, production at Lucky Friday was temporarily suspended during 2012 and then ramped up during 2013 to historical levels. Lucky Friday reached full production in late September 2013, averaging 837 tons milled per day. In 2014, production increased to 847 tons per day. 2015 production was impacted by the failure of an underground booster fan in the second quarter, which reduced the ventilation capacity of the mine and led to the temporary closure of a high-grade stope. Also, there were 16 days of downtime in the third quarter of 2015 for planned hoist mechanical maintenance. Lower grade stopes were mined until new booster fans and other ventilation infrastructure were commissioned at the end of the third quarter of 2015. Production resumed from the higher-grade stope in the fourth quarter of 2015. In 2015, production averaged 815 tons milled per day, and total mill recovery was approximately 95% silver, 94% lead, and 92% zinc. All lead and zinc concentrate production during 2015 was shipped to Teck Resources Limited's smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Underground exploration drilling activities have been suspended at the Lucky Friday unit since 2013, with a plan to resume exploration once deeper drill stations become available with the advance of the #4 Shaft (discussed below). Previous exploration and definition drilling from the 6500 level drill platform upgraded mineralized material to reserves along the western extent of the 30 Vein from the 7200 to 7800 levels. No drilling is planned for 2016 but is expected to resume in 2017 when new drill platforms are available.
Based on current estimates of reserves, mineralized material, and other resources, the currently expected mine life at Lucky Friday is approximately 21 years. Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Costs, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Lucky Friday ranges from $151 per ton NSR to $160 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2015 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 95% for silver, 95% for lead and 90% for zinc.
(4)
The change in reserves in 2015 from 2014 was because of lower silver prices, depletion of the deposit through production, and exclusion of some lower-grade material, partially offset by inclusion of definition drilling information from 2014. The changes in reserves in 2014 versus 2013 were due to lower silver prices and depletion of the deposit through production, partially offset by inclusion of definition drilling information from 2014.
(5)
Lucky Friday ore reserve estimates were prepared by Terry DeVoe, Chief Geologist, and Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist, at the Lucky Friday unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
At the end of 2011, MSHA began a special impact inspection which resulted in an order to remove built-up cementitious material from the Silver Shaft, the primary access way from surface. In response, we submitted a plan to MSHA and received approval to remove the built-up cementitious material, and that work commenced in the first quarter of 2012. Once the shaft cleanup was complete down to the 4900 level, work on a haulage way bypassing the area at the 5900 level impacted by a rock burst commenced. Work on the Silver Shaft and the haulage way was completed in the first quarter of 2013. Underground access was temporarily limited as this work was being performed, and production was suspended from late 2011 until early 2013 as a result. Limited production commenced in the first quarter of 2013 and the mine has been at full production since September 2013.
During 2008, we initiated engineering, procurement and development activities relating to construction of #4 Shaft, which, upon completion, would provide access from the 4900 level down to the 8600 level. The project was temporarily placed on hold in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to then prevailing metals prices. However, detailed engineering, long lead time procurement, and other early-stage activities for the internal shaft project resumed in 2009. The #4 Shaft sinking activities were temporarily suspended until the rehabilitation work in the Silver Shaft, discussed above, was completed in early 2013. Activities relating to the #4 Shaft project as of December 31, 2015 have included engineering, detailed shaft design, excavation of the hoist room and off shaft development access to shaft facilities, installation of the hoist and head works, placement and receipt of orders for major equipment purchases, advancement of a geotechnical drill hole, 3,490 feet of vertical excavation, and other construction activities. Completion of #4 Shaft and associated development should allow us to mine mineralized material below our current workings and provide deeper platforms for exploration. Construction of #4 Shaft is expected to be completed in late 2016, and capital expenditures for the project are anticipated to total approximately $225 million, including approximately $205 million spent on the project through December 31, 2015. However, as further discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, there are a number of factors that could affect completion of the project.
During 2014, Lucky Friday continued implementation of an Environmental Management System and completed installation of remote stream gauging stations. These stations assist in performing daily monitoring activities in nearby receiving waters as required by our effluent discharge permit. Additionally, we have completed reclamation activities on the 26 acre Mine Tailing Impoundment Structure ("MTIS") 4 borrow site and achieved final stabilization of the site prior to onset of winter conditions. In 2015, closure plans and costs were updated and developed for MTIS 3 and 4. The closure cost for MTIS 3 is based on the closure design and cost estimate developed by a third-party firm in conjunction with cost estimates prepared by Lucky Friday personnel to complete necessary associated work to facilitate the closure of the impoundment. The closure cost for MTIS 4 is based on the most recent closure cap design and was prepared by a third-party firm. At December 31, 2015, an asset retirement obligation of approximately $5.2 million had been recorded for reclamation and closure costs. The current site closure plan also includes estimated costs for stabilization and clean-up of the mine and mill site and ongoing monitoring and maintenance. In 2016, we anticipate development of a revised plan that includes estimated costs for reclamation and closure of the mine and mill upon the end of the known mine life, and an update to the asset retirement obligation may be required upon completion of the plan.
The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $398.3 million as of December 31, 2015. The age of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2015.
At December 31, 2015, there were 318 employees at Lucky Friday. The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Service Workers International Union is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 249 hourly employees. As further discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, the current labor agreement expires on April 30, 2016.
Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
The Casa Berardi Unit
In 2013, as a result of our acquisition of Aurizon Mines Ltd. ("Aurizon"), we acquired the Casa Berardi mine, located 95 kilometers north of La Sarre in the Abitibi Region of north-western Quebec, Canada. The mining site is reached via a 38 kilometers all season gravel road which connects with the provincial and national paved roads grid. The property is limited to the west by the Quebec/Ontario border and covers parts of Casa Berardi, Dieppe, Raymond, D'Estrees, and Puiseaux townships. The project area extends east-west for more than 37 kilometers and reaches 3.5 kilometers in width. The Casa Berardi mine gold deposits are located along a 5 kilometer east-west mineralized corridor.
The Casa Berardi mine is located in the northern part of the Abitibi sub-province, a subdivision of the Superior province, within the Canadian Shield. The Casa Berardi area belongs to the Harricana-Turgeon Belt, which is a part of the North Volcanic Zone. The regional geology is characterized by a mixed assemblage of mafic volcanics, flysch-type sedimentary iron formations, and graphitic mudrocks that are limited by a large granodioritic to granitic batholith. Structurally, the area is enclosed in the Casa Berardi Tectonic Zone, a 15 kilometers wide corridor that can be traced over 200 kilometers. A network of east-west to east-southeast and west-northwest ductile high strain zones mainly follows the lithological contacts.
Casa Berardi can be classified as an Archean sedimentary-hosted orogenic gold deposit. Mineralization is found in large low-sulphide quartz veins developed against the Casa Berardi fault, and in disseminated sulfides and stockworks lenses associated with strongly carbonate-sericite altered ductile deformation zones obliquely oriented to the Casa Berardi fault, and extending a few hundred metres on both sides of the fault following northwest and northeast orientations. Gold mineralization emplacement was coeval with the fault`s evolution and shows a strong structural control and vertical extension, even if other factors such as the nature of some host rocks and lithological contacts seem to have favored gold deposition.
The Casa Berardi Fault is defined by a stratigraphic contact between a graphite-rich sediment sequence at the base of the Taïbi domain, a northern continuous intermediary fragmental volcanic unit, and a southern polymictic conglomerate unit. The mineralization system is composed of large, low-sulfide quartz veins and low-grade stockworks and carbonate-mica replacement zones forming in the West Mine and Principale area. On the north side of the Fault, a thick sequence of very homogeneous wacke belonging to the Taïbi Group is affected by an amphibolites metamorphic grade. One kilometer further north is the easterly elongated Recher batholith, which is part of the north-western boundary of the Abitibi greenstone belt.
Aurizon acquired the claims, leases and infrastructure comprising the Casa Berardi mine project in 1998 from TVX Gold Inc. Aurizon engaged in exploration programs beginning in 1998, and production began in late 2006.
The nearest commercial airport to the Casa Berardi mine is located at Rouyn-Noranda. La Sarre can be reached from Rouyn-Noranda via provincial roads 101 and 111. The 38 kilometer all-season gravel road to the mine site branches off from the paved Route des Conquérants road, which runs north from its intersection with road 393 north of La Sarre and passes through the village of Villebois. The branch is approximately 21 kilometers north of Villebois. A gravel road links the East Mine and the West Mine (which roughly represent the east-west boundaries of the mine), and a number of forestry roads provide access to the rest of the project area, from east and west.
Hecla Quebec Inc., Hecla’s wholly owned subsidiary, owns a 100% interest in the mineral titles and mining leases comprising the current Casa Berardi mine. The Casa Berardi mine is composed of 69 contiguous claims, covering 3,148.3 hectares (7,779.6 acres) and two mining leases covering 481.4 hectares (1,189.7 acres). The Casa Berardi property area totals 3,629.75 hectares (8,969.3 acres). All the claims and leases are in good standing. In 2007, Lake Shore Gold Corp. (“Lake Shore”) was granted an option to earn a 50% joint venture interest in a portion of the exploration property adjacent to the current Casa Berardi mine, by incurring exploration expenditures. To date, Lake Shore has not formally elected to earn in to the joint venture. The exploration property impacted by this agreement includes 227 claims adjacent to the east and west of the Casa Berardi mine, and covers an area of 28,738 acres.
We also hold a non-exclusive lease BNE 25938 for a sand and gravel pit, tailings lease 70218, and an additional 12 acres of land contiguous to mining lease BM 768 for rock waste material storage.
Under the Quebec Mining Act, claims are required to be renewed every two years. Statutorily prescribed minimum work commitments apply to all claims and leases. As of December 31, 2015, the claims and leases comprising part of the Casa Berardi mine have excess work credits of CAD$11.2 million.
The project consists of two shafts; the West Mine shaft reaching a vertical depth of 1096 meters, and the unused East Mine shaft located 4.3 kilometers to the east, and going down to a vertical depth of 379 meters. A system of declines and galleries connecting both shafts provide access and underground services to ore zones. The surface infrastructures include a 3,100 tons per day (over 1,100,000 tons per year) cyanidation processing mill, tailings impoundment areas, and other facilities and infrastructures. Power supply to the site is provided by a 55 kilometer, 120kV power line from the Hydro-Québec transformation station located in the town of Normétal. The map below illustrates the location and access to Casa Berardi:
Prior to Aurizon’s ownership, the Casa Berardi underground mine operated from 1988 to 1997, producing approximately 3.5 million tonnes of ore at an average gold grade of 7.1 grams/tonne from two sites, the West Mine and the East Mine. Aurizon’s operations from 2006 to 2012 produced approximately 4.1 million tonnes of ore at an average gold grade of 7.8 grams/tonne. A total of 1,625,500 ounces of gold were recovered by the previous operators prior to 2013. The mineral deposits cover a distance of more than 5.0 kilometers.
Casa Berardi is an underground trackless mine accessed by declines and a shaft, which produces approximately 2,260 tons of ore per day. The mining methods are longhole transversal stoping in 10 metres or more mineralization width, and longitudinal retreat stoping in narrower ore bodies. The mineralized zones put in reserves are of varying thickness, ranging from a few tenths of meters to 3 metres, which is the minimum mining width. Most of the hanging walls are sub-vertical (55° to 85°), with typically the graphitic Casa Berardi fault at the footwall.
In 2014, we completed a project initiated by Aurizon to deepen the West Mine Shaft and construct the associated shaft infrastructure, including loading pockets, shaft lining, services and steel. The deepened shaft is expected to lower operating costs in future years as the mining horizon deepens and should also eventually provide a platform for deeper exploration.
The gold recovery process is based on the CIL (carbon in leach) technology where gold is dissolved in a cyanide solution, and precipitated on activated carbon grains put in suspension. The product is doré bars poured in the mill’s refinery. Construction of the processing facility, consisting of a crushing plant, a 2,400 ton/day ore processing plant and tailings facility, was completed in 1988 by Inco Gold and Golden Knight Resources Inc., and ore processing began in September 1989, and during the next 9 years the mill processed 3.9 million tons at an average grade of 0.2 ounces per ton. Production at Casa Berardi was suspended in 1997 and the mill was put on care and maintenance until 2005, when major rehabilitation work was initiated by Aurizon Mines Ltd. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, upgrades including refurbishing of the crushing, grinding circuits, conveyors, and leach circuits, the addition of gravity circuits, and construction of an assay laboratory were performed, resulting in an increase of mill capacity to nearly 3,100 tons/day. The mill facility was commissioned in November of 2006 and the processing rate ramped up to reach commercial production in May of 2007. In 2015, total mill recovery of gold was approximately 87%.
Current reserves at the Casa Berardi mine comprise seven zones at the West Mine, spread over a moderate horizontal distance from each other and located at different mine elevations, plus open pit and underground areas at the East Mine. Zone 113, Lower Inter Zone, 118, 121,123, the Principal Zones (open pit and underground) and the East Mine (open pit and underground) comprise the bulk of the deposit tonnage. The zones are of varying thickness, ranging from over 50 meters to less than three meters, which is the minimum mining width. Most of the hanging walls are sub-vertical (55º to 85º) and exhibit similar wall characteristics with the exception of the Lower Inter Zone, which in a number of places has relatively shallow hanging wall configurations (less than 45º).
A transverse blasthole open stoping mining method was selected for the Casa Berardi mine to provide the desired production rate. Timely supply of both cemented and unconsolidated backfill plays a crucial role in controlling dilution and maintaining a short stoping cycle. We believe this mining method satisfies all of the geotechnical requirements and constraints and, as a non-entry mining method, has proven to be safe and reliable in similar operations.
A very small part of the mineral reserves is planned for longitudinal sequencing, limited to the fringes of the small zones. Longitudinal methods have the advantage of lower waste development requirements; however, there is much less flexibility in sequencing and in access, should ground instabilities occur.
The transverse mining method is used in areas with wide mineralization (10 meters wide or more) and good access from nearby development. The blasthole longitudinal mining method will be used in areas with narrow mineralization, or long distances from development infrastructure.
In early 2016, we made the decision to move forward with construction of the East Mine Crown Pillar ("EMCP") open pit, which is situated between the East Mine and West Mine. We currently expect that the EMCP pit will produce ore by the end of 2016, with anticipated capital expenditures of approximately $39 million over the life of the mine, including approximately $19 million to be incurred in 2016. The EMCP pit, as currently designed, would be a smaller scale operation using conventional open pit mining methods, and is expected to run for approximately 5.5 years of production. The average amount of material to be moved every six month period is anticipated to be approximately 160,000 to 260,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
The Principale Zone open pit, as currently designed, would be mined using conventional open pit mining methods. The Principale Zone open pit is expected to run for approximately 4 full years of production. The average amount of material being moved every six month period is expected to approximate 450,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
The mine and mill complex were designed to process over 1,100,000 tons of ore per year at a rate of 3,100 tons per day. Difficult ground conditions and bottlenecks in stope preparation have limited underground production to levels below the designed capacity. In 2015, the mill processed approximately 844,090 tons, for an average of 2,313 tons per day. The current life of mine plan is based on an average milling rate of approximately 2,700 tons per day until 2017. From 2017 on, the mill capacity is expected to increase to about 3,100 tons per day for the remaining mine life. The increase in capacity is expected to allow for milling of mine ore from open pits, including the aforementioned EMCP pit.
Based on current ore reserve estimates, the known life of mine plan totals 12.4 million tons of ore grading 0.14 ounces of gold per ton, with production for approximately 11 years. The projected open pit production is anticipated to be used to support a planned expansion of processing operations to approximately 3,100 tons per day. Such throughput is planned to occur from late 2016 to 2025.
At Casa Berardi, in-stope drilling refines orebody shapes and gold grade distributions within the orebodies for mine planning. Underground definition drilling involves evaluating the down dip or down plunge projections of the existing ore zones, and exploration drilling evaluates similar trends but beyond currently defined mineralization. Exploration drilling also evaluates previously untested targets identified along major structural trends such as the Casa Berardi Fault and a number of structures or zones that may be mineralized. During 2015, up to seven drills operated underground to refine stope designs, upgrade and expand known mineralization to reserves and identify new mineralization in the 117, 118, 123, and 124 Zones. Drilling from the 550, 770, and 850 levels in the mine has identified multiple, stacked high-grade lenses of the 123 Zone that represent at least 1,800 feet of semi-continuous, down-dip mineralization with an average strike length of 425 feet. Surface and underground exploration drilling targeted the up and down plunge mineralization extensions of the 117, 124, Lower Inter and Northwest Zones.
The proposed 2016 underground in-stope and definition drill programs are expected to appraise the high grade ore shoots of the 113, 118, 123 and 124 Principal Zones. Surface and underground exploration drilling in 2016 is expected to evaluate extensions of the 100 South, Lower Inter, 117 and 124 Zones.
We expect the mine plan will continually be modified as new mineralization is discovered and upgraded to reserves.
The employees at Casa Berardi are employees of Hecla Quebec Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 535 employees at the Casa Berardi unit at December 31, 2015.
Hecla acquired Aurizon on June 1, 2013 for approximately CAD$740.8 million (US$714.5 million), and has operated the Casa Berardi mine since the acquisition. The net book value of the Casa Berardi unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $741.5 million as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, we have recorded a $5.5 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintain a surety bond as financial guarantee for future reclamation and closure work.
Information with respect to the Casa Berardi unit’s production, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce and proven and probable ore reserves for 2015, 2014 and 2013 is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from silver production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. The cutoff grade at Casa Berardi is assumed to be between 0.106 and 0.119 ounces per ton for underground reserves and between 0.009 and 0.023 ounces per ton for open pit reserves. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on prices of $1,100, $1,225 and $1,300 per gold ounce for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2015 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries for gold of approximately 86%.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2015 compared to 2014 and in 2014 compared to 2013 are a result of depletion of the deposit through production and a lower gold price assumption, offset by inclusion of definition drilling information.
(5)
Casa Berardi ore reserve estimates were prepared by Sylvain Picard, Chief Geologist, and Real Parent, Senior Resource Geologist, at the Casa Berardi unit. Casa Berardi resource estimates were reviewed by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
(6)
An independent review of the 2013 Casa Berardi reserve model was performed by Roscoe Postle Associates Inc.
The San Sebastian Unit
The San Sebastian mine is located approximately 60 miles northeast of the city of Durango, Mexico, on concessions acquired in 1999. Access to San Sebastian is via Mexico highway 40, approximately 6 miles east of Guadalupe Victoria, and then approximately 15 miles of paved rural road through the towns of Ignacio Allende and Emiliano Zapata.
Our concession holdings cover approximately 160 square miles, including the Francine vein, East Francine vein, Middle vein, North vein, and the Andrea vein and multiple outlying active exploration areas. Mineral concession titles are obtained and held under the laws of Mexico, and are valid for 50 years with the possibility of extending another 50 years. There are work assessment and tax requirements that are variable and increase with the time that the concession is held. The map below illustrates the location and access to San Sebastian:
Mineralization at the project occurs as low and intermediate sulfidation epithermal veins within the Saladillo valley area. Economically, the most important veins at the project are the Francine, East Francine, Middle and North veins located at the north end of the Saladillo valley and the Andrea vein located 4 miles to the south. The veins are hosted within a series of shales with interbedded fine-grained sandstones interpreted to belong to the Cretaceous Caracol Formation. Most of the veins strike to the west-northwest and vein dips vary from steep toward the west to shallow toward the east. True vein widths range from 5 to 30 feet, and the average true width of the veins in the district is 8 feet.
Mineralization occurs in an epithermal setting at various paleo-depths. High-grade gold and silver occur both in the very shallow epithermal environment in the upper 1,000 feet of the crust as well as in deep silver-gold-lead-zinc root zones of the system at depths between 2,000 and 3,500 feet below the paleo-water table. Hypogene minerals include sphalerite, galena, argentite, pyrite, chalcopyrite, native silver and gold in electrum. The veins are oxidized down to approximately 300 feet below surface and the oxidized portions of the veins contain limonite, hematite, silver halides and various copper carbonates. Matrix minerals include fine-grained to coarsely crystalline quartz bands and chlorite-quartz-adularia bands and late calcite fill. Mineralization within the vein structures is generally deposited in high-grade “shoots” bound both laterally and horizontally by sharp gradients in grade-thickness.
Hecla operated the San Sebastian underground mine from 2001 to 2005. The historical life-of-mine production from the Francine and Don Sergio veins over four years was 11.2 million ounces of silver and 155,937 ounces of gold. Access to both underground workings was through ramps from the surface connecting one or more levels. Ore was mined by the cut-and-fill stoping method and extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in trucks.
Recent exploration success on the Middle, North, and East Francine veins and completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment lead to the decision in the third quarter of 2015 to develop shallow open pit mines on those veins, with development commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. Ore production from the Middle and East Francine veins commenced late in the fourth quarter of 2015, and from the North vein in the first quarter of 2016. The pits are expected to extend to a maximum of approximately 270 feet in depth. Near-surface material is excavated, with drill and blast techniques used for deeper material. Ore production is anticipated to run for approximately 6 months at the East Francine and North veins and 16 months at the Middle vein. Total production from the three pits is anticipated to range from 7,000 to 29,000 tons of ore per month over approximately 16 months, with variable quantities of waste, for total ore production of approximately 270,000 tons. Production is achieved through excavating and drilling and blasting the shallow-dipping, high-grade silver veins which carry significant gold credits.
Run of mine ore is hauled in trucks by contractors to a processing facility near Velardeña, Durango, Mexico, which is located approximately 60 miles from the San Sebastian mine site. We previously owned the Velardeña mill, but now use it to process ore under a lease arrangement. Processing of ore from the open pits started in December 2015 and averaged approximately 300 tons per day over 22 days of operation, with recovery of approximately 90% silver and 89% gold. As of December 31, 2015, under the current lease term, we have the ability to use the mill through December 31, 2016, with the potential to extend the lease for up to two additional 6-month terms. The mill is a conventional leach, counter-current decantation and Merrill Crowe precipitation circuit capable of processing up to approximately 550 tons per day, depending on ore hardness. The ore is crushed in a two-staged crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw, a secondary cone crusher and a double-deck vibrating screen. The grinding circuit includes a primary ball mill and cyclone classifiers. The ground ore is thickened followed by agitated leaching and four stages of counter-current decantation to wash solubilized silver and gold from the pulp. The solution bearing silver and gold is clarified, deaerated and zinc dust added to precipitate silver and gold that is recovered in plate and frame filters. The precious metal precipitate is smelted and refined into doré, and is then shipped to a third-party refiner. Since construction of the mill in 1994, two leach tanks were added in 2001, a filter press was added in 2002, and the Merrill Crowe system and Autojet Filters were expanded and modified in 2012. In addition, rehabilitation of various components of the mill was completed in 2015 prior to the start of processing of the ore from the open pits.
There has been significant drilling success over the past two and a half years on the near-surface East Francine, Middle and North veins at the San Sebastian unit, leading to advancement to open pit mine production as discussed above. The East Francine, Andrea, Middle and North veins now define nearly 5.0 miles of mineralized strike length and are open along strike and at depth. The East Francine Vein has currently been traced for over 1,600 feet along strike and to 500 feet of depth. The Middle Vein has been traced for nearly 7,000 feet along strike and to a depth of over 1,000 feet. Shallow in-fill drilling of the Middle Vein confirmed the continuity of the vein mineralization. The North Vein has a mineralized trend that extends over 3,500 feet along strike and 700 feet to depth and remains open along strike in both directions and at depth.
Exploration drilling in 2016 is expected to concentrate on defining high grade mineralization deeper in the North Vein to parallel a mineralized zone at that depth in the Middle Vein. Drilling to the west of the current mineralization is expected to evaluate new vein targets identified by trenching and reverse circulation drilling in 2015.
At December 31, 2015, the net book value of the San Sebastian unit property and its associated plant and equipment was $4.7 million. Infrastructure includes a water supply system, maintenance shop, warehouse, laboratory, leased mill and related improvements, and various offices. Equipment and facilities are in good condition. As of December 31, 2015, $1.4 million has been accrued for reclamation and closure costs. All permits required for mining of the open pits and operation of the mill are in place.
There were a total of 58 employees at the San Sebastian unit as of December 31, 2015. These employees are not represented by a bargaining agent. We currently primarily use third-party contractors for mining and operation of the processing facility. The hourly employees of the lessor of the processing facility are represented the Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores Mineros, Metalúrgicos, Siderúrgicos y Similares de la República Mexicana (a Mexico national union) as bargaining agent.
Electric power is purchased from Comisiòn Federal de Electricidad (a Mexico federal electric company).
Information with respect to the San Sebastian unit’s production, average cost per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves are set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at San Sebastian, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at San Sebastian is assumed to be $100 per tonne. The average prices used for the San Sebastian unit were:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore . Metal recoveries vary by mine zone and ore grade. The 2015 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of between approximately 80% and 92% for silver and between approximately 91% and 93% for gold.
(4)
San Sebastian ore reserve estimates were prepared by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited, and reviewed by Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
Item 3.