Item 2. Properties
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
Various of our subsidiaries collectively own 100% of the Greens Creek mine, located on Admiralty Island near Juneau in Southeast Alaska. Admiralty Island is accessed by boat, float plane, or helicopter. On the island, the mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by 13 miles of all-weather gravel roads. The Greens Creek mine has been in production since 1989, with a temporary care and maintenance period from April 1993 through July 1996. Since the start of production, Greens Creek has been owned and operated through various joint venture arrangements. For approximately 15 years prior to April 16, 2008, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek. On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a 70.3% interest in the Greens Creek mine, and which previously operated the mine, for approximately $758.5 million. The acquisition gave various of our subsidiaries control collectively of 100% of the Greens Creek mine.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies within the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 639 unpatented lode mining claims, 58 patented lode claims and one patented mill site. In addition, the Greens Creek site includes properties under lease from the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") for a road right-of-way, mine portal and mill site access, camp site, mine waste area and tailings impoundment. The USFS leases have varying expiration terms. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,301 acres of federal land acquired through a land exchange with the USFS. We are currently exploring, but not mining, on such federal land.
The project consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities, a ferry dock, and other related infrastructure. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs most often along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the U.S. Forest Service and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,500 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Any production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to a federal royalty included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on any production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no production triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than the benchmark, and 0.75% if the value is equal to or less than the benchmark. The benchmark of $120 per ton is adjusted annually according to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Implicit Price Deflator until the year 2016, and at December 31, 2014, was at approximately $157 per ton when applying the latest GDP Implicit Price Deflator.
Greens Creek is an underground mine accessed by a ramp from surface which produces approximately 2,100 to 2,300 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The Greens Creek ore processing facility includes a SAG/ball mill grinding circuit to grind the run of mine ore to liberate the minerals and produce a slurry suitable for differential flotation of mineral concentrates. A gravity circuit recovers free gold that exists as electrum, a gold/silver alloy in the ore. Doré and gravity concentrates are produced from this circuit prior to flotation. Three flotation concentrates are produced: a lead concentrate which contains most of the silver recovered; a zinc concentrate which is low in precious metals content; and a zinc-rich bulk concentrate that contains gold, silver, zinc, and lead and must be marketed to an imperial smelter. In 2014, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,236 tons per day and total mill recovery was approximately 72% silver, 87% zinc, 77% lead and 63% gold. The doré is further refined by precious metal refiners and sold to banks, and the three concentrate products are sold to a number of major smelters and brokers worldwide. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the significant customers for Greens Creek’s products. Concentrates are shipped from the Hawk Inlet marine terminal about nine miles from the mill.
Underground exploration activities at the Greens Creek unit during 2014 focused on continued expansion of the Deep 200 South mineralized zone along trend of the already-existing mineralization to the south, at the NWW, and Gallagher Fault Block zones. Definition drilling of the Deep 200 South, NWW, and West Wall zones resulted in additions to reserves. The 2014 surface exploration program focused on the Killer Creek area and consisted of 23,214 feet of core drilling in 5 holes. Drilling has confirmed and expanded on a broad, locally high-grade copper, silver and zinc system associated with stockwork veining intersected in the 2013 exploration program. At depth, a number of holes intersected densely pyritic laminated argillite that thickened with depth and were anomalous in silver and zinc. This may imply the existence of another mine horizon which could host another ore deposit at Killer Creek and elsewhere on the property. Objectives for the 2015 season are to further evaluate the south Killer Creek and High Sore areas, both of which are less than one mile from the current Greens Creek mine. All exploration efforts in 2015 are expected to be concentrated on near mine targets with the goal of increasing known mineralization at the Greens Creek mine.
Electricity for the Greens Creek unit is provided through the purchase of surplus hydroelectric power from Alaska Electric Light and Power Company (“AEL&P”), to the extent it is available after the power needs of Juneau and the surrounding area are met. When weather conditions are not favorable to maintain lake water levels sufficient for all of the power needs at Greens Creek to be met by available hydroelectric power, the mine relies on power provided by on-site diesel generators.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 415 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2014.
As of December 31, 2014, we have recorded a $39.2 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintained a $68.9 million reclamation and long-term water treatment bond for Greens Creek as of December 31, 2014. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $651 million as of December 31, 2014.
Based on current ore reserve estimates, the currently known remaining mine life at Greens Creek is 9 years. Information with respect to production, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Estimates of proven and probable ore reserves for the Greens Creek unit as of December 2014, 2013 and 2012 are calculated and reviewed in-house and are derived from successive generations of reserve and feasibility analyses for different areas of the mine, using a separate assessment of metals prices for each year. The average prices used for the Greens Creek unit were:
(3)
Ore reserves represent in-place material, diluted and adjusted for expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries of ore reserve grades differ with ore grades, and the 2014 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 72% for silver, 63% for gold, 76% for zinc and 69% for lead.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2014 versus 2013 are due to the addition of data from new drill holes, partially offset by continued depletion of the deposit through production and lower metals price assumptions. The changes in reserves in 2013 versus 2012 were due to continued depletion of the deposit through production and lower metals price assumptions, partially offset by the addition of data from new drill holes and development work.
(5)
Probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. The proven reserves reported for Greens Creek for 2014 represents stockpiled ore. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by orebody and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Greens Creek, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade was $190 per ton NSR.
(6)
Greens Creek ore reserve estimates were prepared by Robert Callaghan, Chief Geologist, and Kerry Lear, Senior Resource Geologist (contractor) at the Greens Creek unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
(7)
An independent review by Amec Foster Wheeler E&C, Inc. occurred in 2012. The review included the 2012 model containing a portion of the 200 South zone that is included in reserves.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday mine, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. The mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by paved roads from U.S. Interstate 90. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The ore body is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of ore bodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous ore body in and along the Lucky Friday vein. The major part of the ore body has extended from 1,200 feet to 6,020 feet below surface.
The second ore-bearing structure, known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, or Gold Hunter, has been mined since 1997 pursuant to an operating agreement with Silver Hunter Mining Company (“Silver Hunter”), our wholly owned subsidiary. During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. At approximately 4,900 feet below surface, the Gold Hunter veins are hosted in a 200-foot thick siliceous lens within the Wallace Formation that transitions to the St. Regis Formation below 5,900 feet. The veins are sub-parallel, and are numbered consecutively from the hanging wall of the favorable horizon to the footwall. The strike of the vein system is west-northwest with a dip of 85 degrees to the south. The 30-vein, which has demonstrated to contain higher silver grades, represents approximately 67% of our current proven and probable ore reserve tonnages, while the remaining 33% of our reserves are contained in various intermediate veins having lower silver grades than 30-vein. While the veins share many characteristics with the Lucky Friday vein, the Gold Hunter area possesses some mineralogical and rock mechanics differences that make it more favorable to mine at this time. On November 6, 2008, we, through Silver Hunter, completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company, which held an interest in the Gold Hunter property. The acquisition included all future interests or royalty obligations to Independence and the mining claims pertaining to the operating agreement with Hecla Limited that was assigned to Silver Hunter.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the ore body. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
Ore at the Lucky Friday is processed using a conventional lead/zinc flotation flowsheet, with process control guided by a real-time, on-line analyzer. Run of mine ore is crushed in a conventional three stage crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw crusher, and a secondary crushing circuit, and tertiary cone crushing stage. Crushed ore is ground in a ball mill, and the ground slurry reports to the lead flotation circuit. The lead circuit tailings report to the zinc flotation circuit. Lead and zinc concentrates are thickened and filtered, and final concentrate products are shipped to smelters for final processing. Current processing capacity of the Lucky Friday facility is approximately 1,000 tons per day. As discussed further below, production at Lucky Friday was temporarily suspended during 2012 and then ramped up during 2013 to historical levels. Lucky Friday reached full production in late September 2013, averaging 837 tons milled per day. In 2014, production increased to 847 tons per day, and total mill recovery was approximately 95% silver, 94% lead, and 78% zinc. All lead and zinc concentrate production during 2014 was shipped to Teck Cominco Limited's smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Underground exploration activities have been suspended at the Lucky Friday unit since 2013, with a plan to resume exploration once deeper drill stations become available with the advance of the #4 Shaft (discussed below). Definition drilling from the 6500 level #4 shaft drill platform completed 22 holes, for a total footage of 27,157 feet, during 2014. This drilling was all within the central portion of the vein system and in-fill drilled for upgrades in the quality of the mineralized material and other resources between the 6600 and 7900 levels.
Based on current estimates of reserves, mineralized material, and other resources, the currently expected mine life at the Lucky Friday is approximately 28 years. Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Costs, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at the Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at the Lucky Friday ranges from $129 per ton NSR to $149 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. Total mill recoveries are expected to be 95% for silver, 95% for lead and 90% for zinc.
(4)
The change in reserves in 2014 from 2013 was because of lower silver prices and depletion of the deposit through production, partially offset by inclusion of definition drilling information from 2014. The changes in reserves in 2013 versus 2012 were due to inclusion of definition drilling information from 2013 and the advance of mine design and planning at the lower and upper limits of the mine, partially offset by depletion of the deposit through production and lower metals price assumptions.
(5)
Lucky Friday ore reserve estimates were prepared by Terry DeVoe, Chief Geologist, and Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist, at the Lucky Friday unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
(6)
An independent audit by Roscoe Postle Associates Inc. was completed in 2013 for the 2012 reserve model at the Lucky Friday mine.
At the end of 2011, MSHA began a special impact inspection which resulted in an order to remove built-up cementitious material from the Silver Shaft, the primary access way from surface. In response, we submitted a plan to MSHA and received approval to remove the built-up cementitious material, and that work commenced in the first quarter of 2012. Once the shaft cleanup was complete down to the 4900 level, work on a haulage way bypassing the area at 5900 level impacted by a rock burst commenced. Work on the Silver Shaft and the haulage way was completed in the first quarter of 2013. Underground access was temporarily limited as this work was being performed, and production was suspended from late 2011 until early 2013 as a result. Limited production commenced in the first quarter of 2013 and the mine has been at full production since September 2013.
During 2008, we initiated engineering, procurement and development activities relating to construction of #4 Shaft, which, upon completion, would provide access from the 4900 level down to the 8800 level. The project was temporarily placed on hold in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to then prevailing metals prices. However, detailed engineering, long lead time procurement, and other early-stage activities for the internal shaft project resumed in 2009. #4 Shaft sinking activities were temporarily suspended until the rehabilitation work in the Silver Shaft, discussed above, was completed in early 2013. Activities relating to the #4 Shaft project as of December 31, 2014 have included engineering, detailed shaft design, excavation of the hoist room and off shaft development access to shaft facilities, installation of the hoist and head works, placement and receipt of orders for major equipment purchases, advancement of a geotechnical drill hole, 2,828 feet of vertical excavation, and other construction activities. Upon completion, #4 Shaft should allow us to mine mineralized material below our current workings and provide deeper platforms for exploration. Construction of #4 Shaft is expected to be completed in 2016, and capital expenditures for the project are anticipated to total approximately $215 million, including approximately $165 million spent on the project through December 31, 2014. However, there are a number of factors that could affect completion of the project, including a significant decline in metals prices, a reduction in available cash or credit, increased regulatory burden, or a significant increase in operating or capital costs. An increase in the capital cost could potentially require us to suspend or change the scope of the project or access additional capital though debt financing, the sale of securities, or other external sources. This additional financing could be costly or unavailable.
During 2014, Lucky Friday began implementing an Environmental Management System and completed installation of remote stream gauging stations. These stations assist in performing daily monitoring activities in nearby receiving waters as required by our effluent discharge permit. Additionally, we have completed reclamation activities on the 26 acre Pond 4 borrow site and achieved final stabilization of the site prior to onset of winter conditions. Lastly, Lucky Friday has developed a design for closure of tailings pond 3 which will be submitted to Idaho Department of Water Resources for review in early 2015 with subsequent construction planned. At December 31, 2014, an asset retirement obligation of approximately $1.1 million had been recorded for reclamation and closure costs.
The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $349.8 million as of December 31, 2014. The age of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2014.
At December 31, 2014, there were 307 employees at Lucky Friday. The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Service Workers International Union is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 239 hourly employees. The current labor agreement expires on April 30, 2016. As a result of the requirement to remove built-up cementitious material from the Silver Shaft, which limited underground access and temporarily suspended production, Hecla Limited laid off 121 employees in January 2012, with approximately 25 of those employees accepting temporary positions at other Hecla operations. Lucky Friday completed the recall/rehire of the laid off employees in January 2013.
Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
The Casa Berardi Unit
In 2013, as a result of our acquisition of Aurizon Mines Ltd. ("Aurizon"), we acquired the Casa Berardi mine, located 95 kilometers north of La Sarre in the Abitibi Region of Western Quebec, Canada. The mining site is reached via a 38 kilometers all season gravel road which connects with the provincial and national paved roads grid. The property is limited to the west by the Quebec/Ontario border and covers parts of Casa Berardi, Dieppe, Raymond, D'Estrees, and Puiseaux townships. The project area extends east-west for more than 37 kilometers and reaches 3.5 kilometers in width. The Casa Berardi mine gold deposits are located along a 5 kilometer east-west mineralized corridor.
The Casa Berardi mine is located in the northern part of the Abitibi sub-province, a subdivision of the Superior province, within the Canadian Shield. The Casa Berardi area belongs to the Harricana-Turgeon Belt, which is a part of the North Volcanic Zone. The regional geology is characterized by a mixed assemblage of mafic volcanics, flysch-type sedimentary iron formations, and graphitic mudrocks that are limited by a large granodioritic to granitic batholith. Structurally, the area is enclosed in the Casa Berardi Tectonic Zone, a 15 kilometers wide corridor that can be traced over 200 kilometers. A network of east-west to east-southeast and west-northwest ductile high strain zones mainly follows the lithological contacts.
Casa Berardi can be classified as an Archean sedimentary-hosted orogenic gold deposit. Mineralization is found in large low-sulphide quartz veins developed against the Casa Berardi fault, and in disseminated sulfides and stockworks lenses associated with strongly carbonate-sericite altered ductile deformation zones obliquely oriented to the Casa Berardi fault, and extending a few hundred metres on both sides of the fault following northwest and northeast orientations. Gold mineralization emplacement was coeval with the fault`s evolution and shows a strong structural control and vertical extension, even if other factors such as the nature of some host rocks and lithological contacts seem to have favored gold deposition.
The Casa Berardi Fault is defined by a stratigraphic contact between a graphite-rich sediment sequence at the base of the Taïbi domain, a northern continuous intermediary fragmental volcanic unit, and a southern polymictic conglomerate unit. The mineralization system is composed of large, low-sulfide quartz veins and low-grade stockworks and carbonate-mica replacement zones forming in the West Mine and Principale area. On the north side of the Fault, a thick sequence of very homogeneous wacke belonging to the Taïbi Group is affected by an amphibolites metamorphic grade. One kilometer further north is the easterly elongated Recher batholith, which is part of the north-western boundary of the Abitibi greenstone belt.
Aurizon acquired the claims, leases and infrastructure comprising the Casa Berardi mine project in 1998 from TVX Gold Inc. Aurizon engaged in exploration programs beginning in 1998, and production began in late 2006.
The nearest commercial airport to the Casa Berardi mine is located at Rouyn-Noranda. La Sarre can be reached from Rouyn-Noranda via provincial roads 101 and 111. The 38 kilometer all-season gravel road to the mine site branches off from the paved Route des Conquérants road, which runs north from its intersection with road 393 north of La Sarre and passes through the village of Villebois. The branch is approximately 21 kilometers north of Villebois. A gravel road links the East Mine and the West Mine (which roughly represent the east-west boundaries of the mine), and a number of forestry roads provide access to the rest of the project area, from east and west.
Hecla acquired Aurizon on June 1, 2013 for approximately CAD$740.8 million (US$714.5 million), and has operated the Casa Berardi mine since the acquisition. The net book value of the Casa Berardi unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $749.7 million as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we have recorded a $6.2 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintained a letter of credit as financial guarantee for future reclamation and closure work.
Hecla’s wholly owned subsidiary, Hecla Quebec Inc., owns a 100% interest in the mineral titles and mining leases that comprise the Casa Berardi mine. The Casa Berardi mine is composed of 296 contiguous designated claims, covering a total area of approximately 36,660 acres, and two mining leases, BM 768 and BM 833, covering areas of 981 acres and 208 acres, respectively. The total property area is 37,849 acres. We believe the claims and mining leases that comprise the Casa Berardi mine are in good standing. Mining lease 768 expires in 2018 and mining lease 833 expires in 2015; however, each lease is subject to renewal for three 10-year terms, which we expect to occur following an administrative procedure with the Quebec government in accordance with the Quebec Mining Act. In 2007, Lake Shore Gold Corp. (“Lake Shore”) was granted an option to earn a 50% joint venture interest in most of the property, excluding the two mining leases (which represent all of the mine’s current production), by incurring exploration expenditures. To date, Lake Shore has not elected to earn in to the joint venture. The part of the property impacted by this agreement, which is all exploration property and not production, includes 227 claims adjacent to the east and west of the Casa Berardi mine, and covers an area of 11,630 hectares.
We also hold a non-exclusive lease BNE 25938 for a sand and gravel pit, tailings lease 70218, and an additional 12 acres of land contiguous to mining lease BM 768 for rock waste material storage.
Under the Quebec Mining Act, claims are required to be renewed every two years. Statutorily prescribed minimum work commitments apply to all claims and leases. As of December 31, 2014, the claims and leases comprising part of the Casa Berardi mine have excess work credits of CAD$11.9 million.
The project consists of two shafts; the West Mine shaft reaching a vertical depth of 1096 meters, and the unused East Mine shaft located 4.3 kilometers to the east, and going down to a vertical depth of 379 meters. A system of declines and galleries connecting both shafts provide access and underground services to ore zones. The surface infrastructures include a 3,100 tons per day (over 1,100,000 tons per year) cyanidation processing mill, tailings impoundment areas, and other facilities and infrastructures. Power supply to the site is provided by a 55 kilometer, 120kV power line from the Hydro-Québec transformation station located in the town of Normétal. The map below illustrates the location and access to Casa Berardi:
Prior to Aurizon’s ownership, the Casa Berardi underground mine operated from 1988 to 1997, producing approximately 3.5 million tonnes of ore at an average gold grade of 7.1 grams/tonne from two sites, the West Mine and the East Mine. Aurizon’s operations from 2006 to 2012 produced approximately 4.1 million tonnes of ore at an average gold grade of 7.8 grams/tonne. A total of 1,625,500 ounces of gold were recovered by the previous operators prior to 2013. The mineral deposits cover a distance of more than 5.0 kilometers.
Casa Berardi is an underground trackless mine accessed by declines and a shaft, which produces approximately 2,260 tons of ore per day. The mining methods are longhole transversal stoping in 10 metres or more mineralization width, and longitudinal retreat stoping in narrower ore bodies. The mineralized zones put in reserves are of varying thickness, ranging from a few tens of meters to 3 metres, which is the minimum mining width. Most of the hanging walls are sub-vertical (55° to 85°), with typically the graphitic Casa Berardi fault at the footwall.
In 2014, we completed a project initiated by Aurizon to deepen the West Mine Shaft and construct the associated shaft infrastructure, including loading pockets, shaft lining, services and steel. The deepened shaft is expected to lower operating costs in future years as the mining horizon deepens and should also eventually provide a platform for deeper exploration.
The gold recovery process is based on the CIL (carbon in leach) technology where gold is dissolved in a cyanide solution, and precipitated on activated carbon grains put in suspension. The product is doré bars poured in the mill’s refinery. In 2014, total mill recovery of gold was approximately 90%.
Current reserves at the Casa Berardi mine comprise eight zones at the West Mine, spread over a moderate horizontal distance from each other and located at different mine elevations, plus open pit and underground areas at the East Mine. Zone 113, Lower Inter Zone, 118-123 Zones, Principale Zones (open pit and underground) and the East Mine comprise the bulk of the deposit tonnage. The zones are of varying thickness, ranging from over 50 meters to less than three meters, which is the minimum mining width. Most of the hanging walls are sub-vertical (55º to 85º) and exhibit similar wall characteristics with the exception of the Lower Inter Zone, which in a number of places has relatively shallow hanging wall configurations (less than 45º).
A transverse blasthole open stoping mining method was selected for the Casa Berardi mine to provide the desired production rate. Timely supply of both cemented and unconsolidated backfill plays a crucial role in controlling dilution and maintaining a short stoping cycle. We believe this mining method satisfies all of the geotechnical requirements and constraints and, as a non-entry mining method, has proven to be safe and reliable in similar operations.
A very small part of the mineral reserves is planned for longitudinal sequencing, limited to the fringes of the small zones. Longitudinal methods have the advantage of lower waste development requirements; however, there is much less flexibility in sequencing and in access, should ground instabilities occur.
The transverse mining method is used in areas with wide mineralization (10 meters wide or more) and good access from nearby development. The blasthole longitudinal mining method will be used in areas with narrow mineralization, or long distances from development infrastructure.
The East Mine Crown Pillar ("East Mine") open pit, as currently designed, would be a smaller scale operation using conventional open pit mining methods. The East Mine open pit is expected to run for approximately 3 years of production. The average amount of material to be moved every six month period is anticipated to be approximately 150,000 to 200,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
The Principale Zone open pit, as currently designed, would be mined using conventional open pit mining methods. The Principale Zone open pit is expected to run for slightly over 3 full years of production. The average amount of material being moved every six month period is expected to approximate 550,000 to 610,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
The mine and mill complex were designed to process over 1,100,000 tons of ore per year at a rate of 3,100 tons per day. Difficult ground conditions and bottlenecks in stope preparation have limited underground production to levels below the designed capacity. In 2014, the mill processed approximately 827,580 tons, for an average of 2,267 tons per day. The current life of mine plan is based on an average milling rate of 2,500 tons per day until 2017. From 2017 on, the mill capacity is expected to increase to 3,400 tons per day for the remaining mine life. The increase in capacity is expected to allow for milling of mine ore from open pits.
Based on current ore reserve estimates, the known life of mine plan totals 12.5 million tons of ore grading 0.13 ounces of gold per ton, with production for approximately 10 years. The projected open pit production is anticipated to be used to support a planned expansion of processing operations to approximately 3,400 tons per day. Such throughput is planned to occur from 2017 to 2024.
At Casa Berardi in-stope drilling refines orebody shapes and gold grade distributions within the orebodies for mine planning. Underground definition drilling involves evaluating the down dip or down plunge projections of our existing ore zones, and exploration drilling evaluates similar trends but beyond currently defined mineralization. Exploration drilling also evaluates previously untested targets identified along major structural trends such as the Casa Berardi Fault and a number of structures or zones that may be mineralized. During 2014, a total of five drills operated underground to refine current resources and stope designs in the 113, 117, 118, 123, and 124 Zones. Surface and underground exploration drilling targeted the up and down plunge mineralization extensions of the 124 and 140 Zones.
The proposed 2015 underground in-stope and definition drill programs are expected to appraise the Southwest and Lower Inter vein systems and high grade ore shoots of the 113, 123 and 124 Zones. Underground exploration drilling is expected to evaluate extensions of the 113, 118, 123 (Golden Pond), 124 and 157 (East Mine) Zones. Surface exploration drilling is expected to concentrate on the deeper, down plunge extensions of the 123, 124 and 157 Zones located close to the East Mine underground infrastructure.
We expect the mine plan will continually be modified as new mineralization is discovered and upgraded to reserves.
The employees at Casa Berardi are employees of Hecla Quebec Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 542 employees at the Casa Berardi unit at December 31, 2014.
Information with respect to the Casa Berardi unit’s production, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce and proven and probable ore reserves for 2014 and 2013 is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from silver production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce represents a measurement that is not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) to Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Casa Berardi, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Casa Berardi is assumed to be 0.116 ounces per ton for underground reserves and between 0.009 and 0.023 ounces per ton for open pit reserves. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on prices of $1,225 and $1,300 per gold ounce for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. Total mill recoveries for gold are expected to be approximately 90%.
(4)
The change in reserves in 2014 compared to 2013 is a result of depletion of the deposit through production and a lower gold price assumption, offset by inclusion of definition drilling information from 2014.
(5)
Casa Berardi ore reserve estimates were prepared by Sylvain Picard, Chief Geologist, and Real Parent, Senior Resource Geologist, at the Casa Berardi unit. Casa Berardi resource estimates were reviewed by Keith Blair, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
(6)
An independent review of the 2013 Casa Berardi reserve model was performed by Roscoe Postle Associates Inc.
Item 3.