Item 2. Property Descriptions
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The La Camorra Unit
The La Camorra unit refers to our Venezuelan operating properties and exploration projects, which are discussed below. For additional information with regard to our Venezuelan operating properties, see the La Camorra Segment in MD&A. At the present time, the La Camorra mine is operating and development of Mina Isidora is continuing. Limited production of ore in 2005 from Mina Isidora was achieved and Mina Isidora will be ramping up to a full production rate in mid-2006. All ore from Mina Isidora is shipped to the mill at the La Camorra mine for processing.
The mill uses a conventional carbon-in-leach process. The ore is crushed with a three-stage system consisting of a primary jaw crusher with secondary and tertiary cone crusher with a multi-deck vibrating screen. The grinding circuit includes a primary and a secondary ball mill. The ground ore is mixed with a cyanide solution and clarified, followed by countercurrent carbon-in-leach gold adsorption. The carbon is then stripped and the gold recovered and poured into gold bars for shipment to a third-party refiner. Mill recovery averages approximately 95%.
All mill equipment, infrastructure and facilities are in good condition. The mill was constructed in 1994 and has been periodically upgraded. The mill is capable of processing approximately 700 tons per day.
During 2004, we started a custom-milling program for small mining cooperatives working in the area of Mina Isidora. The cooperatives sell their ore to us for further processing at our La Camorra mill. See Custom Milling Business below.
Information with respect to the La Camorra unit’s production and average costs per ounce of gold produced is set forth in the table below.
(1)
During 2005, 2004 and 2003, 17,252, 24,264 and 15,155 tons milled, respectively, and 4,602, 4,789 and 3,049 gold ounces produced were generated from our custom milling business and other purchases of ore from third parties not mined at La Camorra.
(2)
Cash costs per ounce of gold represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of gold provide an indicator of profitability and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7, MD&A, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
The La Camorra Mine
The La Camorra mine is located approximately 180 miles southeast of Puerto Ordaz in the eastern Venezuelan State of Bolivar. The mine is accessed via a gravel road that we maintain and is six miles east of state highway 10, which is a paved two-lane road running from Upata south to the Brazilian border.
We acquired the La Camorra mine in 1999 from Monarch Resources Investments Limited (“Monarch”), and it is 100% owned by us through our Venezuelan subsidiary, Minera Hecla Venezolana, C.A. (“MHV”). The purchase agreement includes a provision to pay Monarch a net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty on production exceeding a cumulative total of 600,000 ounces of gold from the properties acquired in Venezuela from Monarch. The royalty is based on a sliding scale that is dependent on the price of gold. When the gold price is below $300 per troy ounce, there is no royalty; when the price is between $300.00 and $399.99 per troy ounce the royalty is 1%; when the price is between $400.00 and $499.99 per troy ounce, the royalty is 2%; and when the price is $500.00 and above, the royalty is 3%. The 600,000 ounce production milestone was reached during the second quarter of 2004. Gold production since that time has been subject to the provisions of the royalty agreement, the payments of which have been offset by our costs incurred related to on-going tax litigation, as discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The La Camorra mine is located on an exploration concession granted by the Ministry of Energy and Mines in 1964 that has been converted to a fifty-year exploitation license. The mine is a high-grade underground gold mine that exploits two shear-zone hosted quartz veins known as the Main zone and the Betzy vein. It lies in the Botanamo greenstone belt of the Precambrian Guayana Shield and is hosted by the Caballape Group of volcanoclastic rocks. The formations most likely date from Archean to Proterozoic in age and consist primarily of intermediate volcanics with subordinate metasediments. Gold mineralization at La Camorra is confined to narrow, near vertical quartz veins hosted in an east-west trending, left-lateral shear zone. Most economic mineralization in the La Camorra veins occur in distinct “ore shoots.” Gold occurs both as free particles in quartz and attached to, or included in, pyrite. Locally, gold is also seen on chloritic partings.
At the end of 2005, the principal working levels of the La Camorra mine lay between the elevations of 400 and 560 meters below sea level. The proven and probable reserves extend to the 610-meter elevation and exploration drill holes have intersected gold mineralization below the current reserve limits at the 950-meter level.
At the end of 2003, the mine had been developed to the 480-meter level. Engineering studies undertaken in 2002 and 2003 indicated that the combination of ventilation and haulage requirements and logistics would make mining below the 500-meter level extremely difficult and marginally economic without the development of a shaft. In August 2003, the board of directors approved the development of a production shaft at the La Camorra mine based on the long lead-time necessary to construct the shaft and to develop further ore reserves. The production shaft is complete and was commissioned during the second half of 2005. The shaft loading station is at the 405-meter level and is 550 meters below sea level.
Access to the underground workings at the La Camorra mine is made via the shaft and a ramp from the surface excavated at a -15% grade and connecting numerous levels. The main access ramp has been developed to a depth of approximately 578 meters below sea level.
Ore is mined primarily by longhole stoping and is extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in mine haulage trucks and during the second half of 2005, the production shaft. Sub-economic material is used to backfill and stabilize mined-out stopes. The mine is currently producing approximately 450 tons of ore per day.
Site infrastructure, equipment and facilities are in good condition and includes a water supply system, maintenance shop, warehouse, living quarters, a dining facility, administration building and a National Guard post. We also share a housing facility located near the town of El Callao with units for approximately 50 families. Mine electric power is purchased from Eleoriente (a state-owned electric company). Diesel-powered electric generators are available on-site for operation of critical equipment during power outages. At December 31, 2005, the net book value of the La Camorra mine property and its associated plant and equipment was approximately $32.7 million.
Our reclamation plan has been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Planned activities include regrading and revegetation of disturbed areas. The reclamation and closure accrual as of December 31, 2005, was $2.2 million.
At December 31, 2005, there were 401 hourly and 118 salaried employees associated with the La Camorra mine. The hourly employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the contract for which will expire in October 2006. In addition, there were 32 employees contracted to fill-in for vacation and absentee purposes, and 31 employees at the administrative office in Puerto Ordaz as of December 31, 2005.
Information with respect to the La Camorra mine’s proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the table below.
(1)
The Company’s estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on a gold price of $400, $350 and $335 per ounce, respectively, in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. An independent audit of the 2004 year-end reserves at the La Camorra mine was completed in 2005 by Roscoe Postle Associates Inc. (“RPA”). Following the audit, RPA made several recommendations for our proven and probable reserve calculation, all of which we reviewed and addressed in the 2005 proven and probable reserves, which were not subject to audit by RPA.
(2)
The 2005 year-end proven and probable reserves decrease in tonnage and grade, as well as an associated decrease in ounces when compared to the 2004 year-end proven and probable reserves, are a result of a combination of new drill data and underground sampling information, a revision of ore shoot limits and the depletion of reserves by mining.
(3)
The 2004 year-end reserves show an increase in tonnage and decrease in grade resulting in a decrease in ounces when compared to the 2003 year-end reserves. The changes are a result of a combination of new drill data and underground sampling information, a revision of ore shoot limits and the increase in mine dilution being applied to the Betzy vein material together with a depletion of reserves by mining.
(4)
Proven and probable ore reserves at the La Camorra mine are based on drill spacing of 30 to 50 meters and closely spaced chip sample information. Cutoff grade assumptions are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and cash operating costs. The cutoff grade at La Camorra is 14 grams of gold per tonne.
In addition, we have the exploration rights to approximately 9,500 hectares (36-square miles) adjacent to the La Camorra mine. This property is controlled through eight different contracts with the Venezuelan state-owned development company, Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana, as well as five different concessions with the Ministry of Basic Industries and Mines (formerly the Ministry of Energy and Mines). The contracts and concessions were granted at various times with expiration dates between 2011 and 2020, and most are renewable for a period of 10 to 20 years.
In 2005, proven and probable reserves decreased at the La Camorra mine as the deposit exhibited lower ore grades. No significant exploration results were returned from drilling on the La Camorra veins during 2005. In 2006, exploration activity will focus on strike extensions to the Main and Betsy veins and other known veins on the concession and on the properties surrounding the mine, once the appropriate permits are granted.
The Block B Concessions
In March 2002, we acquired the Block B exploration and mining lease near El Callao in the Venezuelan State of Bolivar from CVG-Minerven, a Venezuelan government-owned gold mining company. The lease runs through March 2023. The area’s mining history dates back to the 1800s. Block B is a seven-square-mile property position in the El Callao gold mining district and contains many historic mines including the Chile, Laguna and Panama mines, which collectively produced over 1.6 million ounces of gold between 1921 and 1946.
Pursuant to the lease agreement, we will pay CVG-Minerven a royalty of 2% to 3% on production from Block B, based on production levels. The royalty terms are: (i) 2% if the price of gold is below $290 per ounce of refined gold during the month preceding payment; (ii) 2.5% if the price of gold is equal or greater than $290 and equal to or below $310 per ounce of refined gold during the month preceding payment; and (iii) 3% if the price of gold is greater than $310 per ounce of refined gold during the month preceding payment. As a result of limited production in 2005, $0.3 million in royalty expense was incurred. Prior to inception of production, we made lease payments of $30,000 in 2004 and $24,000 in 2003 to CVG-Minerven.
The El Callao area is accessed on a maintained, asphalt highway that runs from Puerto Ordaz, on the south side of the River Orinoco, through to Santa Elena on the Brazilian border. Overall good infrastructure exists and an 115kw electricity power line supplies the area predominantly populated by miners operating underground small-scale mines. The population of El Callao is approximately 25,000 people.
Geologically, the gold is found in shear-zone hosted quartz veins and stockworks in Proterozoic greenstone volcanics, primarily andesitic to basaltic lavas and pyroclastics. Gold occurs as free gold in quartz and is also commonly associated with coarse-grained pyrite. Upon acquisition, exploration began on the Chile vein system, which we believed to host high-grade gold mineralization. The Chile mine itself was an important gold producer that historically produced more than 550,000 ounces of gold at an average grade of over one ounce per ton. Since the mine shut down in the 1940s, two phases of exploration drilling were undertaken prior to our work in the Block B lease area, one in the 1960s, and more recent drill testing in the 1980s that encountered high grades west of the old mine.
We completed a detailed exploration drilling campaign including 163 drill holes and 40,000 meters of drilling resulting in the discovery of what we refer to as Mina Isidora (formerly the Chile mine), which we anticipate will be accessible by both a ramp and an inclined shaft. Mina Isidora reported limited production during 2005 (17,503 tons, resulting in approximately 22,000 ounces of gold). Mina Isidora ore is shipped to the mill at the La Camorra mine for processing. At December 31, 2005, the net book value for the development of Mina Isidora totaled $32.6 million. In addition, we had an accrual for future reclamation and closure costs of $0.5 million. At December 31, 2005, there were 70 salaried and 205 hourly employees associated with Block B.
Information with respect to Mina Isidora’s proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Associated Mining Consultants, Ltd., whom has referred to Mina Isidora as “the Isidora Gold Project” within their consent included as exhibit 23.5 to this document, completed an independent audit of the 2003 year-end reserves at Mina Isidora in 2004. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves were based on a gold price of $400, $350 and $335 per ounce, respectively, in 2005, 2004 and 2003.
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves at Mina Isidora are based on diamond drill hole spacing of 30 to 35 meters, geostatistical modeling. Cutoff grade assumptions are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and cash operating costs.
(3)
The changes to the Mina Isidora ore reserves in 2005 compared to 2004 are attributed to additional drill data, changes in modeling techniques, changes in mining assumptions and costs. The cutoff grade at Isidora is 12 grams of gold per tonne.
Outside the Mina Isidora area, other exploration work on the Block B concessions has included geologic mapping, geophysical surveying, geochemical sampling and 20,000 meters of exploration diamond drilling. This work has lead to the discovery of two mineralized zones, the Twin and Conductora mineralized zones, located approximately one-kilometer northeast of the Mina Isidora orebody.
The Twin structure was discovered through drilling during in the second quarter of 2004, and is host to a large mineralized zone known as the Twin mineralized zone. The Twin mineralized zone has a minimum strike length of 750 meters and a minimum vertical extent of 350 meters, and is still open down dip and along strike. Mineralization is somewhat erratic with values ranging from three grams per tonne to over 18 grams per tonne and widths from one meter to over 20 meters. The gold mineralization is associated with disseminated pyrite in a moderate-to-strong schistose shear zone, with moderate-to-intense ankerite/sericite alteration and minor quartz veining. Additional drilling is planned for 2006.
The Conductora structure, which is a possible extension to the northeast of the Twin structure, is a second shear zone that has been traced over a strike length of about 700 meters and is still open in both directions along strike and also down dip. The structure is host to the Conductora mineralized zone, which has erratic gold values associated with sulphides in narrow, quartz veins and/or wide zones of quartz veinlets in moderate-to-intensely schistose rocks with strong ankerite/sericite alteration.
Geological interpretation is continuing to determine the relationship between the Twin and Conductora structures and mineralized zones. The significance of the Twin/Conductora discovery is that it outlines a previously unidentified shear structure and a new style of mineralization on the Block B concession that might exist in other unexplored areas.
Custom Milling Business
During 2004, we completed construction of a small scale crushing and sampling plant on the Block B concessions that allows us to purchase ore produced from small underground mines in the area. Ores purchased from the small mines are initially crushed, sampled and assayed at the sampling plant, and then trucked to the mill at the La Camorra mine for further processing. The sampling plant is designed to process up to 400 tons of purchased ore per day, and includes an assay lab, operated by an outside analytical assay firm, where ore samples are ground and assayed. Ore is received from small mining groups, crushed, sampled and assayed, and then payment for the ore is calculated and made to the miners generally within three days of receipt of the ore.
As a part of this program, we provide small mine operators with financing and technical assistance, including technical advice on mining techniques, grade controls and safety standards. The small mine activity in Venezuela is a significant part of the country’s mining industry, and we believe working with the miners provides goodwill and develops positive relationships with local mining groups, as well as assistance to the communities that are impacted by our operations. We have received a positive response from local and national politicians and citizens for our efforts in helping the small mining cooperatives to improve their practices, and for assisting in providing a stimulus to the local economy.
As part of the custom milling business, we enter into contracts with the small mining groups and advance funds in the form of equipment and working capital, and collect such advances from ore delivered to the sampling and crushing plant. As of December 31, 2005, we had a receivable from small mining cooperatives totaling $2.0 million, net of a reserve of $1.1 million. The net book value of the plant and equipment associated with the custom milling business was $2.6 million at December 31, 2005. In addition, we had an accrual for future reclamation and closure costs of $0.2 million.
The San Sebastian Unit
The San Sebastian mine is located approximately 56 miles northeast of the city of Durango, Mexico, on concessions acquired in 1999. Access to San Sebastian is via Mexico highway 40, approximately 12 kilometers east of Guadalupe Victoria, and then approximately 23 kilometers of paved rural road through the towns of Ignacio Allende and Emiliano Zapata. The processing plant is located near Velardeña, Durango, Mexico, and was acquired in April 2001.
Our concession holdings cover approximately 200-square miles, including the Francine vein, the Don Sergio vein and multiple outlying active exploration areas. Production from the Francine vein has been from a high-grade silver vein with significant gold credits. Production from the Don Sergio vein has been from a high-grade gold vein with some silver credits. Mineral concession titles are obtained and held under the laws of Mexico, and are valid for 50 years with the possibility of extending another 50 years. There are work assessment and tax requirements that are variable and increase with the time that the concession is held.
Several epithermal veins within the Saladillo Valley include the Francine, Profesor, Middle and North vein systems that are proximal to each other and hosted within a series of shales with
interbedded fine-grained sandstones interpreted to belong to the Cretaceous Caracol Formation. The Don Sergio, Jessica, Andrea and Antonella veins located in the Cerro Pedernalillo area, about six kilometers from Francine, are hosted by the same formation with the addition of dioritic intrusive rocks.
Underground development along the Francine vein started in May 2001, and reached full production during the second quarter of 2002. Mining of economic ore on the upper Francine vein was completed during the first quarter of 2005. The mine has been placed on care and maintenance as exploration continues on the property including the Hugh Zone, which is located several hundred meters below historic mining. Mining of economic ore on the Don Sergio vein was completed in the fourth quarter of 2005 and reclamation of this portion of the mine site is underway. San Sebastian’s life-of-mine production over four years was 11.2 million ounces of silver and 155,937 ounces of gold. During 2006, surface drilling will continue on the Hugh Zone. If such results are favorable, a decision to initiate an underground exploration and feasibility program could be made before the end of 2006.
The Francine vein strikes northwest and dips southwest and is located on the southwestern limb of a doubly plunging anticline. The vein ranges in true thickness from more than four meters to less than half a meter, and consists of several episodes of banded quartz, silica-healed breccias and minor amounts of calcite. The vein is oxidized to a depth of approximately 100 vertical meters and the wall rocks contain an alteration halo of less than two meters next to the vein. Mineralization within the oxidized portion of the vein contains limonite, hematite, silver halides and various copper carbonates. Higher-grade gold and silver mineralization is associated with disseminated hematite and limonite after pyrite and chalcopyrite, copper carbonates including malachite and azurite and hydrous copper silicates including chrysocolla. Native gold occurs associated with hematite and limonite. Mineralization in the sulfide portion of the Francine vein contains pyrite, chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, native silver, argentite and trace amounts of aguilarite.
Access to both underground workings has been through ramps from the surface connecting one or more levels. Ore has been mined by the cut-and-fill stoping method and extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in trucks. Run of mine ore has been hauled in trucks by contractors to our processing facility near Velardeña. The mill has been a conventional leach, counter-current decantation and Merrill Crowe precipitation circuit. The ore has been crushed in a two-staged crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw, a secondary cone crusher and a double-deck vibrating screen. The grinding circuit includes a primary ball mill and cyclone classifiers. The ground ore has been thickened followed by agitated leaching and four stages of counter-current decantation to wash solubilized silver and gold from the pulp. The solution bearing silver and gold has been clarified, deaerated and zinc dust added to precipitate silver and gold that is recovered in plate and frame filters. The precious metal precipitate was smelted and refined into doré, and was then shipped to a third-party refiner. Processing of economic ore was completed during the fourth quarter of 2005, and the mill has been placed on care and maintenance.
At December 31, 2005, the net book value of the San Sebastian unit property and its associated plant and equipment was $3.4 million. The mill was constructed in 1994 and is capable of processing approximately 550 tons per day. Site infrastructure includes a water supply system, maintenance shop, warehouse, laboratory, tailings impoundment and various offices. Equipment and facilities, including the mill, are in good condition and have been supported by ongoing diagnostic and preventative maintenance programs. Long-term future operations at the mill would require replacement of the water supply pipeline.
As of December 31, 2005, $1.1 million has been accrued for reclamation and closure costs, and there were 44 hourly and 25 salaried employees performing exploration, care and maintenance, reclamation and security functions. Due to the curtailment of mining activity, the collective bargaining agreement with the National Mine and Mill Workers Union for hourly mill employees was terminated during the fourth quarter of 2005. Electric power is purchased from Comisiòn Federal de Electricidad (a Mexico federal electric company).
Information with respect to the San Sebastian unit’s production, average cost per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves are set forth in the table below.
(1)
Silver and gold production during 2005 was impacted by a strike initiated in October 2004, by hourly employees at the Velardeña mill, as well as by the curtailment of mining activity discussed above. The strike ended in June 2005, with a satisfactory labor agreement that we believe will not inhibit our ability to work in the area in the future.
(2)
The low costs per silver ounce are due in part to significant by-product credits from gold production and an increase in price over the last three years. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, gold by-product credits were approximately $10.78, $6.61 and $4.25 per silver ounce, respectively, and were deducted from operating costs in the calculation of cash costs per ounce. If our accounting policy had been changed to treat gold production as a co-product, the following total cash costs per ounce would have been reported:
(3)
Cash costs per ounce of silver represent measurements that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations that are not in accordance with GAAP. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provide an indicator of profitability and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7, MD&A, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(4)
Our estimates of proven and probable reserves have been based on the following metals prices:
(5)
Proven and probable reserves were exhausted during the fourth quarter of 2005.
The Greens Creek Unit
We hold a 29.73% interest in the Greens Creek unit through a joint venture arrangement with Kennecott Greens Creek Mining Company and Kennecott Juneau Mining Company. The term of the joint venture arrangement continues for 20 years after the effective date (May 1994), and for so long thereafter as products are produced from the properties or the participants continue to have an ownership interest in the assets, unless the arrangement is terminated earlier or is extended.
The partners of the joint venture arrangement are obligated to contribute funds to adopted programs in proportion to their respective participating interests. A participant’s interest in the joint venture arrangement would change: 1) upon election to contribute less to an adopted budget than the percentage reflected by its participating interest; 2) in the event of a participant’s default in making its agreed-upon contribution to an adopted budget, followed by the election of the other participant to invoke remedies as permitted in the agreement; 3) transfer by a participant of less than all of its participating interest in accordance with the terms of the agreement; or 4) acquisition by a participant of some or all of the other participant’s interest, however arising.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies adjacent to the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 17 patented lode claims and one patented mill site claim, in addition to property leased from the U.S. Forest Service. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,500 acres of federal land adjacent to the properties. The entire project is accessed and served by 13 miles of road and consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities and a ferry dock.
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs discontinuously along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the U.S. Forest Service and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,500 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to federal royalties included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no discovery triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than $120 per ton of ore, and 0.75% if the value is $120 per ton or less. The benchmark of $120 per ton is escalated annually by the Gross Domestic Product percentage increase until the year 2016.
Greens Creek is an underground mine which produces approximately 2,000 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The ore is processed on-site at a mill, which produces lead, zinc and bulk concentrates, as well as doré containing silver and gold. The doré is sold to a precious metal refiner and the three concentrate products are sold to a number of major smelters worldwide. Concentrates are shipped from a marine terminal located on Admiralty Island about nine miles from the mine site.
The Greens Creek unit is currently powered by diesel generators located on site. However, an agreement was reached during 2005 to purchase excess hydroelectric power from the local power company, and installation of the necessary infrastructure is expected to be complete during the first half of 2006. It is estimated that 23% to 35% of the diesel-generated power will be replaced, as a result of this project, through 2008. Construction of a new hydroelectric plant by the local power company is anticipated by 2009, at which time it is estimated that it will have the capacity to supply 95% of Greens Creek power.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Kennecott Greens Creek Mining Company, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 266 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2005. Our interest in the net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant and equipment was approximately $47.5 million. All equipment, infrastructure and facilities, including camp and concentrate storage facilities, are in good condition.
As of December 31, 2005, we have accrued $5.0 million for reclamation and closure costs. A reclamation trust fund has been established and funded for $27.3 million, into which we have paid approximately $8.1 million. This fund replaced other forms of security that had been provided to regulatory agencies.
Kennecott Greens Creek Mining Company’s geology and engineering staff computes the estimated ore reserves for the Greens Creek unit with technical support from Rio Tinto plc. We review geologic interpretation and reserve methodology, but the reserve compilation is not independently confirmed by us in its entirety. Information with respect to our 29.73% share of production, average costs per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provide an indicator of profitability and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7, MD&A, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Estimates of proven and probable ore reserves for the Greens Creek unit as of December 2005, 2004 and 2003 are derived from successive generations of reserve and feasibility analyses for different areas of the mine each using a separate assessment of metals prices. The weighted average prices used were:
(3)
Ore reserves represent in-place material, diluted and adjusted for expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries of ore reserve grades differ by ore zones and are expected to be in the range of 72-76% for silver, 65-70% for gold, 77-79% for zinc and 65-68% for lead.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2005 versus 2004 are due to depletion by mining. Additional information from drilling and sampling resulted only in minor reserve increases that did not offset production.
(5)
The changes in reserves in 2004 versus 2003 are due to addition of new drill data, increases in forecast precious metals prices, which has resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates for certain orebodies, partially offset by depletion due to production.
(6)
Proven and probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by orebody and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Cutoff grades range from $70 per ton net smelter return to $100 per ton net smelter return.
(7)
Independent reviews by AMEC E&C, Inc. were completed for reserve models in 2005 for the 200 South, 5250 and Southwest Bench deposits, and in 2003 for the Northwest West Zones. No third-party reviews were conducted in 2004.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday unit, a deep underground silver and lead mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. The principal ore-bearing structure mined at the Lucky Friday unit through 1997 was the Lucky Friday vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The orebody is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of orebodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous orebody in and along the Lucky Friday vein. The major part of the orebody has extended from the 1,200-foot level to and below the 6,020-foot level.
During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. We control the Gold Hunter property under a long-term operating agreement with Independence Lead Mines Company (“Independence”) expiring in February 2018 and renewable thereafter, that entitles us, as operator, to an 81.48% interest in the net profits from operations from the Gold Hunter property. We will be obligated to pay a net profits interest of 18.52% to Independence after we have recouped our costs to explore and develop the property. As of December 31, 2005, unrecouped costs totaled approximately $43.2 million. All of our commitments under the operating agreement have been met. For a description of a legal claim involving the Lucky Friday unit and Independence, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the orebody. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
The ore produced from Lucky Friday is processed in a 1,100-ton-per-day conventional flotation mill. In 2005, ore was processed at a rate of approximately 587 tons per day. The flotation process produces both a silver-lead concentrate and a zinc concentrate. During 2005, mill recovery totaled approximately 93% silver, 93% lead and 70% zinc. All silver-lead and zinc concentrate production during 2005 was shipped to Teck Cominco Limited’s smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, average cost per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from, lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provide an indicator of profitability and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7, MD&A, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries are expected to be 93% for silver, 93% for lead and 76% for zinc.
(4)
We are currently developing the 5900 level, which is expected to reach full production levels in mid-2006. Due to increased data made possible from this development, proven and probable reserves reported at December 31, 2005, doubled after accounting for production during 2005.
(5)
The changes in reserves in 2004 versus 2003 are due to addition of data from new drill holes and development work together with increases in forecast metals prices, which has resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates, partially offset by depletion due to production.
Ultimate reclamation activities contemplated include stabilization of tailings ponds and waste rock areas. No final reclamation activities were performed in 2005, and at December 31, 2005, approximately $0.5 million had been accrued for reclamation and closure costs. The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant and equipment was approximately $15.6 million as of December 31, 2005. The construction of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2005, and are in good physical condition. In 2005, we made capital improvements to our processing plant to improve concentrate grades and metal recoveries. Additions included a third-stage crushing system, increased flotation capacity and a new flash cell, new column cells and tailings thickeners. The plant is maintained by our employees with assistance from outside trade specialists as required.
At December 31, 2005, there were 171 employees at the Lucky Friday unit. The United Steelworkers of America is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 138 hourly employees. The current labor agreement expires on May 1, 2009, however, it can be reopened only for economic consideration on May 1, 2006. Under the agreement, no strikes may occur during the economic consideration phase, as both parties have agreed to binding arbitration, if necessary. Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
PRE-DEVELOPMENT EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
Hollister Development Block
In August 2002, our wholly owned subsidiary, Hecla Ventures Corporation, entered into an earn-in agreement with Rodeo Creek Gold, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Great Basin Gold Ltd. (“Great Basin”), for the exploration, development and production of Great Basin’s underground gold property in the Ivanhoe Mining District of northern Nevada known as the Hollister Development Block (“Hollister”). Located on the northwestern extension of the Carlin Trend, the nearest active mining operations are the Dee mine, located eight miles to the southeast, and the Ken Snyder mine, located twelve miles to the northwest. The nearest major population centers are the towns of Battle Mountain, 38 miles to the southwest; Elko, approximately 47 miles to the southeast; and Winnemucca, 64 miles to the west-southwest.
The Earn-in Agreement, as modified by the parties in March 2006, provides us with an option to earn a 50% working interest in Hollister in return for funding the first stage of an advanced exploration and development program and funding 50% of the second stage. We estimate the cost to achieve our 50% interest to be a maximum of $25.1 million, with our share of the total project to reach full production levels at approximately $36.0 million. We are the manager of the exploration and development activities and if we complete earn-in activities, and if we achieve successful exploration results and upon completion of a favorable feasibility study, we will be the operator of the property. Our project costs through 2005 total $15.7 million.
Hollister is defined by a 6,000-foot by 7,000-foot project boundary, or 964 acres, within a larger claim block held by Newmont Mining Corporation and Great Basin Gold. The most recent operation was the Hollister mine, operated from 1990 through 1996, consisting of two open-pit gold mines and a heap-leach facility.
The underground exploration project consists of approximately 7,500 feet of underground excavation, including a decline access to the mineralized structures, crosscuts, diamond drill stations, muck bays and miscellaneous openings. Approximately 5,000 to 15,000 tons of bulk samples from the different veins within the system are planned, along with approximately 55,000 feet of diamond drilling from underground locations. Surface support facilities for the underground exploration project are located in the existing east Hollister pit, thereby limiting most surface disturbance to areas associated with previous mining activities.
In 2005, construction of the surface facilities was completed and physical exploration efforts underground continued. By the end of 2005, a total of 4,227 feet of openings had been created, and one of the veins had been intersected. Forty nine full-time employees work on the project, with an additional eight contractor/part-time employees performing support roles. All surface facilities and systems have been installed and are operational, with the exception of the waste-rock dump evaporation sump. The originally conceived sump system has not been constructed due to high groundwater levels below the surface. Modifications to the sump design have been approved by federal and state regulatory agencies.
In 2006, we anticipate completing physical exploration by driving another 3,300 feet of openings, and to complete approximately 55,000 additional feet of diamond drilling from underground drill platforms. Metallurgical testing is expected to be conducted, negotiations with potential milling facilities are likely to be pursued and a feasibility study is expected to be compiled. A decision on the viability of a commercial operation is anticipated to be made during 2007. If a production decision was not favorable, closure and reclamation activities would commence pursuant to the stipulations in the Earn-In Agreement.
In April 2005, Hecla Ventures Corporation filed a lawsuit in Elko County, Nevada, against Great Basin and Rodeo Creek Gold Inc., to resolve contractual disagreements involving the Earn-In Agreement. In March 2006, the parties agreed to amend the original Earn-In Agreement to reflect changing conditions at the project, revise certain deadlines and to dismiss all litigation. The main modifications to the Earn-In Agreement were as follows:
•
We have committed to complete and fund 100% of the remaining Stage 1 earn-in activities by March 31, 2007;
•
We and Great Basin will fund Stage 2 equally, although we will fund Great Basin’s Stage 2 activities until we deliver the feasibility study, at which time Great Basin will reimburse us for their Stage 2 expenses;
•
If the decision is made to develop and operate a mine, we must achieve full production by August 2009, as a condition of earning a 50% working interest in the project;
•
We are entitled to the proceeds of the first 50,000 ounces of gold (or equivalent) up to the actual costs of Stage 1 activities plus 15%, not to exceed $25.1 million, from Stage 1 activities, thereafter any revenues will be shared equally; and
•
We and Great Basin have agreed to terminate the litigation.
For additional information, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Our joint development and operating arrangements may not be successful” in Item 1A - Risk Factors.
EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
Noche Buena
Noche Buena is located in the state of Sonora, Mexico, 44 miles northwest of Caborca, and is 100% owned through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Hecla, S.A. de C.V. Purchased in 1998, 1,000 hectares are held under two concessions. An operating permit was received in 2000.
In early 2004, we initiated an updated feasibility study, and since have drilled 9,211 meters of core in 86 holes, which were added to an existing database containing results from 12,492 meters of core drilling in 102 holes and 44,826 meters of reverse circulation drilling in 414 holes. A new geologic interpretation was completed along with an updated model. Other activities have included collecting samples for additional column leach tests, engineering studies for an open pit heap-leaching operation and investigations into updating the existing operating permit.
We completed the feasibility study in 2005 and determined the project did not meet our economic requirements. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we elected to market the concessions. Several companies have expressed interest in acquiring Noche Buena and at December 31, 2005, we had granted one such company exclusive right to evaluate the property in detail and are continuing to negotiate in an effort to reach a definitive agreement, although there can be no assurance this evaluation and negotiation will result in the sale of Noche Buena.
IDLE PROPERTIES
The Grouse Creek Mine
The Grouse Creek gold mine is located in central Idaho, 27 miles southwest of the town of Challis in the Yankee Fork Mining District. Mining at Grouse Creek began in late 1994 and ended in April 1997, due to higher-than-expected operating costs and less-than-expected operating margins, primarily because the ore occurred in thinner, less continuous structures than had been originally expected.
In 2000, we notified state and federal agencies that the Grouse Creek mine would proceed to a permanent suspension of operations. We signed an agreement with the State of Idaho and a voluntary administrative order on consent with the U.S. Forest Service and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “agencies”) in which we agreed to dewater the tailings impoundment, complete a water balance report and monitoring plan for the site, and complete certain studies necessary for closure of the tailings impoundment. The voluntary administrative order on consent requires that a work plan for final reclamation and closure of the tailings impoundment be submitted by us no later than one year prior to estimated completion of the tailings impoundment dewatering, currently anticipated to be in 2007. We currently expect the work plan to be submitted to us during the third quarter of 2006.
In 2003, we received authorization from the agencies to start direct discharge of tailings impoundment waters, with the discharge process ongoing to date. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 50% of the site area has been reclaimed. Projects completed through 2005 include:
•
Demolition of mill facility and site cleanup;
•
Reclamation of exploration roads and drill pads in the Grouse deposit area;
•
Reclamation of 90 acres around the waste rock storage facility and Sunbeam pit;
•
Reshaping and stabilization of slopes below the Grouse underground haul road;
•
Hydroseeding and revegetation of approximately 300 acres;
•
Application of soil supplements to reclaimed areas; and
•
Stockpiling rock and topsoil for future reclamation.
By mid-2006, the tailings impoundment is expected to be sufficiently dewatered for reclamation to begin within the impoundment. The reclamation cost estimate includes costs of site reclamation as well as administration, water management, and closure planning. The reclamation accrual balance as of December 31, 2005, was $28.2 million.
The Republic Mine
The Republic gold mine is located in the Republic Mining District near Republic, Washington. In February 1995, we completed operations at the Republic mine and have been conducting reclamation work in connection with the mine and mill closure. In August 1995, we entered into an agreement with Newmont Gold Company (successor to Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp.) to explore and develop the Golden Eagle deposit on the Republic mine property. Kinross Gold Corporation (formerly Echo Bay Mines Ltd.) acquired Newmont’s interest in 2000 and conducted a limited exploration program on the project until December 2004, when Kinross terminated the agreement.
The remaining net book value of the Republic mine property and its associated plant and equipment was approximately $0.4 million as of December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, the accrued reclamation and closure costs balance totaled $2.6 million.
Item 3.