Item 2. Properties
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
Various of our subsidiaries collectively own 100% of the Greens Creek mine, located on Admiralty Island near Juneau in southeast Alaska. Admiralty Island is accessed by boat, float plane, or helicopter. On the island, the mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by 13 miles of all-weather gravel roads. The Greens Creek mine has been in production since 1989, with a temporary care and maintenance period from April 1993 through July 1996. Since the start of production, Greens Creek has been owned and operated through various joint venture arrangements. For approximately 15 years prior to April 16, 2008, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek. On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a 70.3% interest in the Greens Creek mine, and which previously operated the mine, for approximately $758.5 million. The acquisition gave us through various of our subsidiaries control of 100% of the Greens Creek mine.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies within the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 440 unpatented lode mining claims, 58 unpatented millsite claims, 17 patented lode claims and one patented millsite. In addition, the Greens Creek site includes properties under lease from the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") for a road right-of-way, mine portal and mill site access, camp site, mine waste area and tailings impoundment. The USFS leases have varying expiration terms. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,301 acres of federal land acquired through a land exchange with the USFS. We are currently exploring, but not mining, on such federal land. The claims and leases above comprise a total area of approximately 24 square miles.
The project consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities, a ferry dock, and other related infrastructure. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs most often along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture owning Greens Creek transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the USFS and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,300 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Any production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to a federal royalty included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on any production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no production triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than the benchmark, and 0.75% if the value is equal to or less than the benchmark. The benchmark of $120 per ton was adjusted annually in July according to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Implicit Price Deflator until the year 2016. The benchmark was fixed after 2016 and was approximately $161 per ton at December 31, 2018.
Greens Creek is an underground mine accessed by a ramp from surface which produces approximately 2,300 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The Greens Creek ore processing facility includes a SAG/ball mill grinding circuit to grind the run of mine ore to liberate the minerals and produce a slurry suitable for differential flotation of mineral concentrates. A gravity circuit recovers free gold that exists as electrum, a gold/silver alloy in the ore. Gravity concentrates are produced from this circuit prior to flotation. Three flotation concentrates are produced: a lead concentrate which contains most of the silver recovered; a zinc concentrate which is low in precious metals content; and a zinc-rich bulk concentrate that contains gold, silver, zinc, and lead and must be marketed to an imperial smelter. Doré is produced from the gravity concentrate by a third-party processor and further refined and sold to precious metal traders. The concentrate products are sold to a number of smelters and traders worldwide. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the significant customers for Greens Creek’s products. Concentrates are shipped from the Hawk Inlet marine terminal about nine miles from the mill.
In 2018, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,316 tons per day and total mill recovery was approximately 77% for silver, 88% for zinc, 80% for lead and 65% for gold. The processing facility was originally constructed in 1988, with the first production commencing in 1989. Various modifications and upgrades have been made since that time. Changes to the flotation circuit have included: installation of regrind mills in 1992; mill recommissioning in 1996; expansion of concentrate cleaning equipment in 2000 and 2001; addition of a swing cell option in 2004, allowing for a reduction in bulk concentrate production; addition of an on-stream analyzer in 2006; expansion of lead rougher equipment in 2007; retrofit of two column sparge systems in 2010 and 2011; replacement of the carbon flotation columns complete with sparger upgrades in 2012 and 2013; installation of a replacement on-stream analyzer with an additional multiplexer in 2013 and 2014; and replacement of the sulfuric acid system with a carbon dioxide system for pH control in 2015. Significant changes to the grinding circuit since original construction have included a new motor, two stage screening, and various internal lining modifications for the SAG mill, and replacement of the primary cyclones and the addition of a trommel magnet in the ball mill. In 2017, the swing cells were replaced with Woodgrove staged flotation reactor cells.
Electricity for the Greens Creek unit is provided through the purchase of surplus hydroelectric power from Alaska Electric Light and Power Company (“AEL&P”), to the extent it is available after the power needs of Juneau and the surrounding area are met. When weather conditions are not favorable to maintain lake water levels sufficient for all of the power needs at Greens Creek to be met by available hydroelectric power, the mine relies on power provided by on-site diesel generators.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 369 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2018.
Definition drilling in 2018 focused on upgrading mineralized material at the East Ore, 9A, Northwest West, Deep Southwest, West, Upper Plate, Gallagher and Deep 200 South zones. After applying economic analysis to these drilling results, we believe this mineralized material will likely be converted into reserves in the future, primarily in the East Ore, 9A, Upper Plate, 200 South and West zones. Ore tonnage as well as silver and gold ounces and tons of zinc and lead in the reserve experienced a notable increase driven by high-grade definition and exploration drill results, the new net smelter return terms (improved by-product credits and payable portions for zinc and gold), new resource modeling techniques, as well as various design changes made to reduce dilution. Underground exploration activities at Greens Creek in 2018 continued to define new mineralization along trend of the East, Gallagher, 9A, Deep 200 South, Southwest Bench and Upper Plate zones.
Planned activities to potentially add reserves in 2019 include additional drilling of the East Ore, Northwest West, 9A, Upper Plate, Lower Southwest and Deep 200 South zones as well as a new exploration drift in the Upper Plate. Exploration targets in 2019 are expected to include Upper Plate, Deep Southwest, Northwest West, and 200 South zones. Development is planned in 2019 for a major new exploration drift which we believe will enable definition of targets in the deepest areas of the 200 South Zone.
As of December 31, 2018, we have recorded a $41.8 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintained a $88.1 million reclamation and long-term water treatment bond for Greens Creek as of December 31, 2018. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $605.7 million as of December 31, 2018.
Based on current estimates of reserves and mineralized material, the currently expected remaining mine life at Greens Creek is approximately 11 years. Information with respect to production, Cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, All-In Sustaining Costs ("AISC"), After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Greens Creek, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Greens Creek is $190 per ton NSR for all zones except Gallagher, which has a cutoff grade of $200 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2018 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 78% for silver, 67% for gold, 88% for zinc and 81% for lead.
(4)
The increase in reserves in 2018 versus 2017 was due to compilation and review of historical data and addition of remnant reserve areas, new reserve areas and zone extensions based on data from new drills holes, partially offset by continued depletion of the deposit through production. The increase in reserves in 2017 versus 2016 was due to the addition of data from new drill holes, partially offset by continued depletion of the deposit through production.
(5)
Probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. The proven reserves reported for Greens Creek for 2018 represent stockpiled ore.
(6)
Greens Creek reserve estimates were prepared by Paul Jensen, Chief Geologist, Alex Winant, Resource Geologist, Kerry Lear, Senior Resource Geologist (contractor), and Kyle Mehalek, Planning Engineer, at the Greens Creek unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
(7)
An independent review of the 2016 reserve model for Greens Creek was performed by Roscoe Postle Associates Inc. during 2017. An independent review of the modeling process at Greens Creek was performed by Amec Foster Wheeler E&C Services, Inc. during 2016.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday mine, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. The mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by paved roads from U.S. Interstate 90. The Lucky Friday mine is comprised of 710 acres of patented mining claims and fee lands and 535 acres of unpatented mining claims. We also own or control approximately 26 square miles of mineral interests, which include patented mining and millsite claims, fee lands, and unpatented mining claims, that are adjacent to the Lucky Friday mine property. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday Vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The ore body is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of ore bodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday Vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous ore body in and along the Lucky Friday Vein. The major part of the ore body has extended from 1,200 feet to 6,020 feet below surface.
The second ore-bearing structure, known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, or Gold Hunter, has been mined since 1997 pursuant to an operating agreement with Silver Hunter Mining Company (“Silver Hunter”), our wholly owned subsidiary. During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. At approximately 4,900 feet below surface, the Gold Hunter Veins are hosted in a 200-foot thick siliceous lens within the Wallace Formation that transitions to the St. Regis Formation below 5,900 feet. We are currently mining at approximately 5,900 feet below surface. The veins are sub-parallel, and are numbered consecutively from the hanging wall of the favorable horizon to the footwall. The strike of the vein system is west-northwest with a dip of 85 degrees to the south. The 30 Vein, which has been demonstrated to contain higher silver grades, represents approximately 66% of our current proven and probable ore reserve tonnages, while the remaining 34% of our reserves are contained in various intermediate veins having lower silver grades than 30 Vein. The width of 30 Vein ranges from approximately 0.5 feet to 15.4 feet, with an average width of approximately 7.4 feet. While the veins share many characteristics with the Lucky Friday Vein, the Gold Hunter area possesses some mineralogical and rock mechanics differences that make it more favorable to mine at this time. On November 6, 2008, we, through Silver Hunter, completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company, which held an interest in the Gold Hunter property. The acquisition included all future interests or royalty obligations to Independence and the mining claims pertaining to the operating agreement with Hecla Limited that was assigned to Silver Hunter.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the ore body. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
In 2017, we began work with a third-party equipment manufacturer to develop a remote vein miner ("RVM"), a disc-cutting, continuous-mining machine. We believe RVMs could be used to eliminate the current drill-and-blast method and increase safety and productivity at Lucky Friday. We conducted engineering of the machine and ordered long-lead components for the first RVM in late 2017, and manufacturing and engineering work continued on the machine in 2018.
As discussed further below, the unionized employees at Lucky Friday have been on strike since mid-March 2017, resulting in limited production during that time. The mill has operated intermittently during the strike period, and total mill recovery was approximately 91% for silver and lead and 93% for zinc during 2018. Ore at the Lucky Friday is processed using a conventional lead/zinc flotation flowsheet, with process control guided by a real-time, on-line analyzer. Run of mine ore is crushed in a conventional three stage crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw crusher, and a secondary crushing circuit, and tertiary cone crushing stage. Crushed ore is ground in a ball mill, and the ground slurry reports to the lead flotation circuit. The lead circuit tailings report to the zinc flotation circuit. Lead and zinc concentrates are thickened and filtered, and final concentrate products are shipped to smelters for final processing. The original flotation mill was constructed in 1960 and had a capacity of 750 tons per day. Various modifications and upgrades have been made since that time, including: installation of a 1,000 ton course ore bin and replacement of the ball mill in 1984 to increase processing capacity to 1,000 tons per day; replacement of the double-deck crushing screen with a triple-deck screen, installation of a tertiary cone crushing stage, lead concentrate flash flotation equipment, four ball mill cyclones, a mill feed sampler, and lead concentrate column cleaners and thickeners in 2005; addition of dust collection equipment in the crushing plant in 2006; installation of zinc concentrate flash flotation, conditioning, and column cleaner equipment, and an on-stream analyzer in 2007; construction of two new water treatment plants in 2008, with ongoing enhancements to those facilities since that time; addition of a discharge event pond in 2009; sand cyclone and reagent equipment in 2011; a disc filter added at Mine Tailing Impoundment Structure ("MTIS") 4 in 2016; and various other mill refurbishments. Current processing capacity of the Lucky Friday facility is approximately 1,000 tons per day. All lead and zinc concentrate sales during 2018 were shipped to Teck Resources Limited's smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
During 2008, we initiated engineering, procurement and development activities relating to construction of #4 Shaft, which was completed in January 2017. The #4 Shaft provides access from the 4900 level down to the 8300 level, with a total shaft depth of 8620 feet. Completion of #4 Shaft and associated development allows us to mine mineralized material below our current workings and provide deeper platforms for exploration.
During 2014, Lucky Friday continued implementation of an Environmental Management System and completed installation of remote stream gauging stations. These stations assist in performing daily monitoring activities in nearby receiving waters as required by our effluent discharge permit. Additionally, we have completed reclamation activities on the 26 acre MTIS 4 borrow site and have achieved final stabilization of the disturbed area. In 2015, closure plans and costs were updated and developed for MTIS 3 and 4. The closure cost for MTIS 3 is based on the closure design and cost estimate developed by a third-party firm in conjunction with cost estimates prepared by Lucky Friday personnel to complete necessary associated work to facilitate the closure of the impoundment. The closure cost for MTIS 4 is based on the most recent closure cap design and was prepared for us by a consultant. At December 31, 2018, an asset retirement obligation of approximately $10.7 million had been recorded for closure of MTIS 3 and 4, reclamation and closure of the mine and mill upon the end of the known mine life based on a revised plan developed in 2016, and ongoing monitoring and maintenance.
The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $435.6 million as of December 31, 2018. The age of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2018.
At December 31, 2018, there were 287 employees at Lucky Friday. The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Service Workers International Union is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 214 hourly employees. As further discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, the most recent labor agreement expired on April 30, 2016. On February 19, 2017, the unionized employees voted against our contract offer. On March 13, 2017, the unionized employees went on strike, and have been on strike since that time. Production at Lucky Friday was suspended from the start of the strike, until limited production by salaried personnel commenced in July 2017.
Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
There was no exploration or definition drilling during 2018 due to the strike. Upon restart, definition drilling is expected to resume near the 6350-52 Ramp West, 6500 East Lateral, and 6500 Far East to test the 30 Vein and a portion of the 30 Vein offset by the Silver Fault. Drilling is also expected to refine the intermediate vein package at the 6500 level and upgrade 30 Vein resources on the eastern end of the deposit. These adjacent veins are roughly defined as intermediate veins which have become an increasingly significant component of the mine’s production mix within the life of mine plan. Exploration may resume on the far-east end of the Lucky Friday Extension deposit. The goal of this exploration drilling is to define vein extensions for the 30 Vein and intermediate veins.
Based on current estimates of reserves and mineralized material, the currently expected mine life at Lucky Friday is approximately 17 years. Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, Cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Lucky Friday ranges from $216 per ton NSR to $231 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2018 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 96% for silver, 94% for lead and 90% for zinc.
(5)
The change in reserves in 2018 from 2017 was because of depletion of the deposit through production. The change in reserves in 2017 versus 2016 was because of inclusion of additional intermediate vein material, partially offset by depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
Lucky Friday reserve estimates were prepared by Ben Chambers, Mine Geologist, and Wes Johnson, Technical Services Manager, at the Lucky Friday unit and Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited. The estimates were reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
(7)
An independent review of the 2016 reserve model for Lucky Friday was performed by Roscoe Postle Associates Inc. during 2017.
The Casa Berardi Unit
In 2013, as a result of our acquisition of Aurizon Mines Ltd. ("Aurizon"), we acquired the Casa Berardi mine, located 95 kilometers north of La Sarre in the Abitibi Region of northwestern Quebec, Canada. The mining site is reached via a 38 kilometer all season gravel road which connects with the provincial and national paved roads grid. The property borders Ontario to the west and covers parts of Casa Berardi, Dieppe, Raymond, D'Estrees, and Puiseaux townships. The project area extends east-west for more than 37 kilometers and reaches 3.5 kilometers north-south. The Casa Berardi mine gold deposits are located along a 5 kilometer east-west mineralized corridor.
Aurizon acquired the claims, leases and infrastructure comprising the Casa Berardi mine project in 1998 from TVX Gold Inc. Aurizon engaged in exploration programs beginning in 1998, and production began in late 2006.
The nearest commercial airport to the Casa Berardi mine is located at Rouyn-Noranda. La Sarre can be reached from Rouyn-Noranda via provincial roads 101 and 111. The 38 kilometer all-season gravel road to the mine site branches off from the paved Route des Conquérants road, which runs north from its intersection with road 393 north of La Sarre and passes through the village of Villebois. The branch is approximately 21 kilometers north of Villebois. A gravel road links the East Mine and the West Mine (which roughly represent the east-west boundaries of the mining lease), and a number of forestry roads provide access to the rest of the project area, from east and west.
Hecla Quebec Inc., Hecla’s wholly owned subsidiary, owns a 100% interest in the mineral titles and mining leases comprising the current Casa Berardi mine. The Casa Berardi mine is composed of 69 contiguous claims, covering 3,148.3 hectares (7,779.6 acres) and two mining leases covering 481.4 hectares (1,189.7 acres). The total area of the Casa Berardi property is 3,629.75 hectares (8,969.3 acres). All the claims and leases are in good standing. We own an additional approximately 45 square miles of exploration property located adjacent to the current Casa Berardi mine and comprised of approximately 230 claims, most of which are subject to a 1% NSR royalty in favor of Lake Shore Gold Corp.
We also hold a non-exclusive lease BNE 25938 for a sand and gravel pit, tailings lease 70218, and an additional 12 acres of land contiguous to mining lease BM 768 for rock waste material storage.
Under the Quebec Mining Act, claims are required to be renewed every two years. Statutorily prescribed minimum work commitments apply to all claims and leases. As of December 31, 2018, the claims and leases comprising part of the Casa Berardi mine have excess work credits of CAD$10.7 million. Claims and leases for our other projects in Quebec have excess work credits of CAD$35.3 million as of December 31, 2018.
The project consists of an underground mine and the East Mine Crown Pillar open pit mine. The underground mine has two shafts; the West Mine shaft reaching a vertical depth of 1096 meters, and the unused East Mine shaft located 4.3 kilometers to the east, and going down to a vertical depth of 379 meters. A system of declines and drifts connecting both shafts provide access and underground services to ore zones. The surface infrastructures include a cyanidation processing mill (carbon-in-leach), tailings impoundment areas, and other facilities and infrastructures. Power supply to the site is provided by a 55 kilometer, 120kV power line from the Hydro-Québec transformation station located in the town of Normétal. The map below illustrates the location and access to Casa Berardi:
Prior to Aurizon’s ownership, the Casa Berardi underground mine operated from 1988 to 1997, producing approximately 3.9 million tons of ore at an average gold grade of 0.2 ounces per ton from two sites, the West Mine and the East Mine. Aurizon’s operations from 2006 to 2012 produced approximately 4.5 million tons of ore at an average gold grade of 0.3 ounces per ton. A total of 1,625,500 ounces of gold were recovered by the previous operators prior to 2013. The mineral deposits cover a distance of more than 5.0 kilometers.
The Casa Berardi mine is located in the northern part of the Abitibi sub-province, a subdivision of the Superior province, within the Canadian Shield. The Casa Berardi area belongs to the Harricana-Turgeon Belt, which is a part of the North Volcanic Zone. The regional geology is characterized by a mixed assemblage of mafic volcanics, flysch-type sedimentary iron formations, and graphitic mudrocks that are limited by a large granodioritic to granitic batholith. Structurally, the area is enclosed in the Casa Berardi Tectonic Zone, a 15 kilometers wide corridor that can be traced over 200 kilometers. A network of east-west to east-southeast and west-northwest ductile high strain zones mainly follows the lithological contacts.
Casa Berardi can be classified as an Archean sedimentary-hosted orogenic gold deposit. Mineralization is found in large low-sulphide quartz veins developed against the Casa Berardi fault, and in disseminated sulfides and stockworks lenses associated with strongly carbonate-sericite altered ductile deformation zones obliquely oriented to the Casa Berardi fault, and extending a few hundred meters on both sides of the fault following northwest and northeast orientations. Gold mineralization emplacement was coeval with the fault`s evolution and shows a strong structural control and vertical extension, even if other factors such as the nature of some host rocks and lithological contacts seem to have favored gold deposition.
The Casa Berardi Fault is defined by a stratigraphic contact between a graphite-rich sediment sequence at the base of the Taïbi domain, a northern continuous intermediary fragmental volcanic unit, and a southern polymictic conglomerate unit. The mineralization system is composed of large, low-sulfide quartz veins and low-grade stockworks and carbonate-mica replacement zones forming in the West Mine and Principal area. On the north side of the Fault, a thick sequence of very homogeneous wacke belonging to the Taïbi Group is affected by an amphibolites metamorphic grade. One kilometer further north is the easterly elongated Recher batholith, which is part of the northwestern boundary of the Abitibi greenstone belt.
Current reserves at the Casa Berardi mine comprise seven zones at the West Mine, spread over a moderate horizontal distance from each other and located at different mine elevations, plus open pit and underground areas at the East Mine. Zone 113, Lower Inter Zone, 118, 121,123, 134, 160, the Principal Zones (open pit and underground) and the East Mine (open pit and underground) comprise the bulk of the deposit tonnage. The zones are of varying thickness, ranging from over 50 meters to less than three meters, which is the minimum mining width. Most of the hanging walls are sub-vertical (55º to 85º) and exhibit similar wall characteristics with the exception of the Lower Inter Zone, which in a number of places has relatively shallow hanging wall configurations (less than 45º).
The underground mine at Casa Berardi is a trackless mine accessed by declines and a shaft, which produces approximately 2,300 tons of ore per day. The mining methods are longhole transversal stoping in 10 meters or more mineralization width with good access from nearby development, and longitudinal retreat stoping in narrower ore bodies or long distances from development infrastructure. Longitudinal methods have the advantage of lower waste development requirements; however, there is much less flexibility in sequencing and in access, should ground instabilities occur. Timely supply of both cemented and unconsolidated backfill plays a crucial role in controlling dilution and maintaining a short stoping cycle. We believe this mining method satisfies all of the geotechnical requirements and constraints and, as a non-entry mining method, has proven to be safe and reliable in similar operations. The mineralized zones put in reserves are of varying thickness, ranging from a few tenths of meters to 3 meters, which is the minimum mining width. Most of the hanging walls are sub-vertical (55° to 85°), with typically the graphitic Casa Berardi fault at the footwall.
In 2014, we completed a project initiated by Aurizon to deepen the West Mine Shaft and construct the associated shaft infrastructure, including loading pockets, shaft lining, services and steel.
In early 2016, we made the decision to construct the East Mine Crown Pillar ("EMCP") open pit, which is just west of the East Mine infrastructure. Stripping and development of the EMCP pit is planned to take place over five stages. The first stage was completed in the first half of 2016, and processing of ore from the EMCP pit began in July 2016. Stripping and development have been ongoing, and the pit is being expanded to the west and is currently in the final stage of development. The EMCP pit uses conventional open pit mining methods, and is expected to run for approximately 4.5 years of production. The average amount of material to be moved every six months is anticipated to be approximately 70,000 to 390,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
With the addition of new information, including new pits, evaluation of the schedule for mining the other pits is ongoing. The current plan is as follows:
•
The 134 Zone open pit, as currently designed, would be mined using conventional open pit mining methods. The 134 Zone open pit is expected to commence production prior to depletion of the EMCP pit and to run for approximately 2 full years of production. The average amount of material to be moved every six months is expected to approximate 190,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
•
The 160 Zone open pit, as currently designed, would be mined using conventional open pit mining methods. The 160 Zone open pit is expected to commence production after the EMCP and 134 Zone pits are depleted and to run for approximately 3 full years of production. The average amount of material to be moved every six months is expected to approximate 460,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
•
The Principal Zone open pit, as currently designed, would be mined using conventional open pit mining methods. The Principale Zone open pit is expected to commence production after the 160 Zone pit is depleted and to run for approximately 3 full years of production. The average amount of material to be moved every six months is expected to approximate 570,000 tons of ore, with variable quantities of waste.
The gold recovery process is based on carbon-in-leach ("CIL") technology where gold is dissolved in a cyanide solution, and precipitated on activated carbon grains put in suspension. The product is doré bars poured in the mill’s refinery. Construction of the processing facility, consisting of a 3,600-ton crushing, ore processing, and tailings facility, was completed in 1988 by Inco Gold and Golden Knight Resources Inc., and ore processing began in September 1989, and during the next 9 years the mill processed 3.9 million tons at an average grade of 0.2 ounces per ton. Production at Casa Berardi was suspended in 1997 and the mill was put on care and maintenance until 2005, when major rehabilitation work was initiated by Aurizon. Beginning in the third quarter of 2005, upgrades including refurbishing of the crushing, grinding circuits, conveyors, and leach circuits, the addition of gravity circuits, and construction of an assay laboratory were performed, resulting in an increase of mill capacity. The mill facility was commissioned in November of 2006 and the processing rate ramped up to reach commercial production in May of 2007. In 2018, total mill recovery of gold was approximately 87%.
The mine and mill complex are permitted to process 1,400,000 dry metric tonnes (approximately 1,543,000 tons) of ore per year at a rate of 4,227 tons per day. Difficult ground conditions and bottlenecks in stope preparation have limited underground production to levels below the designed capacity. In 2018, the mill processed approximately 1,375,718 tons, for an average of 3,769 tons per day. The current life of mine plan is based on an average milling rate near the permitted level, with the inclusion of material from the surface mines, for the remaining mine life.
Based on current estimates of reserves and mineralized material, the currently expected remaining mine life at Casa Berardi is approximately 15 years.
In-stope and definition underground drilling during 2018 concentrated within the 118, 121, 123, and 124 zones to refine orebody shapes and gold grade distributions for mine planning and reserves. Underground exploration drilling of the 118 and 123 zones near the bottom of the mine identified mineralization down-plunge to the west (118 Zone) and east (123 Zone) of currently defined mineralized material. Surface definition and exploration drilling has defined the limits and provided detailed characterization of gold grades for a series of new open pits at the 134 and 160 zones and defined a western extension of the EMCP and 146/148 zones. Late in 2018, definition drilling upgraded mineralized material to reserves at the West Mine Crown Pillar (WMCP). Exploration drilling has identified west and northwest extensions to the proposed Principal Zone open pit and extended mineralization to the west of the new WMCP pit at the west end of the Mining Lease.
The proposed underground in-stope and definition drilling programs for 2019 are expected to appraise the high-grade ore shoots of the 118, 119, 123 and 124 zones in the western part of the mine and high-grade, down-plunge extensions from surface of the 148 and 160 zones in the East Mine area. Surface exploration drilling is expected to evaluate shallow extensions of the NW-SW (WMCP area), 124, 129, 139, 146, 152 and 160 zones.
We expect the mine plan will continually be modified as new mineralization is discovered and upgraded to reserves.
The employees at Casa Berardi are employees of Hecla Quebec Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 580 employees at the Casa Berardi unit at December 31, 2018. We also currently utilize third-party contractors, which use their employees and equipment, for some of the mining activities at Casa Berardi.
Hecla acquired Aurizon on June 1, 2013 for approximately CAD$740.8 million (US$714.5 million), and has operated the Casa Berardi mine since the acquisition. The net book value of the Casa Berardi unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $707.5 million as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, we have recorded a $5.8 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintain a surety bond as financial guarantee for future reclamation and closure work.
Information with respect to the Casa Berardi unit’s production, Cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for 2018, 2017 and 2016 is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from silver production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. The cutoff grade at Casa Berardi is assumed to be between 0.099 and 0.110 ounces per ton for underground reserves and 0.020 ounces per ton for open pit reserves. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on prices of $1,200 per gold ounce for underground reserves and $1,225 per gold ounce for open pit reserves for 2018, and $1,200 per gold ounce for all reserves for 2017 and 2016.
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2018 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries for gold of approximately 86% for underground reserves and 85% for open pit reserves.
(5)
The changes in reserves in 2018 compared to 2017 and in 2017 compared to 2016 were a result of an increase in gold ounces due to inclusion of definition drilling information, offset by a decrease in gold ounces due to depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
Casa Berardi reserve estimates were prepared by Real Parent, Principal Resource Geologist, Jonathan Archambault, Geology Superintendent, and Herman De Los Rios, Engineering Superintendent at the Casa Berardi unit. Casa Berardi resource estimates were reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
The San Sebastian Unit
The San Sebastian mine is located approximately 60 miles northeast of the city of Durango, Mexico, on concessions acquired in 1999. Access to San Sebastian is via Mexico highway 40, approximately 6 miles east of Guadalupe Victoria, and then approximately 15 miles of paved rural road through the towns of Ignacio Allende and Emiliano Zapata.
Our concession holdings cover approximately 160 square miles, including the Francine Vein, East Francine Vein, Middle Vein, North Vein, and the Andrea Vein and multiple outlying active exploration areas. Mineral concession titles are obtained and held under the laws of Mexico, and are valid for 50 years with the possibility of extending another 50 years. There are work assessment and tax requirements that are variable and increase with the time that the concession is held. The map below illustrates the location and access to San Sebastian:
Mineralization at the project occurs as low and intermediate sulfidation epithermal veins within the Saladillo valley area. Economically, the most important veins at the project are the Francine, East Francine, Middle and North veins located at the north end of the Saladillo valley and the Andrea Vein located 4 miles to the south. The veins are hosted within a series of shales with interbedded fine-grained sandstones interpreted to belong to the Cretaceous Caracol Formation. Most of the veins strike to the west-northwest and vein dips vary from steep toward the west to shallow toward the east. True vein widths range from 5 to 30 feet, and the average true width of the veins in the district is 8 feet.
Mineralization occurs in an epithermal setting at various paleo-depths. High-grade gold and silver occur both in the very shallow environment in the upper 1,000 feet of the crust and in deep silver-gold-lead-zinc root zones of the system at depths between 2,000 and 3,500 feet below the paleo-water table. Hypogene minerals include sphalerite, galena, argentite, pyrite, chalcopyrite, native silver and gold in electrum. The veins are oxidized down to approximately 300 feet below surface and the oxidized portions of the veins contain limonite, hematite, silver halides and various copper carbonates. Matrix minerals include fine-grained to coarsely crystalline quartz bands and chlorite-quartz-adularia bands and late calcite fill. Mineralization within the vein structures is generally deposited in high-grade “shoots” bound both laterally and horizontally by sharp gradients in grade-thickness.
Hecla operated the San Sebastian underground mine from 2001 to 2005. The historical life-of-mine production from the Francine and Don Sergio veins over four years was 11.2 million ounces of silver and 155,937 ounces of gold. Access to both underground workings was through ramps from the surface connecting one or more levels. Ore was mined by the cut-and-fill stoping method and extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in trucks.
Exploration success on the Middle, North, and East Francine veins and completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment lead to the decision in the third quarter of 2015 to develop shallow open pit mines on those veins, with development commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. Ore production from the Middle and East Francine veins commenced late in the fourth quarter of 2015, and from the North Vein in the first quarter of 2016. Production from the original pits concluded in December 2017. The North Vein was expanded in 2018, and limited surface ore production resumed. The pits were extended to a maximum of approximately 270 feet in depth. Near-surface material is excavated, with drill and blast techniques used for deeper material. Total production from the expanded North Vein pit is anticipated to range from 2,000 to 14,000 tons of ore per month over an additional approximately 20 months, with variable quantities of waste, for total ore production of approximately 100,000 tons. Production was achieved through excavating and drilling and blasting the shallow-dipping, high-grade silver veins which carried significant gold credits. Third-party contractors are used for mining from the pits.
In January 2017, work commenced to build a new underground decline and rehabilitate historical underground workings at the San Sebastian mine in order to mine deeper ore from the Middle Vein. Limited underground production began in January 2018 using third-party contractors and has continued since that time, and is anticipated to total approximately 263,000 tons over 2 years. We expect to mine ore by the cut-and-fill stoping method and for the ore to be extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in trucks.
In mid-2018, we commenced development work to obtain a bulk sample from the Hugh Zone, which was discovered in 2005 and is the down-dip sulfide extension of the past-producing Francine vein. We have entered into a toll milling agreement with another company to process our sulfide ore at their flotation mill facility in Zacatecas, which is approximately 26 miles from the San Sebastian mine site. Processing of the bulk sample material is planned for early 2019. If testing of the bulk sample is successful, we believe production from the Hugh Zone has the potential to extend the mine life at San Sebastian.
Current run of mine ore is hauled in trucks by contractors to a processing facility near Velardeña, Durango, Mexico, which is located approximately 60 miles from the San Sebastian mine site. We previously owned the Velardeña mill, but now use it to process ore under a lease arrangement. Processing of ore averaged approximately 429 tons per day in 2018, with recovery of approximately 92% for silver and 87% for gold. As of December 31, 2018, we have the ability to lease the facility through 2020. The mill is a conventional leach, counter-current decantation and Merrill Crowe precipitation circuit capable of processing up to approximately 550 tons per day, depending on ore hardness. The ore is crushed in a two-staged crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw, a secondary cone crusher and a double-deck vibrating screen. The grinding circuit includes a primary ball mill and cyclone classifiers. The ground ore is thickened followed by agitated leaching and four stages of counter-current decantation to wash solubilized silver and gold from the pulp. The solution bearing silver and gold is clarified, deaerated and zinc dust added to precipitate silver and gold that is recovered in plate and frame filters. The precious metal precipitate is smelted and refined into doré, and is then shipped to a third-party refiner. Since construction of the mill in 1994, two leach tanks were added in 2001, a filter press was added in 2002, and the Merrill Crowe system and Autojet Filters were expanded and modified in 2012. In addition, rehabilitation of various components of the mill was completed in 2015 prior to the start of processing of the ore from the open pits.
At December 31, 2018, the net book value of the San Sebastian unit property and its associated plant and equipment was $15.1 million. Infrastructure includes the underground mine portal and development, a water supply system, maintenance shop, warehouse, laboratory, leased mill and related improvements, and various offices. Equipment and facilities are in good condition. As of December 31, 2018, $7.8 million has been accrued for reclamation and closure costs. All permits required for mining of the open pits and the underground mine and operation of the mill are in place.
There was a total of 71 employees at the San Sebastian unit as of December 31, 2018, with most of them employed by our subsidiary that provides certain specialized services to another subsidiary that owns the mine. These employees are not represented by a bargaining agent. We currently primarily use third-party contractors for mining and operation of the processing facility. The hourly employees of the lessor of the processing facility are represented by the Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores Mineros, Metalúrgicos, Siderúrgicos y Similares de la República Mexicana (a Mexico national union) as bargaining agent.
Based on current estimates of reserves and mineralized material, the currently expected remaining mine life at San Sebastian is approximately 2 years.
Electric power is purchased from Comisiòn Federal de Electricidad (a Mexico federal electric company).
Drilling success from 2012 through 2018 on the near-surface East Francine, Middle and North veins at the San Sebastian property has led to open pit mine production on all three veins, and underground production on the Francine Vein. The Francine, Andrea, Middle and North veins now define over 6.0 miles of mineralized strike length and are open along strike and at depth. Drilling in 2018 identified a new high-grade, oxide ore shoot located approximately 1,000 feet east of the East Francine pit. This East Francine target is approximately 300 feet from surface and can be traced for about 1,500 feet along strike and 600 feet down dip. In combination with a nearby ore shoot in the eastern Middle Vein, this area may represent an important new development for the mine.
Additional oxide mineralization has been defined by drilling along the Professor and East Francine Veins. This mineralization is being reviewed to determine economic viability and for inclusion in mine planning. A new, near-surface area of vein-hosted, oxide mineralization has been identified 1,000 feet west of previous drilling along the Francine Vein. Drilling has also defined new oxide mineralization along the Esperanza Vein and newly-discovered El Toro Vein.
A new resource model of the polymetallic mineralization on the Francine Vein is being reviewed to determine economic viability and for inclusion in mine planning. There was also a discovery and follow-up infill drilling of a new polymetallic ore shoot along the western Middle Vein. This zone has dimensions of approximately 600 feet along strike and 800 feet downdip, and contains recoverable quantities of copper, lead, and zinc, in addition to high-grade gold and silver. It is located about 300 feet west and 200 feet below the current Middle Vein underground mine development and could expand the underground mineable reserves in this area.
The focus of exploration in 2019 is expected to be on defining new precious metal-rich, oxide mineralization at the West Francine, Esperanza and El Toro Veins that could extend the cyanide milling operation of the Velardeña mill. These areas where we have found additional oxide mineralization could develop into new mineralized material that may contribute additional oxide material to the mine life.
The focus of the 2019 Reverse Circulation ("RC") drilling program is expected to be on exploring the large untested area south of the mine area, in the Saladillo Valley, for new veins located under cover. RC drilling recently identified the South Vein in this area and several other RC geochemistry, soil geochemistry and direct current resistivity geophysical anomalies occur in this area. The Esperanza-South-Andrea Vein System traverses the area where RC drilling is being proposed and newly generated RC data could help refine exploration drilling along this trend and could also identify new parallel veins associated with this system.
Information with respect to the San Sebastian unit’s production, Cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-Product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at San Sebastian, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return, rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at San Sebastian is assumed to be $100 per ton NSR for open pit reserves and $140 per ton NSR for underground reserves. The average prices used for the San Sebastian unit were:
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore. Metal recoveries vary by mine zone and ore grade. The 2018 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of approximately 91% for silver and 84% for gold.
(5)
The decrease in silver and gold reserves in 2018 compared to 2017 was due to depletion of the deposit through production, sterilization of material, and model changes in the open pit. The decrease in silver reserves in 2017 compared to 2016 was the result of depletion of the deposit through production, including higher grade portions, partially offset by inclusion of definition drilling information. The increase in gold reserves in 2017 compared to 2016 was the result of inclusion of definition drilling information, partially offset by depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
San Sebastian reserve estimates were prepared by Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist and Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited, and reviewed by Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
The Nevada Operations Unit
As a result of our acquisition of Klondex in July 2018, we obtained 100% ownership of the Fire Creek mine, Hollister mine, Midas mine and milling facility, and the Aurora mine and milling facility, and various other mineral interests comprising a total land position of approximately 110 square miles in northern Nevada.
The employees at the Nevada Operations unit are employees of Klondex Gold & Silver Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 270 employees at the Nevada Operations unit at December 31, 2018.
Additional information on the Nevada Operations properties is below.
Fire Creek
In 1975, Klondex acquired the property as a very early stage exploration project. Fire Creek is located in north-central Nevada in Lander County, and to a lesser extent Eureka County, approximately 16 miles south of a major highway (Interstate 80) near other large gold deposits and mines which are owned and operated by major mining companies. Access to Fire Creek from Interstate 80 is by State Road 306, a good-quality road. Company-maintained mine and exploration roads provide access throughout the property. Fire Creek is a high-grade, epithermal vein deposit, and the land package covers approximately 18,755 acres (approximately 20.7 square miles), consisting of approximately 831 unpatented mining claims, and both leased and owned private fee lands. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the United States Bureau of Land Management ("BLM"). Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. Property fees are paid annually to the county in which they are held. To maintain our unpatented claims, we must file an annual notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county they are located and pay the annual mineral claim maintenance fees to the BLM. Certain of Fire Creek's claims are subject to various net smelter return ("NSR") royalties. Some of these royalties have been prepaid or advanced; however, those that have not been prepaid or advanced have no expiration date, and we may continue to incur payments on these royalties in the future. In addition, Fire Creek is subject to a 2.5% NSR royalty for all production commencing in 2019, and there is no expiration date on the royalty. Fire Creek consists of an underground, mechanized narrow vein mine, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, and administrative buildings, all of which are in reasonably well-maintained, operating condition. The map below illustrates the location and access to Fire Creek:
Mineralization at Fire Creek occurs in steeply dipping epithermal veins within Tertiary basalt flows and intrusive rocks. The mineralized basaltic rocks are a suite of mafic, extrusive rocks associated with the regional north-northwest-trending Northern Nevada Rift ("NNR") structural zone. The NNR system has been documented in multiple geophysical and geological studies and is distinguished as a linear magnetic anomaly approximately 30 miles wide that extends 190 miles south-southeast from the Oregon-Nevada border to central Nevada. The NNR originates from the McDermitt Caldera in northwest Nevada and is likely related to impingement of the Yellowstone hot-spot on continental crust.
The deposit is a low-sulfidation epithermal deposit vertically-zoned within high-angle northwest striking structures, hosted in a mid-Miocene basalt package. Mineralization occurs as shallow structurally-controlled fault hosted gold mineralization in variably altered Tertiary basalts and as native gold in steeply dipping quartz-calcite veins or structures. A package of middle Miocene basalt and basaltic andesite flow has been cut by high-angle normal faults related to both NNR and Basin and Range extension that form grabens and half-grabens which are the structural controls in the district.
High-grade mineralization has been delineated between approximately 4,900 feet and 5,700 feet and is open both up and down dip as well as along strike. Lower-grade mineralization occurs from the surface and mineralization is open at depth. Vein textures, gangue minerals, and alteration seen at Fire Creek are typical of low-sulfidation epithermal systems. Widespread propylitic alteration changes to argillic alteration proximal to veins and/or other structural fluid conduits. Low-grade gold mineralization is often spatially associated with the argillic alteration zone surrounding the high-grade gold. Mineralization often occurs along discrete horizons within vein structures. An opaline silica cap is discontinuously preserved at surface above the main mineralization at Fire Creek. Mineralized faults near this opaline silica were targeted by early prospecting and later shallow drilling by previous operators in the 1980s.
Fire Creek is defined by two major north-northwest striking vein arrays, each comprised of several en-echelon veins. Several new target areas outside of the known vein arrays have been defined by both gradient-array and dipole-dipole induced polarization surveys as well as versatile time domain electromagnetic system geophysical surveys.
The Fire Creek mine is a trackless mine accessed by a decline, and produces approximately 350 tons of ore per day. The mining method is primarily longhole stoping, with some ramp access utilized. Ore mined at Fire Creek is trucked approximately 165 miles to the Midas mill for processing, which is discussed in the Midas section below.
Fire Creek receives electrical power provided by NV Energy, a major Nevada power company.
As of December 31, 2018, the net book value of the Fire Creek mine property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $258.2 million. As of December 31, 2018, we have recorded a $1.5 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs at Fire Creek. We maintain a surety bond as financial security for future reclamation and closure work.
There has been a lack of investment in mine development, including horizontal drifts ("Haulages") and the ramp or decline system ("Spirals"), at Fire Creek. As a result, there have not been sufficient platforms to keep quality targets in the pipeline to replenish reserves as they are depleted. In late 2018, definition drilling focused on the upper portions of Spiral 3 along the Honeyrunner, Karen and Hui Wu structures and the up-dip southern extents of Joyce, 06 and 08 veins to advance the Spiral 4 area. Underground drift development is advancing Haulage 9 to provide an exploration drill platform by early next year. This platform will enable exploration drilling to further drill and extend Spiral 9 veins to the south and the Karen structure back to the north.
In 2019, the emphasis of definition drilling is expected to be on bringing Spiral 4 and Spiral 9 mineralized material into indicated resource inventories. Definition drilling at Spiral 3 is proposed south of Spiral 2, to follow up on previous significant drilling intercepts south of Spiral 9 and north of the 5350 North Haulage. Drilling will also continue to focus on upgrading resources along strike on the Titan Zone. An area of future potential drifting is to the north of the North Haulage at the 5350-elevation following up on surface success on veins to the northeast of the current Fire Creek mine.
Surface exploration drilling in the latter half of 2018 focused on extensions to current high-grade, gold-bearing structures including the Zeus target northwest of the mine, the Guard Shack target south of the mine and the Far View target which is east of the mine.
Underground exploration in 2019 at the Fire Creek mine is expected to evaluate extensions of veining north of Spiral 3 and to the south of Spiral 9. An area of future potential drifting is to the north of the North Haulage at the 5350-elevation following up on surface success on veins to the northeast of the current Fire Creek mine. Surface exploration at Fire Creek is expected to follow mineralized trends that have been identified by geophysics along the Titan, Zeus and South Notice trends. Parallel veins to the east at the Far View target are also expected to be evaluated.
Hollister
The Hollister property has been owned and operated since the 1900s by various mining companies which mined mercury in the early 1900s and gold and silver in the late part of the century. Klondex acquired the property in October 2016. Hollister is a fully-permitted past producing underground and open pit operation. It is located in north-central Nevada in Elko County, approximately 61.5 miles east-northeast of Winnemucca, Nevada and 17 miles southeast from the Midas mine. Hollister is accessed by all-weather paved and gravel county roads. Hollister is comprised of 1,005 unpatented lode claims and 11 unpatented mill site claims that cover an area in excess of 15,000 acres, and an additional 209 unpatented lode claims through agreements covering approximately 4,320 acres. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands administered by the BLM. Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain our unpatented claims in good standing, we must file an annual notice of intent to maintain the claims with the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. Certain claims and areas of Hollister are subject to royalties, including seven separate NSR royalties ranging from 1% to 5%, and a 1% NSR royalty after 500,000 ounces of gold production occurring from October 3, 2016, when Klondex acquired the property. There is no expiration date on the aforementioned royalties. Hollister includes an underground mine, former open pit mines, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, and administrative buildings, all of which are in reasonably well-maintained, operating condition. The map below illustrates the location and access to Hollister:
The Hollister mine is located along the NNR, and is on trend with the north-western end of the Carlin Trend, which is approximately 5 miles wide and 40 miles long. Mineralization is related to the Miocene period of magmatic activity associated with the NNR while gold mineralization on the Carlin Trend has been dated to late Eocene/early Oligocene magmatism. Epithermal disseminated gold mineralization is hosted in volcanic tuffaceous units, andesites, and the Ordovician Vinini Formation. High-grade gold and silver mineralization is hosted as banded quartz veins in a group of near-vertical faults and fissures that trend west-northwest to east-west. The amount of displacement across these faults is small and their strike continuity varies between one hundred to several thousand feet. Primary lithologies in the area have been strongly altered by hydrothermal fluids with large areas of chalcedonic replacement bodies at the paleo water table in addition to sinter deposits.
The Hollister property also includes the Hatter Graben vein system, which is located approximately 2,500 feet east of the Hollister mine's underground development and has been down dropped approximately 800 feet lower than the current mine resource. The system of mineralized veins has a known vertical extent of 1,400 feet and strike length of 2,000 feet. This East-West trending zone is open along strike to the east and west and at depth and mineralization is strengthening in the east as historic high-grade intersections occur up to 4000 feet along strike to the east. Gold and silver mineralization is dominantly in the Ordovician quartzites, siltites and argillites. Higher grades are associated with banded quartz veins from inches to feet in width and extensive zones of quartz vein stockwork and quartz matrix breccias also contain significant mineralization. The first surface holes were initiated at Hatter Graben in the third quarter of 2018 with the intent to extend the current identified mineralized material east and west. Drill holes at 300-foot intervals have intersected swarms with multiple veins and mineralized breccias at the anticipated distance. Development of a drift from the Hollister mine's underground workings to the Hatter Graben area commenced in the third quarter of 2018.
The Hollister mine is a trackless mine accessed by a decline. Due to variability within the Hollister mine material, a selective mining approach is employed by matching mining methodology to stope characteristics. Hollister mining methods include cut and fill, ramp access and longhole stoping. The current Hollister mine plan primarily employs cut and fill stoping. As discussed below, ore mined at Hollister is trucked to the Midas mill for processing, and the resulting loaded carbon is stripped at the Aurora mill.
Hollister receives electrical power provided by NV Energy.
As of December 31, 2018, the net book value of the Hollister mine property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $114.3 million. As of December 31, 2018, we have recorded a $6.1 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs at Hollister. We maintain a surety bond as financial guarantee for future reclamation and closure work.
In 2018, definition drilling at Hollister focused on the Central Hollister, East Clementine and Gwenivere areas. The Central Hollister programs targeted up-dip and lateral extensions of the 141, 151, 161, 181 and 213 veins from the 5190 level and down dip extensions of the 182 Vein from the 5050 level. The East Clementine program targeted the 234, 243 and 253 veins at higher elevations near the unconformity where high-grade concentrations of gold can occur. The Gwenivere program was designed to offset two historical high-grade drill intercepts that are approximately 1,500 feet from the portal and represents the discovery of a new vein that is open in all directions. Two surface holes have been completed at Hatter Graben to extend the current resource to the east and west.
At the Hollister mine, underground exploration in 2019 is expected to evaluate the West Gloria Vein to the west and the veins of East Hollister. As underground development to the Hatter Graben area advances, drilling is expected to evaluate and upgrade the veins of the Hater Graben. A small surface drilling program is also planned to evaluate the eastern extension of the known Hatter Graben veins.
Midas
The Midas mining district has historic gold production dating as early as 1907. Since modern mining began in 1998, 2.2 million ounces of gold and 26.9 million ounces of silver have been produced by three previous owners prior to Klondex. Klondex acquired the fully-permitted Midas mine and ore milling facility in February 2014. Midas is located in north-central Nevada in Elko County and lies about 58 miles east of Winnemucca on Nevada State Highway 789, and one mile from the town of Midas, Nevada. Midas is a high-grade, epithermal vein deposit, and the land package covers approximately 30,000 acres (~47 square miles), which includes fee lands, federal unpatented mining claims, seven mining leases, BLM rights-of-way, general agreements, easements, and surface use agreements, with varied terms and annual payments. Within the land package, there are 1,489 federal unpatented mining claims, of which 1,456 are owned and 33 are leased. Owned and leased fee lands comprise approximately 2,985 acres of the land package which is a mix of surface-mineral rights and surface rights only. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. Property fees on fee lands are paid annually to the county in which they are held. To maintain our unpatented claims, an annual notice of intent must be filed with the respective county, in addition to paying the annual mineral claim maintenance fees to the BLM. Certain of the Midas claims are subject to a royalty. Midas is also subject to a 2.5% NSR royalty from all production commencing in 2019, and there is no expiration date on the royalty. Midas includes an underground, mechanized narrow vein mine, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, a Merrill-Crowe refining facility, a milling circuit, and administrative buildings, all of which are in reasonably well-maintained, operating condition. The map below illustrates the location and access to Midas:
The Midas mine is the largest known gold-silver epithermal deposit along the NNR, and is located in the Midas mining district, also known as the Gold Circle district. The Midas deposit consists of a series of complex steeply dipping, quartz-calcite-adularia precious metal veins hosted by volcanic and volcanoclastic rocks. Gold mineralization occurs as electrum and is intimately associated with selenide and sulfide minerals. It belongs to a suite of middle Miocene low-sulfidation epithermal gold and silver mineralizing systems associated with magmatism and faulting along the NNR. The mineralization model at Midas is a shallow, low-sulfidation, vertically- and laterally-zoned, epithermal gold-silver system. Rocks in the Midas district are primarily ash flow, air-fall and lithic tuffs, felsic plugs, volcanoclastic sediments and gabbroic sills and dikes.
Gold and silver mineralization at Midas is hosted in several northwest-striking veins. The veins are divided into four principal groups based on their location and orientation. The two principal groups that host the majority of the identified mineralized material are the Main Veins and East Veins. The Main Veins dip easterly and are gold dominant, while the East Veins dip to the west and contain higher silver content than the Main Veins. The Main Veins produced more than 2.2 million ounces of gold and 26.9 million ounces of silver between 1998 and 2013, principally from the Colorado Grande and Gold Crown Veins. Initial development and production from the East Veins began in 2012. The third group of veins is comprised of the Queen and Trinity Veins located to the south of the existing workings and south of the regional South Owyhee Fault. They are defined by limited underground and surface drilling and there has been no mine production from them to date. The Queen Vein and Trinity Vein systems represent high-priority, near-mine exploration targets. The fourth group of veins are west of the Main Vein system and includes the Link and Midas Trend Veins. Like the southern vein group, these veins have yet to be delineated from underground.
Mineralized material has been identified on the Main and East veins and other veins near the active mine workings. Active drill testing is taking place in these areas and is being prioritized based on ounce expectations, accessibility from existing development and geotechnical, ventilation, and hydrological considerations. Mine plans are being updated on a regular basis as results are received.
The Midas mine is located on the southeast flank of the Snowstorm Mountain range near the eastern margin of the NNR structural domain, hosted in a bimodal suite of volcanic rocks. Several other structurally controlled, epithermal precious-metal vein deposits are hosted in similar Miocene-age volcanic rocks along the NNR, including Fire Creek and the Mule Canyon mine. These mineral deposits occur along the NNR and share similar mineralization characteristics, including epithermal textures and trace-elements, locally high-grade gold and silver, mid-Miocene ages of mineralization and close temporal association with the Miocene host rocks.
The Midas mine is a modern, mechanized narrow vein mine. Design constraints included four feet minimum width for longhole stopes with development drifts spaced at 50-foot vertical intervals. Stope development drift dimensions maintained a constant height of 11 feet and a minimum width of seven feet. Cut and fill stopes are a minimum of six feet in width, and each cut is ten feet high. Mining and backfill tasks were created from all designed excavations. These tasks were assigned costs and productivities specific to the excavation or backfill task type. Alternative mining methods such as shrinkage stoping and alimak stoping are being investigated. The veins at Midas can vary in thickness from a few inches to over ten feet. In the third quarter of 2018, we decided to stop production at the Midas mine, and are utilizing some of the equipment and employees from that location for production and development at the Fire Creek and Hollister mines.
Midas Mill
Ore from the Fire Creek, Midas and Hollister mines is processed at the Midas mill, which has a design capacity of 1,200 tons per day. Fire Creek and Midas ore is processed using a counter current decantation ("CCD") circuit. Hollister ore is processed using a carbon in leach ("CIL") circuit. Run-of-mine ore is crushed to 100% passing one-half inch in a conventional two-stage crushing circuit which utilizes a primary jaw crusher and a secondary cone crusher with the circuit closed by a double deck vibrating screen. The crushed product reports to the grinding circuit consisting of an 800 horsepower overflow ball mill and a 250 horsepower vert-mill. The circuit is closed using a bank of four (three operating, one standby) 10-inch cyclones. A portion of the cyclone underflow is sent to a gravity concentrator to remove coarse gold. The gravity concentrate is leached using an Acacia intense cyanidation unit with the gravity tail returned to the grinding circuit for further grinding. The ground product is thickened before being leached with cyanide for 72 hours in a series of eight leach tanks. The leached slurry reports to a conventional five-stage counter current decantation circuit with the overflow solution from the first thickener, together with the pregnant solution from the Acacia reactor, reporting to the Merrill-Crowe circuit where zinc dust is used to precipitate the precious metal from solution. The underflow from the fifth thickener is treated to eliminate the remaining cyanide and pumped to the tailings storage facility. Mercury is removed from the precipitate in a retort oven before being smelted and poured into doré bars. The bars are shipped off site for further refining by a third party.
For Hollister, the ground ore reports to the pre-leach thickener in the same manner as it does when running the CCD circuit. Thickener underflow is pumped to the first in a series of four CIL tanks. Sodium cyanide is added to the first tank to enable gold leaching. Each of the four tanks are equipped with a carbon retention screen and a carbon advance pump. The first and fourth tanks also have a loaded carbon screen on the top of the tanks. The slurry flows through the retention screens to the next successive tank and is ultimately pumped to cyanide detoxification and to the tails facility. New carbon is added to the fourth tank and is pumped counter current to the slurry flow from the fourth tank, progressively upstream, until loaded carbon is pumped over the screen on the first tank and into carbon transport bags. The carbon transport bags are then loaded on a truck and hauled to the Aurora mill where they are stripped. The sludge is collected and shipped to the Midas refinery to be poured into doré bars. The bars are shipped off site for further refining by a third party.
For the portion of 2018 under our ownership, total mill recovery of gold and silver was approximately 86% and 72%, respectively.
Midas receives electrical power provided by NV Energy.
As of December 31, 2018, the net book value of the Midas mine and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $59.4 million, and the net book value of the Midas mill, tailings facility and associated plant and equipment was approximately $30.8 million. As of December 31, 2018, we have recorded an $11.6 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs at Midas. We maintain a surety bond as financial security for future reclamation and closure work.
In 2018, surface and underground exploration drilling was completed on the Trinity target, a small, high-grade deposit south of the Midas mine. This drilling suggests vein mineralization may be strongest along the edges of the Trinity Corridor and mafic dikes and appears to be open both to the south and north. There is currently no drill program planned at Midas for 2019.
At the Midas mine, 2019 exploration programs are designed to evaluate vein targets within an extensive property.
Aurora
Gold was discovered in 1860 on the Aurora property and since that time various companies have mined from this location. Klondex acquired the property in October 2016. The Aurora project includes fully-permitted past producing underground mine and open pit mine operations, which are currently inactive. Aurora is located in west central Nevada 10 miles from the California border in Mineral County, approximately 20 miles west of Hawthorne, Nevada. Access is provided by all-weather paved and gravel county roads. Aurora consists of 92 patented mining claims, 944 acres of fee lands, and 448 unpatented lode-mining claims, totaling approximately 9,928 contiguous acres that encompass the entire district. Patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. Unpatented claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. To maintain our patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property fee payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain our unpatented claims in good standing, we must file an annual notice of intent to maintain the claims with the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. A portion of the patented and unpatented claims owned or leased by us and the leased fee lands are subject to underlying royalties, including a 3% royalty that would be split among two companies. Aurora includes an underground mine, former open pit mines, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, a milling circuit with permitted tails storage facility, and administrative buildings, all of which are in reasonably well-maintained condition. The site has access to three-phase overland power which is used to operate the mill. The map below illustrates the location and access to Aurora:
Aurora is located within the Walker Lane structural belt of western Nevada. The Walker Lane is characterized by northwest-trending en echelon right-lateral strike slip faults that have tilted and rotated structural blocks since mid-Miocene through the Quaternary. Mineralized veins typically occur along northeasterly orientations. Northeast structures mostly host post-date vein mineralization in the district. Mineralization at Aurora occurs as low-sulfidation epithermal veins, breccias, and stockwork zones in Miocene intermediate to felsic composition volcanic rocks. The Prospectus and Humboldt areas are underlain by a complex series of andesitic flows, conglomerates, and lahars. The Martinez area is underlain by a more “porphyritic” volcanic/subvolcanic rock of andesitic to dacitic composition. Mineralized veins are typically composed of several generations of silica accompanied by variable amounts of adularia, sericite, pyrite, base metal sulfides, sulfosalts and electrum.
The Aurora mill is operational and is currently being used to strip loaded carbon from Hollister ore that has been processed at the Midas mill. The crushed product is ground using a SAG mill and two over flow ball mills with the circuit closed by a bank of cyclones. The cyclone overflow reports to a series of 8 CIL tanks where cyanide is added and precious metal is leached from the ore and adsorbed onto the carbon. Carbon bags are first emptied into an attrition tank. From the attrition tank the carbon is pumped over a dewatering screen, reporting to a carbon storage tank. From the carbon storage tank, the carbon is pumped over another dewatering screen, reporting to the acid wash vessel. The carbon is acid washed using dilute nitric acid to remove acid soluble scale from the carbon. After acid wash the carbon is pumped to the strip vessel where the precious metal is removed from the carbon. Hot caustic solution is pumped through the vessel to remove the precious metal from the carbon and into the pregnant strip solution tank. The strip solution is then pumped through a series of three electrowinning cells where the precious metal is removed from solution, reporting as sludge in the bottom of the cell. The sludge is collected into either buckets or bins and transported to the Midas refinery. Fluxes and sludge are added to the refinery furnace and poured into doré bars. The bars are transported to a third-party refinery for further processing.
As of December 31, 2018, the net book value of the Aurora mine and mill property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $5.7 million. As of December 31, 2018, we have recorded a $4.1 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs at Aurora. We maintain a surety bond as financial security for future reclamation and closure work.
Information with respect to the Nevada Operation unit’s production, Cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for 2018 is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from silver production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. The cutoff grades assumptions are 0.339 gold-equivalent ounces per ton at Fire Creek and 0.396 gold-equivalent ounces per ton at Hollister. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves for 2018 are based on prices of $1,200 per ounce for gold and $14.50 per ounce for silver.
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2018 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries for gold and silver of approximately 94% and 92%, respectively, for Fire Creek and approximately 87% and 80%, respectively, for Hollister.
(5)
Fire Creek resource and reserve estimates were prepared by John Spring, Chief Geologist, Agapito Orozco, Senior Resource Geologist, Sarah Bull, Senior Mining Engineer, and Denver Winslow, Chief Engineer at the Nevada Operations unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
Hollister reserve and resource estimates were prepared by Gabe Adogla, Chief Geologist, Agapito Orozco, Senior Resource Geologist, Charles Watts, Senior Mining Engineer, and Bryan Farbridge, Chief Engineer at the Nevada Operations unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
At Midas, new resource modeling was completed by Gabe Adogla, Chief Geologist, and Agapito Orozco, Senior Resource Geologist at the Nevada Operations unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited and Dean McDonald, Senior Vice President of Exploration.
Item 3.