Item 2. Properties
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
Various of our subsidiaries collectively own 100% of the Greens Creek mine, located on Admiralty Island near Juneau in southeast Alaska. Admiralty Island is accessed by boat, float plane, or helicopter. On the island, the mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by 13 miles of all-weather gravel roads. The Greens Creek mine has been in production since 1989, with a temporary care and maintenance period from April 1993 through July 1996. Since the start of production, Greens Creek has been owned and operated through various joint venture arrangements. For approximately 15 years prior to April 16, 2008, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek. On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a combined 70.3% joint venture interest in the Greens Creek mine, and which previously operated the mine, for approximately $758.5 million. The acquisition of these two joint venture participants gave us control of 100% of the joint venture that owns and operates the Greens Creek mine.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies within the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 440 unpatented lode mining claims, 58 unpatented millsite claims, 17 patented lode claims and one patented millsite. In addition, the Greens Creek site includes properties under lease from the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") for a road right-of-way, mine waste area and tailings storage facility. The USFS leases have varying expiration terms. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,301 acres of federal land acquired through a land exchange with the USFS. We are currently exploring, but not mining, on such federal land. The claims and leases above comprise a total area of approximately 24 square miles.
The project consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings storage area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities, a ferry dock, and other related infrastructure. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs most often along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture owning Greens Creek transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the USFS and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,300 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Any production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to a federal royalty included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on any production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no production triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than approximately $161 per ton at December 31, 2020.
Greens Creek is an underground mine accessed by a ramp from surface which produces approximately 2,300 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The Greens Creek ore processing facility includes a SAG/ball mill grinding circuit to grind the run of mine ore to liberate the minerals and produce a slurry suitable for differential flotation of mineral concentrates. A gravity circuit recovers free gold that exists as electrum, a gold/silver alloy in the ore. Gravity concentrates are produced from this circuit prior to flotation. Three flotation concentrates are produced: a lead concentrate which contains most of the silver recovered; a zinc concentrate which is low in precious metals content; and a zinc-rich bulk concentrate that contains gold, silver, zinc, and lead and must be marketed to a smelter utilizing an Imperial Smelting Furnace (ISF) which can simultaneously produce both zinc and lead. Doré is produced from the gravity concentrate by a third-party processor and further refined and sold to precious metal traders. The concentrate products are sold to a number of smelters and traders worldwide. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the significant customers for Greens Creek’s products. Concentrates are shipped from the Hawk Inlet marine terminal about nine miles from the mill.
In 2020, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,236 tons per day and total mill recovery was approximately 82% for silver, 92% for zinc, 83% for lead and 73% for gold. The processing facility was originally constructed in 1988, with the first production commencing in 1989. Various modifications and upgrades have been made since that time. Changes to the flotation circuit have included: installation of regrind mills in 1992; mill recommissioning in 1996; expansion of concentrate cleaning equipment in 2000 and 2001; addition of a swing cell option in 2004, allowing for a reduction in bulk concentrate production; addition of an on-stream analyzer in 2006; expansion of lead rougher equipment in 2007; retrofit of two column sparge systems in 2010 and 2011; replacement of the carbon flotation columns complete with sparger upgrades in 2012 and 2013; installation of a replacement on-stream analyzer with an additional multiplexer in 2013 and 2014; and replacement of the sulfuric acid system with a carbon dioxide system for pH control in 2015. Significant changes to the grinding circuit since original construction have included a new motor, two stage screening, and various internal lining modifications for the SAG mill, and replacement of the primary cyclones and the addition of a trommel magnet in the ball mill. In 2017, the swing cells were replaced with Woodgrove staged flotation reactor cells.
Electricity for the Greens Creek unit is provided through the purchase of surplus hydroelectric power from Alaska Electric Light and Power Company (“AEL&P”), to the extent it is available after the power needs of Juneau and the surrounding area are met. When weather conditions are not favorable to maintain lake water levels sufficient to meet all of the power needs at Greens Creek by available hydroelectric power, the mine relies on power provided by on-site diesel generators, which can supply the full electrical load of the operation.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 443 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2020.
Definition drilling during 2020, which was limited because the pandemic reduced drilling contractor access, focused on upgrading mineralized material at the 200 South, East Ore, Southwest, 9a, and Upper Plate zones. After applying economic analysis to these drilling results, we believe this mineralized material will likely be converted to reserves in the future, primarily in the East Ore, 200 South, Upper Plate, and 9a zones. Underground exploration activities at Greens Creek in 2020 identified mineralization along trend of the 200 South Zone, confirming mineralization is consistent along the upper trend for 350 feet between previously drilled areas, and mineralization occurs along the lower trend in line with, and 200 feet south of, previous drilling.
Planned activities to potentially add reserves in 2021 include additional drilling of the East Ore, West, 9A, Upper Plate, Southwest, Northwest West, 200 South, 5250, and Gallagher zones. Underground exploration targets in 2021 are expected to include the 200 South, Gallagher, and East Ore zones while surface exploration will test the Lil’Sore Trend and 5250 Zone target areas in the district. Development continues to advance two exploration drifts to the south, which we believe will enable definition and drilling of targets in the deepest areas of the 200 South Zone.
As of December 31, 2020, we have recorded a $42.7 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintained a $92.2 million reclamation and long-term water treatment bond for Greens Creek as of December 31, 2020. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $569.3 million as of December 31, 2020.
The current mine plan at Greens Creek utilizes estimates of reserves and mineralized material for approximately 11 years of production. Information with respect to production, cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, All-In Sustaining Costs ("AISC"), After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represent non-GAAP measurements that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Greens Creek, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Greens Creek is $205 per ton NSR for all zones except Gallagher and additional small headings, which have cutoff grades of $210 and $240, respectively, per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2020 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 82% for silver, 72% for gold, 92% for zinc and 84% for lead.
(5)
The change in reserves in 2020 versus 2019 was due to continued depletion of the deposit through production and limitations on drilling activities due to COVID-19. The change in reserves in 2019 versus 2018 was due to data from new drill holes, new density measurements, new resource modeling techniques and various design changes made to reduce dilution, partially offset by continued depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
Probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. The proven reserves reported for Greens Creek for 2020 represent stockpiled ore.
(7)
Greens Creek reserve estimates were prepared by Paul Jensen, Chief Geologist, Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist, and Kyle Mehalek, Chief Mine Engineer, at the Greens Creek unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Geologist, and Kurt Allen, Director of Exploration, at Hecla Limited.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday mine, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. The mine site and various surface facilities are accessed by paved roads from U.S. Interstate 90.
The Lucky Friday mine is comprised of 710 acres of patented mining claims and fee lands and 535 acres of unpatented mining claims. We also own or control approximately 26 square miles of mineral interests, which include patented mining and millsite claims, fee lands, and unpatented mining claims, that are adjacent to the Lucky Friday mine property. On November 6, 2008, we, through the Silver Hunter Mining Company (“Silver Hunter”), completed the acquisition of substantially all the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company, which held an interest in the Gold Hunter property. The acquisition included all future interests or royalty obligations to Independence and the mining claims pertaining to the operating agreement with Hecla Limited that was assigned to Silver Hunter. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday Vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The ore body is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of ore bodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday Vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous ore body in and along the Lucky Friday Vein. The major part of the ore body has extended from 1,200 feet to 6,020 feet below surface.
The second ore-bearing structure is known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, or Gold Hunter. It is located about 5000 feet northwest of the Lucky Friday workings and was discovered by Hecla in 1991. It was put into production pursuant to an operating agreement with Silver Hunter, our wholly owned subsidiary. High grade silver mineralization occurs in steeply dipping veins hosted in a 200-foot thick siliceous lens within the Wallace Formation that transitions to the St. Regis Formation at about 5,900 feet below surface. We currently are mining at approximately 6,300 feet below surface. The veins are sub-parallel and strike west-northwest with a dip of 85 degrees to the south. The strike length of the mineralized package is approximately 2,150 feet. The 30 Vein, which contains higher silver grades, is the primary producer and represents approximately 57% of our current proven and probable ore reserve tonnages, while the remaining 43% of our reserves are contained in various intermediate veins having lower silver grades than 30 Vein. The width of 30 Vein ranges from approximately 0.5 feet to 15.4 feet, with an average width of approximately 7.4 feet.
Access to the mining horizons from the surface is by shaft access. Once underground, trackless drifts and ramps are utilized to reach the mining areas. An internal, hoisting shaft was completed in 2017 to extend access at depth in the Gold Hunter area. The principal mining methods in use at the Lucky Friday unit consist of underhand systems with integral paste fill and varying degrees of mechanization. The most prevalent system in use in 2020 was underhand cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the ore body. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed below from the ramp system. In 2020, we began testing a new underhand method that has the potential for increased mechanization. It is akin to longhole stoping but is conducted over shorter vertical intervals and without an undercut. Work has been underway since 2017 to develop a fully mechanized underhand method which would utilize a remote vein miner for mechanical excavation. Fabrication of the remote vein miner was completed in 2019. Testing and modification of the machine at the manufacturer's facilities proceeded in 2020 but has been delayed by COVID-19. Delivery to Lucky Friday is expected in 2021.
Ore at the Lucky Friday unit is processed using a conventional lead/zinc flotation flowsheet. Run of mine ore is crushed in a conventional three stage crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw crusher, followed by secondary and tertiary cone crushing circuits. Crushed ore is ground in a ball mill, and the ground slurry reports to the lead flotation circuit. The lead circuit tailings report to the zinc flotation circuit. Lead and zinc concentrates are thickened and filtered, and concentrate products are shipped to smelters for final processing. The original flotation mill was constructed in 1960 and had a capacity of 750 tons per day. Various modifications and upgrades have been made since that time, and the plant capacity currently is estimated at 1,000 tons per day. Total mill recovery was approximately 96% for silver, 95% for lead and 91% for zinc during 2020. All lead and zinc concentrate sales during 2020 were shipped to Teck Resources Limited's smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
At December 31, 2020, there were 327 employees at Lucky Friday. The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Service Workers International Union is the bargaining agent for Lucky Friday’s 241 hourly employees as of December 31, 2020. The current labor agreement expires on January 6, 2023. Re-staffing of the mine and ramp-up activities, following a strike that started in March 2017 and ended in early January 2020, have been substantially completed, with a return to full production starting in the fourth quarter of 2020.
The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $495.6 million as of December 31, 2020. The vintage of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2020.
The current mine plan at Lucky Friday utilizes estimates of reserves and mineralized material for approximately 17 years of production.
There was no exploration at Lucky Friday in 2020, and no exploration activities are planned in 2021.
Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, represent non-GAAP measurements that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization is presented for the full year of 2020. However, Cash Cost, After By-product Credits and AISC, After By-product Credits only reflect results for the fourth quarter of 2020, as production was ramped-up during the first three quarters of 2020 following the end of the strike. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at Lucky Friday ranges from $216 per ton NSR to $231 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2020 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries of 96% for silver, 94% for lead and 92% for zinc.
(5)
The change in reserves in 2020 from 2019 was due to inclusion of definition drilling information, partially offset by depletion of the deposit through production. The change in reserve in 2019 from 2018 was because of depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
Lucky Friday reserve estimates were prepared by Ben Chambers, Mine Geologist and Wes Johnson, Technical Services Manager, at the Lucky Friday unit. The estimates were reviewed by Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist, Keith Blair, Chief Geologist, and Kurt Allen, Director of Exploration, at Hecla Limited.
The Casa Berardi Unit
In 2013, as a result of our acquisition of Aurizon, we acquired the Casa Berardi operation, located 95 kilometers north of La Sarre in the Abitibi Region of northwestern Quebec, Canada. The property borders Ontario to the west and covers parts of Casa Berardi, Dieppe, Raymond, D'Estrees, and Puiseaux townships. The project area extends east-west for more than 37 kilometers and reaches 3.5 kilometers north-south. The Casa Berardi mine gold deposits are located along a 5 kilometer east-west mineralized corridor.
Aurizon acquired the claims, leases and infrastructure comprising the Casa Berardi mine project in 1998 from TVX Gold Inc. Aurizon engaged in exploration programs beginning in 1998, and production began in late 2006.
The nearest commercial airport to the Casa Berardi mine is located at Rouyn-Noranda. La Sarre can be reached from Rouyn-Noranda via provincial roads 101 and 111. A 38 kilometer all-season gravel road accesses the mine from the paved Route des Conquérants road, which runs north from its intersection with road 393 north of La Sarre and passes through the village of Villebois. The mine access road intersection is approximately 21 kilometers north of Villebois. A gravel road links the East Mine and the West Mine (which roughly represent the east-west boundaries of the mining lease), and a number of forestry roads provide access to the rest of the project area, from east and west.
Hecla Quebec Inc., Hecla’s wholly owned subsidiary, owns a 100% interest in the mineral titles and mining leases comprising the current Casa Berardi operations. It is composed of 69 contiguous claims, covering 3,148.3 hectares (7,779.6 acres) and two mining leases covering 481.4 hectares (1,189.7 acres). The total area of the Casa Berardi property is 3,629.75 hectares (8,969.3 acres or approximately 14 square miles), and all the claims and leases are in good standing. We own an additional approximately 45 square miles of exploration property located adjacent to the current Casa Berardi operations and comprised of approximately 230 claims, most of which are subject to a 1% NSR royalty in favor of Lake Shore Gold Corp.
Under the Quebec Mining Act, claims are required to be renewed every two years. Statutorily prescribed minimum work commitments apply to all claims and leases. As of December 31, 2020, the claims and leases comprising part of the Casa Berardi mine have excess work credits of CAD$17.1 million. Claims and leases for our other projects in Quebec have excess work credits of CAD$29.5 million as of December 31, 2020. We also hold a non-exclusive lease for a sand and gravel pit, a tailings lease, and an additional 12 acres of land contiguous to a mining lease for rock waste material storage.
The mine and mill complex are permitted to process 1,600,000 dry metric tonnes (approximately 1,764,000 tons) of ore per year (4,900 tons per day). The mining operations consist of underground and open pit mines. The surface infrastructures include a cyanidation processing mill (carbon-in-leach), tailings impoundment areas, and other support facilities and infrastructure. The map below illustrates the location and access to Casa Berardi:
Prior to Aurizon’s ownership, the Casa Berardi underground mine operated from 1988 to 1997, producing approximately 3.9 million tons of ore at an average gold grade of 0.2 ounces per ton from the West Mine and the East Mine.
Casa Berardi can be classified as an Archean sedimentary-hosted orogenic gold deposit. Mineralization is found in large low-sulphide quartz veins developed against the Casa Berardi fault, and in disseminated sulfides and stockworks lenses associated with strongly carbonate-sericite altered ductile deformation zones obliquely oriented to the Casa Berardi fault, and extending a few hundred meters on both sides of the fault following northwest and northeast orientations. Gold mineralization emplacement was coeval with the fault`s evolution and shows a strong structural control and vertical extension, even if other factors such as the nature of some host rocks and lithological contacts seem to have favored gold deposition. The mineralization system is composed of large, low-sulfide quartz veins and low-grade stockworks and carbonate-mica replacement zones forming in the West Mine and Principal area.
Current reserves at the Casa Berardi mine comprise eight zones at the West Mine, spread over a moderate horizontal distance from each other and located at different mine elevations, plus open pit and underground areas at the East Mine.
The ore at Casa Berardi is extracted using a combination of underground and open pit mining methods. The underground mines at Casa Berardi are trackless and are accessed by a combination of ramps and a production shaft. The mining method is longhole stoping using a combination of traverse and longitudinal orientations depending upon the widths of the zone. The combined ore production rate from the underground zones is in the range of 2,000 to 2,200 tons per day.
Open pit mining is used to extract near surface mineralization, both above the existing underground mining horizons and in areas without economic underground resources. At present, one open pit mine is in production and another is being developed. Three additional pits are anticipated. The combined ore production rate from the open pit zones is highly variable depending on the mining sequence and ore release rates. Open pit ore is fed to the plant roughly in equal proportion to the underground ore and any surplus is stockpiled.
The mill utilizes a combination of gravity recovery for coarse gold and cyanidation for fine gold. The ore is crushed and ground to produce a slurry suitable for the subsequent recovery processes. Crushing and grinding is accomplished by a jaw crusher followed by a SAG mill and ball mill. Coarse gold reports to the gravity circuit consisting of Knelson concentrators followed by high intensity leaching and electrowinning. Fine gold reports to the cyanide leach train. Due to the presence of naturally occurring organic carbon in the ore, the Carbon-In-Leach ("CIL") approach is used in cyanidation circuit. Gold is adsorbed onto carbon in the leach train and later desorbed for electrowinning. Sludge from the electrowinning cells is melted in a furnace to produce doré, the final product produced at Casa Berardi. In 2020, the mill processed 1,283,701 tons, for an average of 3,699 tons per day.
Power supply to the site is provided by a 55 kilometer, 120kV power line from the Hydro-Québec transformation station located in the town of Normétal.
The employees at Casa Berardi are employees of Hecla Quebec Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 646 employees at the Casa Berardi unit at December 31, 2020. We also utilize third-party contractors, which use their employees and equipment, for some of the mining activities at Casa Berardi.
The current mine plan at Casa Berardi utilizes estimates of reserves and mineralized material for approximately 13 years of production, and includes anticipated production from the underground and open pit mine areas.
In-stope and definition underground drilling during 2020 concentrated within the 113, 118, 119, 123, 128, 148, and 152 zones to refine orebody shapes and gold grade distributions for mine planning and reserves. Underground exploration drilling of the 113, 118, 123, and 128 zones in the West Mine focused on expanding mineralization down-plunge and testing extensions to the west and to the east of each zone. Drilling of the 148 and 152 zones in the East Mine tested extensions of the previously identified high grade mineralization down plunge. Surface definition and exploration drilling continues to define limits for the 160 Pit and expands the 159 zone to the east which is open for expansion.
The currently contemplated underground in-stope and definition drilling programs for 2021 are expected to appraise the high-grade ore shoots of the 113, 118, 124, 123, 128, and 134 zones in the western part of the mine and high-grade extensions of the 146 and 148 zones in the East Mine. Surface definition drilling planned for 2021 is expected to focus on the 160 and WMCP zones. Exploration drilling from underground is currently expected to evaluate extensions of the 113, 118 and 128 zones in the western part of the mine and the 148, 152, and 157 zones in the East Mine, while surface drilling is expected to evaluate the high-grade potential of the western extension of the WMCP mineralized lenses at depth and to the west and the eastern extensions of the 160 and 159 zone lenses at depth and to the east.
Hecla acquired Aurizon on June 1, 2013 for approximately CAD$740.8 million (US$714.5 million), and has operated the Casa Berardi mine since the acquisition. The net book value of the Casa Berardi unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $635.8 million as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, we have recorded an $11.7 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We maintain a surety bond as financial guarantee for future reclamation and closure work.
Information with respect to the Casa Berardi unit’s production, cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from silver production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce represent non-GAAP measurements that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. The cutoff grade at Casa Berardi is assumed to be 0.101 ounces per ton for underground reserves and 0.025 ounces per ton for open pit reserves. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the prices of $1,300 per gold ounce for 2020 and 2019 and $1,200 per gold ounce for underground reserves and $1,225 for open pit reserves for 2018.
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2020 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries for gold of approximately 83% for underground reserves and 85% for open pit reserves.
(5)
The changes in reserves in 2020 compared to 2019 and in 2019 compared to 2018 resulted from depletion of the deposit through production, partially offset by inclusion of definition drilling information.
(6)
Casa Berardi reserve estimates were prepared by Real Parent, Principal Resource Geologist, Frederic Pare, Geology Superintendent, and Herman De Los Rios, Engineering Superintendent, at the Casa Berardi unit. Casa Berardi resource estimates were reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Geologist, and Kurt Allen, Director of Exploration, at Hecla Limited.
The San Sebastian Unit
The San Sebastian mine is located approximately 60 miles northeast of the city of Durango, Mexico, on concessions acquired in 1999. Access to San Sebastian is via Mexico highway 40, approximately 6 miles east of Guadalupe Victoria, and then approximately 15 miles of paved rural road through the towns of Ignacio Allende and Emiliano Zapata.
Our concession holdings cover approximately 160 square miles, including the Francine Vein, East Francine Vein, Middle Vein, North Vein, and the Andrea Vein and multiple outlying active exploration areas. Mineral concession titles are obtained and held under the laws of Mexico, and are valid for 50 years with the possibility of extending another 50 years. There are work assessment and tax requirements that are variable and increase with the time that the concession is held. The map below illustrates the location and access to San Sebastian:
Mineralization at the project occurs as low and intermediate sulfidation epithermal veins within the Saladillo valley area. Historically, the most important veins at the project have been the Francine, East Francine, Middle and North veins located at the north end of the Saladillo valley and the Andrea Vein located 4 miles to the south. The veins are hosted within a series of shales with interbedded fine-grained sandstones interpreted to belong to the Cretaceous Caracol Formation. Most of the veins strike to the west-northwest and vein dips vary from steep toward the west to shallow toward the east. True vein widths range from 5 to 30 feet, and the average true width of the veins in the district is 8 feet.
Mineralization occurs in an epithermal setting at various paleo-depths. High-grade gold and silver occur both in the very shallow environment in the upper 1,000 feet of the crust and in deep silver-gold-lead-zinc root zones of the system at depths between 2,000 and 3,500 feet below the paleo-water table. Hypogene minerals include sphalerite, galena, argentite, pyrite, chalcopyrite, native silver and gold in electrum. The veins are oxidized down to approximately 300 feet below surface and the oxidized portions of the veins contain limonite, hematite, silver halides and various copper carbonates. Matrix minerals include fine-grained to coarsely crystalline quartz bands and chlorite-quartz-adularia bands and late calcite fill. Mineralization within the vein structures is generally deposited in high-grade “shoots” bound both laterally and horizontally by sharp gradients in grade-thickness.
Hecla operated the San Sebastian underground mine from 2001 to 2005. The life-of-mine production from the Francine and Don Sergio veins over four years was 11.2 million ounces of silver and 155,937 ounces of gold.
Hecla again operated San Sebastian using open pit and underground methods from 2015 to 2020. Production began with open pit mining and underground mining was added by 2018. The historical production during this period was 77.7 million ounces of silver and 1.4 million ounces of gold. Access to the underground workings was through ramps from the surface connecting one or more levels. Ore was mined by the cut-and-fill stoping method and extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in trucks. In the fourth quarter of 2020, San Sebastian was placed into care and maintenance upon depletion of the known economic resource. Exploration is ongoing.
Run of mine ore was hauled in trucks by contractors to a toll processing facility near Velardeña, Durango, Mexico, which is located approximately 60 miles from the San Sebastian mine site. Before completion of production, processing of ore averaged approximately 474 tons per day in 2020, with recovery of approximately 91% for silver and 82% for gold.
Electric power is purchased from Comisiòn Federal de Electricidad (a Mexico federal electric company).
There was a total of 30 employees at the San Sebastian unit as of December 31, 2020, with most of them employed by our subsidiary that provides certain specialized services to another subsidiary that owns the mine. These employees are not represented by a bargaining agent. We have primarily used third-party contractors for mining and operation of the processing facility. The hourly employees of the owner of the processing facility are represented by the Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores Mineros, Metalúrgicos, Siderúrgicos y Similares de la República Mexicana (a Mexico national union) as bargaining agent.
At December 31, 2020, the net book value of the San Sebastian unit property and its associated plant and equipment was $7.8 million. Infrastructure includes the underground mine portal and development, a water supply system, maintenance shop, warehouse, laboratory, leased mill and related improvements, and various offices. Equipment and facilities are in good condition. As of December 31, 2020, $6.9 million has been accrued for reclamation and closure costs. All permits required for current mining of the open pits and the underground mine and operation of the mill are in place.
In late 2018 and early 2019, a new vein, called the El Toro Vein, was discovered approximately 1.3 miles south of the San Sebastian Mine Area under thick soil cover. Drilling throughout 2019 at the El Toro Vein area defined oxide mineralization over 1.3 miles of strike length and 900 feet downdip. In late 2019 infill drilling was conducted on key portions of the El Toro Vein. With the recent El Toro discovery, we believe the combined strike length of the primary veins at the project (Francine, Andrea, Middle, North and El Toro) is over 6 miles.
Exploration activities in 2020 consisted primarily of core drilling at two recently discovered veins, referred to as the El Bronco and El Tigre Veins, discovered under soil cover through our 2020 Short Vertical Reverse Circulation ("SVRC") drilling program. SVRC drilling has proven to be an effective method for exploring for new veins under thick soil cover.
For 2021, additional core drilling is planned at the El Bronco and El Tigre Vein target areas. The 2021 SVRC drilling program is expected to focus on the soil covered areas located south and west of the San Sebastian Mine; an area that we believe to be highly prospective for the discovery of new veins. A new generation high resolution airborne spectral survey is also planned to be flown at the San Sebastian unit in 2021 for detail mapping of hydrothermal alteration.
Information with respect to the San Sebastian unit’s production, cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-Product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Silver Ounce represent non-GAAP measurements that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at San Sebastian, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return, rather than metal grade. The average prices used for the San Sebastian unit were:
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore. Metal recoveries vary by mine zone and ore grade.
(5)
The changes in silver and gold reserves in 2020 compared to 2019 and 2019 compared to 2018 were the result of depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
San Sebastian reserve estimates were prepared by Joshua Pritts, Resource Geologist, and Alberto Ramos, Mining Engineer, at Hecla Limited, and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Geologist and Kurt Allen, Director of Exploration, at Hecla Limited.
The Nevada Operations Unit
As a result of our acquisition of Klondex in July 2018, we obtained 100% ownership of the Fire Creek mine, Hollister mine, Midas mine and milling facility, Aurora mine and milling facility, and various other mineral interests comprising a total land position of approximately 110 square miles in north central Nevada and the Walker Lane.
The employees at the Nevada Operations unit are employees of Klondex Gold & Silver Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 76 employees at the Nevada Operations unit at December 31, 2020.
As of December 31, 2020, the total net book value of the properties, plants, equipment and mineral interests at the Nevada Operations unit was approximately $474.3 million.
As of December 31, 2020, we recorded a $26.1 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs at the Nevada Operations unit. We maintain a surety bond as financial guarantee for future reclamation and closure work.
Additional information on the Nevada Operations properties is below.
Fire Creek
In 1975, Klondex acquired the property as a very early stage exploration project. Fire Creek is located in north-central Nevada in Lander County, and to a lesser extent Eureka County, approximately 16 miles south of a major highway (Interstate 80) near other large gold deposits and mines which are owned and operated by major mining companies. Access to Fire Creek from Interstate 80 is by State Road 306, a good-quality road. Company-maintained mine and exploration roads provide access throughout the property. Fire Creek is a high-grade, epithermal vein deposit, and the land package covers approximately 18,755 acres (approximately 20.7 square miles), consisting of approximately 831 unpatented mining claims, and both leased and owned private fee lands. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the United States Bureau of Land Management ("BLM"). Property fees are paid annually to the county in which they are held. To maintain our unpatented claims, we must file an annual notice of intent to maintain the claims within the county they are located and pay the annual mineral claim maintenance fees to the BLM. Certain of Fire Creek's claims are subject to various net smelter return ("NSR") royalties and have no expiration date. In addition, Fire Creek is subject to a 2.5% NSR royalty for all production commencing in 2019, which also has no expiration date. Fire Creek consists of an underground, mechanized narrow vein mine, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, and administrative buildings, all of which are in operating condition. The map below illustrates the location and access to Fire Creek:
Mineralization at Fire Creek occurs in steeply dipping epithermal veins within Tertiary basalt flows and intrusive rocks. The mineralized basaltic rocks are a suite of mafic, extrusive rocks associated with the regional north-northwest-trending Northern Nevada Rift ("NNR") structural zone.
The deposit is a low-sulfidation epithermal deposit vertically-zoned within high-angle northwest striking structures, hosted in a mid-Miocene basalt package. Mineralization occurs as shallow structurally-controlled fault hosted gold mineralization in variably altered Tertiary basalts and as native gold in steeply dipping quartz-calcite veins or structures. A package of middle Miocene basalt and basaltic andesite flow has been cut by high-angle normal faults related to both NNR and Basin and Range extension that form grabens and half-grabens which are the structural controls in the district.
High-grade mineralization has been delineated between approximately 4,900 feet and 5,700 feet above sea level and is open both up and down dip as well as along strike.
The Fire Creek mine is a trackless mine accessed by a decline, and historically produced approximately 350 tons of ore per day. The mining method is primarily longhole stoping, with ramp access. Oxide ore mined at Fire Creek is trucked approximately 165 miles to the Midas mill for processing, which is discussed in the Midas section below. Processing of a bulk sample of refractory material at a third-party facility is in progress.
Fire Creek receives electrical power provided by NV Energy, a major Nevada power company.
The developed oxide resources at Fire Creek will be depleted in the first quarter of 2021. Mining of a 30,000 ton bulk test of refractory (Type 2) ore occurred in the latter half of 2020. The bulk test demonstrated that larger scale, more productive methods could be applied successfully to this material. Ground conditions were as good or better than expected and water in the test area was readily managed. The bulk test demonstrated that larger scale, more productive mining methods could be applied successfully to this material. The bulk test refractory ore is being processed by a third party through a tolling agreement. While the processing is not yet complete, the recovery information to date is following the grade-recovery curve established through bench testing. Metal prices increased significantly since the tolling agreement was signed, and it is no longer attractive for the third party to displace their own feed to toll. Discussions are underway with another processor. With the developed oxide resource depleted and no immediate alternative for the refractory material, Fire Creek is expected to be placed into care and maintenance in the second quarter of 2021.
In 2020, definition drilling at Fire Creek focused on infill drilling the Titan Zone inferred resource area, with smaller definition drilling programs offsetting two high-grade drill intercepts, one below Spiral 4 and one in the upper Spiral 4 areas. Geologic modeling of these zones is in progress and we believe all assay results should be received in the first quarter of 2021.
At the Fire Creek mine, the 2021 exploration program is currently expected to be limited to detailed mapping, sampling and alteration mineral spectroscopy designed to evaluate vein targets within our extensive property.
Hollister
The Hollister property has been operated since the 1900s by various mining companies which mined mercury in the early 1900s and gold and silver in the late part of the century. Hecla was in an earn-in arrangement for an ownership interest in Hollister from 2002 to 2007, when Hecla sold its interest. Klondex acquired the property in October 2016. Hollister is a fully-permitted past producing underground and open pit operation. It is located in north-central Nevada in Elko County, approximately 61.5 miles east-northeast of Winnemucca, Nevada and 17 miles southeast from the Midas mine. Hollister is accessed by all-weather paved and gravel county roads. Hollister is comprised of 1,005 unpatented lode claims and 11 unpatented mill site claims that cover an area in excess of 15,000 acres, and an additional 209 unpatented lode claims through agreements covering approximately 4,320 acres. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands administered by the BLM. To maintain our unpatented claims in good standing, we must file an annual notice of intent to maintain the claims with the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. Certain claims and areas of Hollister are subject to royalties, including seven separate NSR royalties ranging from 1% to 5%, and a 1% NSR royalty after 500,000 ounces of gold production occurring from October 3, 2016, when Klondex acquired the property. There is no expiration date on the aforementioned royalties. Hollister includes an underground mine, former open pit mines, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, and administrative buildings, all of which are in operating condition. The map below illustrates the location and access to Hollister:
The Hollister mine is located along the NNR, and is on trend with the north-western end of the Carlin Trend, which is approximately 5 miles wide and 40 miles long. Mineralization is related to the Miocene period of magmatic activity associated with the NNR while gold mineralization on the Carlin Trend has been dated to late Eocene/early Oligocene magmatism.
The Hollister property also includes the Hatter Graben vein system, which is located approximately 2,500 feet east of the Hollister mine's underground development and has been down dropped approximately 800 feet lower than the current mine resource. The system of mineralized veins has a known vertical extent of 1,400 feet and strike length of 2,000 feet. This East-West trending zone is open along strike to the east and west and at depth and mineralization is strengthening in the east as historic high-grade intersections occur up to 4,000 feet along strike to the east. The first surface holes were initiated at Hatter Graben in the third quarter of 2018 with the intent to extend the current identified mineralized material east and west. Drill holes at 300-foot intervals have intersected swarms with multiple veins and mineralized breccias at the anticipated distance. Development of a drift from the Hollister mine's underground workings to the Hatter Graben area commenced in the third quarter of 2018 and was suspended in the second quarter of 2019.
The Hollister mine is a trackless mine accessed by a decline. Due to variability within the Hollister mine material, a selective mining approach is employed by matching mining methodology to stope characteristics. As discussed below, ore mined at Hollister was trucked to the Midas mill for processing, and the resulting loaded carbon was stripped at the Aurora mill. The Hollister mine is not in production.
Hollister receives electrical power provided by NV Energy.
With Fire Creek moving into care and maintenance, the focus will shift to exploring the Hatter Graben vein system in 2021. Crews and equipment will be redeployed to resume the exploration decline, and underground drilling will commence as drill platforms are established. Detailed mapping, sampling, alteration mineral spectroscopy, and geophysical surveys will be used to further define targets on the property.
Midas
The Midas mining district has historic gold production dating as early as 1907. Since modern mining began in 1998, 2.2 million ounces of gold and 26.9 million ounces of silver have been produced by three previous owners prior to Klondex acquiring the property. Klondex acquired the fully-permitted Midas mine and ore milling facility in February 2014. Midas is located in north-central Nevada in Elko County and lies about 58 miles east of Winnemucca on Nevada State Highway 789, and one mile from the town of Midas, Nevada. Midas is a high-grade, epithermal vein deposit, and the land package covers approximately 30,000 acres (~47 square miles), which includes fee lands, federal unpatented mining claims, seven mining leases, BLM rights-of-way, general agreements, easements, and surface use agreements, with varied terms and annual payments. Within the land package, there are 1,489 federal unpatented mining claims, of which 1,456 are owned and 33 are leased. Owned and leased fee lands comprise approximately 2,985 acres of the land package which is a mix of surface-mineral rights and surface rights only. Our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. Property fees on fee lands are paid annually to the county in which they are held. To maintain our unpatented claims, an annual notice of intent must be filed with the respective county, in addition to paying the annual mineral claim maintenance fees to the BLM. Certain of the Midas claims are subject to a royalty. Midas is also subject to a 2.5% NSR royalty from all production commencing in 2019, and there is no expiration date on the royalty. Midas includes an underground, mechanized narrow vein mine, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, a Merrill-Crowe refining facility, a milling circuit, and administrative buildings, all of which are in operating condition.
The map below illustrates the location and access to Midas:
Gold and silver mineralization at Midas is hosted in several northwest-striking veins. The veins are divided into four principal groups based on their location and orientation. The two principal groups that host the majority of the identified mineralized material are the Main Veins and East Veins. The Main Veins dip easterly and are gold dominant, while the East Veins dip to the west and contain higher silver content than the Main Veins. The Main Veins produced more than 2.2 million ounces of gold and 26.9 million ounces of silver between 1998 and 2013, principally from the Colorado Grande and Gold Crown Veins. Initial development and production from the East Veins began in 2012. The third group of veins is comprised of the Queen and Trinity Veins located to the south of the existing workings and south of the regional South Owyhee Fault. They are defined by limited underground and surface drilling and there has been no mine production from them to date. The Queen Vein and Trinity Vein systems represent high-priority, near-mine exploration targets.
Mineralized material has been identified on the Main and East veins and other veins near the recently active mine workings. Active drill testing has recently taken place in these areas and has been prioritized based on ounce expectations, accessibility from existing development and geotechnical, ventilation, and hydrological considerations.
The Midas mine is a modern, mechanized narrow vein mine. The veins at Midas can vary in thickness from a few inches to over ten feet. Production at the Midas mine was suspended in the fourth quarter of 2019.
In 2020, surface exploration efforts through the first three quarters of the year focused on target definition within the district through detailed mapping, sampling, alteration mineral spectroscopy, and CSAMT geophysical surveys. This early field work defined 7 high-priority drill targets (Green Racer Sinter, SV1, North Block, Elko Prince, Southern Cross, Jackknife Ridge and G3) that were drill tested in the fourth quarter of 2020. All assay results from this drilling are expected in the first quarter of 2021, but assay results received to date show high-grade intersections from 4 of the 7 targets drilled.
At Midas, the 2021 exploration program is expected to consist primarily of additional detailed mapping, sampling, and alteration mineral spectroscopy to define additional drill targets and core drilling to offset the high-grade intersections from the 2020 drilling program.
Midas Mill
Oxide ore from the Fire Creek, Midas and Hollister mines historically has been processed at the Midas mill, which has a design capacity of 1,200 tons per day. Fire Creek and Midas ore previously was processed using a counter current decantation ("CCD") circuit, with Hollister ore processed using a CIL circuit. However, all ore was subsequently processed using the CIL circuit beginning in April 2019. Run-of-mine ore is crushed to 100% passing one-half inch in a conventional two-stage crushing circuit which utilizes a primary jaw crusher and a secondary cone crusher with the circuit closed by a double deck vibrating screen. The crushed product reports to the grinding circuit consisting of an 800 horsepower overflow ball mill and a 250 horsepower verti-mill. The circuit is closed using a bank of four (three operating, one standby) 10-inch cyclones. A portion of the cyclone underflow is sent to a gravity concentrator to remove coarse gold. The gravity concentrate is leached using an Acacia intense cyanidation unit with the gravity tail returned to the grinding circuit for further processing. The ground product is thickened before being leached with cyanide for 72 hours in a series of eight leach tanks. Thickener underflow is pumped to the first in a series of four CIL tanks. The pregnant solution from the Acacia reactor also reports to the first CIL tank. Sodium cyanide is added to the first tank to enable gold leaching. Each of the four tanks are equipped with a carbon retention screen and a carbon advance pump. The first and fourth tanks also have a loaded carbon screen on the top of the tanks. The slurry flows through the retention screens to the next successive tank and is ultimately pumped to cyanide detoxification and to the tailings facility. New carbon is added to the fourth tank and is pumped counter current to the slurry flow from the fourth tank, progressively upstream, until loaded carbon is pumped over the screen on the first tank and into carbon transport bags. The carbon transport bags are then loaded on a truck and shipped for sale to third-party processors, or hauled to the Aurora mill where they are stripped. The sludge from stripping at the Aurora mill is collected and shipped to the Midas refinery to be poured into doré bars. The bars are shipped off site for further refining by a third party.
When the CCD circuit is utilized for Fire Creek and Midas ore, the leached slurry from the leach tanks reports to a conventional five-stage counter current decantation circuit with the overflow solution from the first thickener, together with the pregnant solution from the Acacia reactor, reporting to the Merrill-Crowe circuit where zinc dust is used to precipitate the precious metal from solution. The underflow from the fifth thickener is treated to eliminate the remaining cyanide and pumped to the tailings storage facility. The precipitate is retorted to remove mercury before being smelted and poured into doré bars. The bars are shipped off site for further refining by a third party.
For 2020, total mill recovery of gold and silver was approximately 92% and 79%, respectively. The Midas mill was used for batch processing of Fire Creek oxide ore and is on standby to process the stockpiled Fire Creek ore in the first quarter of 2021. The mill will be placed into care and maintenance when that processing is complete.
Midas receives electrical power provided by NV Energy.
Aurora
Gold was discovered in 1860 on the Aurora property and since that time various companies have mined from this location. Klondex acquired the property in October 2016. The Aurora project includes fully-permitted past producing underground mine and open pit mine operations, which are currently inactive. Aurora is located in west central Nevada 10 miles from the California border in Mineral County, approximately 20 miles west of Hawthorne, Nevada. Access is provided by all-weather paved and gravel county roads. Aurora consists of 92 patented mining claims, 944 acres of fee lands, and 448 unpatented lode-mining claims, totaling approximately 9,928 contiguous acres that encompass the entire district. Patented claims occupy private lands and our unpatented claims occupy public lands, administered by the BLM. To maintain our patented claims in good standing, we must pay the annual property fee payments to the county in which the claims are held. To maintain our unpatented claims in good standing, we must file an annual notice of intent to maintain the claims with the county and pay the annual mineral claim filing fees to the BLM. A portion of the patented and unpatented claims owned or leased by us and the leased fee lands are subject to underlying royalties, including a 3% royalty that would be split among two companies.
Aurora includes an underground mine, former open pit mines, related mine support infrastructure, mining equipment, a milling circuit with permitted tailings storage facility, and administrative buildings, all of which are in operating condition. Aurora is not in production.
The site has access to three-phase overland power from Nevada Energy.
The map below illustrates the location and access to Aurora:
Aurora is located within the Walker Lane structural belt of western Nevada. The Walker Lane is characterized by northwest-trending en echelon right-lateral strike slip faults that have tilted and rotated structural blocks since mid-Miocene through the Quaternary. Mineralization at Aurora occurs as low-sulfidation epithermal veins, breccias, and stockwork zones in Miocene intermediate to felsic composition volcanic rocks.
The Aurora mill is a traditional crush-grind-CIL (Carbon in Leach) processing facility. Run of mine ore is sized through a jaw crusher. The sized ore is fed to a SAG mill followed by two ball mills operating in parallel to produce slurry for the CIL train which consists of nine tanks followed by a detox tank. Depleted slurry reports to the tailings storage facility. Active carbon moves through the CIL circuit counter-current to the slurry flow. Loaded carbon is stripped, regenerated, and returned to the circuit. The gold rich strip solution proceeds to electrowinning cells where it is precipitated and recovered. The precipitate is retorted to remove mercury and then melted with flux in a furnace to produce doré. The doré is sold to refiners. As mentioned previously, the carbon strip and electrowinning circuits at Aurora were used to process carbon from the Midas mill in some instances. The Aurora mill was placed on care-and-maintenance in 2020.
In 2020, exploration efforts at Aurora focused on an exploration potential data review of the district followed by hyperspectral, LiDAR, airborne magnetic/radiometric, gravity, and CSAMT geophysical surveys of the property. In 2021, we expect our exploration focus at Aurora to be on detailed mapping, sampling, and alteration mineral spectroscopy to follow up on targets generated by the review and surveys generated in 2020.
Information with respect to the Nevada Operation unit’s production, cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, average Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce, and proven and probable ore reserves for the last three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from silver production. Cash Cost, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce and AISC, After By-product Credits, Per Gold Ounce represent non-GAAP measurements that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe these measurements provide indicators of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other operating mining properties. A reconciliation of cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, to these non-GAAP measures can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Cost of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP) to Cash Cost, Before By-product Credits and Cash Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP) and All-In Sustaining Cost, Before By-product Credits and All-In Sustaining Cost, After By-product Credits (non-GAAP).
(2)
The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a time frame consistent with our current mine plans.
(3)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve metals price assumptions, anticipated mill recoveries and refiner payables, and cash operating costs. The cutoff grade assumption is 0.482 gold-equivalent ounces per ton at Fire Creek. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on prices of $1,300 per ounce for gold and $16.00 per ounce for silver for 2020, $1,300 per ounce for gold and $14.50 per ounce for silver for 2019 and $1,200 per ounce for gold and $14.50 per ounce for silver for 2018.
(4)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. The 2020 reserve model assumes average total mill recoveries for gold and silver of approximately 91% and 63%, respectively, for Fire Creek.
(5)
The changes in gold and silver reserves in 2020 compared to 2019 and 2019 compared to 2018 were the result of depletion of the deposit through production.
(6)
Fire Creek resource and reserve estimates were prepared by Agapito Orozco, Senior Resource Geologist, Sarah Bull, Senior Mining Engineer, and Bryan Farbridge, Chief Engineer, at the Nevada Operations unit and reviewed by Keith Blair, Chief Geologist, and Kurt Allen, Director of Exploration, at Hecla Limited.
Item 3.