Item 2. Property Descriptions
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
Our various subsidiaries own 100% of the Greens Creek Mine, located in Southeast Alaska, which has been in production since 1989, with a temporary care and maintenance period from April 1993 through July 1996. Since the start of production, Greens Creek has been owned and operated through various joint venture arrangements involving a variety of partners, including us. For approximately 15 years prior to April 16, 2008, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek. On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a 70.3% interest in the Greens Creek mine for approximately $758.5 million. The acquisition gives our various subsidiaries control of 100% of the Greens Creek mine.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies adjacent to the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 17 patented lode claims and one patented mill site claim, in addition to property leased from the U.S. Forest Service. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,500 acres of federal land adjacent to the properties. The entire project is accessed by boat and served by 13 miles of road and consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities and a ferry dock. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs discontinuously along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the U.S. Forest Service and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,500 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to federal royalties included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no production triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than $120 per ton of ore, and 0.75% if the value is $120 per ton or less. The benchmark of $120 per ton is adjusted annually according to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Implicit Price Deflator until the year 2016, and at December 31, 2011, was at approximately $164 per ton when applying the latest GDP Implicit Price Deflator observation.
Greens Creek is an underground mine which produces approximately 2,100 to 2,300 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The ore is processed on site at a mill, which produces lead, zinc and bulk concentrates, as well as gold doré. In 2011, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,115 tons per day. During 2011, mill recovery totaled approximately 73% silver, 79% zinc, 68% lead and 62% gold. The doré is further refined by precious metal refiners and sold to banks, and the three concentrate products are sold to a number of major smelters worldwide. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the significant customers for Greens Creek’s products. Concentrates are shipped from a marine terminal located on Admiralty Island about nine miles from the mine site.
Electricity for the Greens Creek unit has historically been provided by diesel generators located on site. However, an agreement was reached during 2005 to purchase excess hydroelectric power from the local power company, Alaska Electric Light and Power Company (“AEL&P”). Installation of the necessary infrastructure was completed in 2006, and use of hydroelectric power commenced during the third quarter of 2006. The infrastructure is also used to provide power to surrounding communities. This project has reduced production costs at Greens Creek to the extent power has been available. Prior to 2009, the low lake levels combined with the increased demand in the Juneau area restricted the amount of power available to Green Creek. In 2009 and 2010 , the mine received an increased proportion of its power needs from AEL&P. Hydroelectric power was also available during 2011, but to a lesser extent compared to the previous two years due to lower precipitation. When weather conditions are not favorable to maintain lake water levels, the mine relies on diesel generated power.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 364 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2011.
As of December 31, 2011, we have recorded a $36.1 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. We continue to maintain a $30 million reclamation bond for Greens Creek. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $670 million as of December 31, 2011.
Based on current ore reserve estimates, the currently known remaining mine life at Greens Creek is 10 years. Information with respect to production, average costs per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Part II, Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Estimates of proven and probable ore reserves for the Greens Creek unit as of December 2011, 2010 and 2009 are calculated and reviewed in-house and are derived from successive generations of reserve and feasibility analyses for different areas of the mine, using a separate assessment of metals prices for each year. The average prices used for the Greens Creek unit were:
(3)
Ore reserves represent in-place material, diluted and adjusted for expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries of ore reserve grades differ with ore grades and are expected to average 73% for silver, 62% for gold, 87% for zinc and 77% for lead.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2011 versus 2010 are due to continued depletion of the deposit through production, partially offset by increases in forecasted precious metals prices. The changes in reserves in 2010 versus 2009 were due to the lower ore grades for gold, zinc, and lead combined with continued depletion of the deposit, partially offset by increases in forecasted metals prices and additional drilling at the East ore zone.
(5)
We only report probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit, which are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by orebody and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at Greens Creek, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade was $160 per ton NSR.
(6)
Greens Creek ore reserve estimates were prepared by Ben Gage, Senior Resource Geologist at the Greens Creek unit and reviewed by John Taylor, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited.
(7)
An independent review by AMEC E&C, Inc. was completed in 2010 for the 2009 reserve models for the 5250 and 9A zones.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday unit, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The ore body is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of ore bodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous ore body in and along the Lucky Friday vein. The major part of the ore body has extended from 1,200 feet to 6,020 feet below surface.
The second ore-bearing structure, known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, has been mined since 1997 pursuant to an operating agreement with Silver Hunter Mining Company (“Silver Hunter”), our wholly owned subsidiary. During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. At approximately 4,900 feet below surface, the Gold Hunter veins are hosted in a 200-foot thick siliceous lens within the Wallace Formation that transitions to the St. Regis Formation below 5,900 feet. The veins are sub-parallel, and are numbered consecutively from the hanging wall of the favorable horizon to the footwall. The strike of the vein system is west-northwest with a dip of 85 degrees to the south. The 30-vein, which has demonstrated to contain higher silver grades, represents approximately 73% of our current proven and probable ore reserve tonnages, while the remaining 27% of our reserves are contained in various intermediate veins having lower silver grades than 30-vein. While the veins share many characteristics with the Lucky Friday vein, the Gold Hunter area possesses some mineralogical and rock mechanics differences that make it more favorable to mine at this time. On November 6, 2008, we, through Silver Hunter, completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company (“Independence”), including all future interest or royalty obligation to Independence and the mining claims pertaining to the operating agreement with Hecla Limited that was assigned to Silver Hunter.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the ore body. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
The ore produced from Lucky Friday is processed in a conventional flotation mill, which produces both a lead concentrate and a zinc concentrate. In 2011, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 905 tons per day. During 2011, mill recovery totaled approximately 93% silver, 93% lead and 87% zinc. All silver-lead and zinc concentrate production during 2011 was shipped to Teck Cominco Limited’s smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Based on current reserve estimates, the currently known remaining mine life at the Lucky Friday is approximately 25 years. Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, average cost per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provides an indicator of economic performance and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at the Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at the Lucky Friday ranges from $74 per ton NSR to $92 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries are expected to be 93% for silver, 93% for lead and 87% for zinc.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2011 versus 2010 are due to addition of data from new drill holes and development work, an increase in mining widths in areas utilizing mechanized mining, and increases in forecasted metals prices, which has resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates, partially offset by depletion due to production. The changes in reserves in 2010 versus 2009, and in 2009 versus 2008, are due to addition of data from new drill holes and development work, higher ore grades, and increases in forecasted metals prices, which resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates, partially offset by depletion due to production.
(5)
Lucky Friday ore reserve estimates were prepared by Terry DeVoe, Chief Geologist at the Lucky Friday unit and reviewed by John Taylor, Senior Resource Geologist at Hecla Limited.
(6)
An independent audit by Scott Wilson Roscoe Postle Associates Inc. was completed in January 2010 for the 2009 reserve model at the Lucky Friday mine.
A number of accidents and other events have recently impacted operations at the Lucky Friday. In April 2011, a fall of ground caused the fatality of one employee, resulting in cessation of operations for approximately 10 days. In November 2011, an accident occurred as part of the construction of #4 Shaft and resulted in the fatality of one contractor employee. In an unrelated incident, in December 2011, a rock burst occurring in a primary access way at the Lucky Friday injured seven employees, with no fatalities as a result of that incident. At the end of 2011, the Mine Safety Health Administration began a special impact inspection at the Lucky Friday which resulted in an order to remove loose material from the Silver Shaft, the primary access way from surface at the Lucky Friday mine. In response, we submitted a plan to MSHA and received approval to remove the loose cementitious material. In addition, the plan includes removal of unused utilities, construction of a water ring to prevent ice from forming in the winter, the installation of a metal brattice, repair of shaft steel, and installation of a new power cable, all of which should improve the shaft's functionality and possibly improve the shaft's hoisting capacity. Once the shaft cleanup has been complete down to the 4900 level, work on a haulage way bypassing the area at the 5900 level impacted by the December 2011 rock burst is expected to commence. Underground access will be limited (e.g., to allow maintenance of pumps in the mine) as this work is being performed, and we anticipate that production at the Lucky Friday mine will be suspended until early 2013 as a result. We anticipate returning to full production levels at the Lucky Friday once the Silver Shaft work and work related to the 5900 haulage way bypass is complete.
During 2008, we initiated engineering, procurement and development activities relating to construction of #4 Shaft at the Lucky Friday mine, which, upon completion, would provide access from the 4900 level down to the 8800 level of the mine. The project was temporarily placed on hold in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to then prevailing metals prices. However, detailed engineering, long lead time procurement, and other early-stage activities for the internal shaft project resumed in 2009. Activities in 2010 and 2011 included engineering, erection of a surface concrete batch plant, and work on #4 Shaft, including: detailed shaft design, excavation of the hoist room and off shaft development access to shaft facilities, installation of the hoist and head works, placement and receipt of orders for major equipment purchases, advancement of a geotechnical drill hole, 367 feet of vertical excavation, shaft-sinking set-up, and other construction activities. Upon completion, #4 Shaft would allow us to mine mineralized material below our current workings and provide deeper platforms for exploration. The Board of Directors approved the #4 Shaft project in its entirety in August 2011. Construction of #4 Shaft is expected to take approximately three more years to complete after re-commencement, and capital expenditures for the project are forecast to total approximately $200 million, including approximately $90 million spent on the project through December 31, 2011. As a result of the requirement to remove any loose material from the Silver Shaft (discussed above), work on the #4 Shaft project will be suspended until the Silver Shaft rehabilitation is completed. We believe that our current capital resources will allow us to proceed at that time. However, there are a number of factors that could affect completion of the project, including a significant decline in metals prices or a significant increase in operating or capital costs. An increase in the capital cost could potentially require us to suspend the project or access additional capital though debt financing, the sale of securities, or other external sources. This additional financing could be costly or unavailable.
Reclamation activities are anticipated to include stabilization of tailings ponds and waste rock areas. No final reclamation activities were performed at Lucky Friday in 2011, and at December 31, 2011, an asset retirement obligation of approximately $1.5 million had been recorded for reclamation and closure costs. The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $202 million as of December 31, 2011. The construction of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2011. The plant is maintained by our employees with assistance from outside contractors as needed.
At December 31, 2011, there were 285 employees at the Lucky Friday unit. United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial, and Service Workers International Union is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 217 hourly employees. The current labor agreement expires on April 30, 2016. As a result of the requirement to remove loose material from the Silver Shaft (discussed above), which will limit underground access and temporarily suspend production at the Lucky Friday, Hecla Limited laid off 121 employees in January 2012, with approximately 25 of those employees accepting temporary positions at other Hecla operations. We anticipate that employment levels at the Lucky Friday will return to where they were at prior to the suspension of production as the Silver Shaft work is completed.
Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
Item 3.