Item 2. Property Descriptions
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Greens Creek Unit
On April 16, 2008, we completed the acquisition of all of the equity of two Rio Tinto subsidiaries holding a 70.3% interest in the Greens Creek mine for approximately $750 million. The acquisition gives our various subsidiaries control of 100% of the Greens Creek mine, as our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hecla Alaska LLC, owned an undivided 29.7% joint venture interest in the assets of Greens Creek prior to our acquisition of the remaining 70.3% interest.
The Greens Creek orebody contains silver, zinc, gold and lead, and lies adjacent to the Admiralty Island National Monument, an environmentally sensitive area. The Greens Creek property includes 17 patented lode claims and one patented mill site claim, in addition to property leased from the U.S. Forest Service. Greens Creek also has title to mineral rights on 7,500 acres of federal land adjacent to the properties. The entire project is accessed by boat and served by 13 miles of road and consists of the mine, an ore concentrating mill, a tailings impoundment area, a ship-loading facility, camp facilities and a ferry dock. The map below illustrates the location and access to Greens Creek:
The Greens Creek deposit is a polymetallic, stratiform, massive sulfide deposit. The host rock consists of predominantly marine sedimentary, and mafic to ultramafic volcanic and plutonic rocks, which have been subjected to multiple periods of deformation. These deformational episodes have imposed intense tectonic fabrics on the rocks. Mineralization occurs discontinuously along the contact between a structural hanging wall of quartz mica carbonate phyllites and a structural footwall of graphitic and calcareous argillite. Major sulfide minerals are pyrite, sphalerite, galena, and tetrahedrite/tennanite.
Pursuant to a 1996 land exchange agreement, the joint venture transferred private property equal to a value of $1.0 million to the U.S. Forest Service and received exploration and mining rights to approximately 7,500 acres of land with mining potential surrounding the existing mine. Production from new ore discoveries on the exchanged lands will be subject to federal royalties included in the land exchange agreement. The royalty is only due on production from reserves that are not part of Greens Creek’s extralateral rights. Thus far, there has been no discovery triggering payment of the royalty. The royalty is 3% if the average value of the ore during a year is greater than $120 per ton of ore, and 0.75% if the value is $120 per ton or less. The benchmark of $120 per ton is adjusted annually according to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Implicit Price Deflator until the year 2016, and at December 31, 2008, was at approximately $157 per ton when applying the latest GDP Implicit Price Deflator observation.
Greens Creek is an underground mine which produces approximately 2,100 tons of ore per day. The primary mining methods are cut and fill and longhole stoping. The ore is processed on site at a mill, which produces lead, zinc and bulk concentrates, as well as doré containing silver and gold. In 2008, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 2,008 tons per day. During 2008, mill recovery totaled approximately 73% silver, 87% zinc, 78% lead and 64% gold. The doré is sold to a precious metal refiner and on the open market and the three concentrate products are sold to a number of major smelters worldwide. Concentrates are shipped from a marine terminal located on Admiralty Island about nine miles from the mine site.
The Greens Creek unit has historically been powered completely by diesel generators located on site. However, an agreement was reached during 2005 to purchase excess hydroelectric power from the local power company. Installation of the necessary infrastructure was completed in 2006, and use of hydroelectric power commenced during the third quarter of 2006. Low lake levels and increased demand in the Juneau area have combined to decrease power available to Greens Creek, and it is unlikely that Greens Creek will obtain significant utility power until 2010.
The employees at Greens Creek are employees of our Hecla Greens Creek Mining Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and are not represented by a bargaining agent. There were 336 employees at the Greens Creek unit at December 31, 2008. All equipment, infrastructure and facilities, including camp and concentrate storage facilities, are in good condition.
As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded a $30.0 million asset retirement obligation for reclamation and closure costs. In August 2008, we obtained the release of our trust fund balance of $30.4 million previously held for future reclamation at Greens Creek, replacing it with a $30 million bond secured by the restricted cash balance of $7.6 million. The net book value of the Greens Creek unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $738.4 million as of December 31, 2008.
For 2007 and 2006, prior to our acquisition of the remaining 70.3% interest in Greens Creek, Kennecott Greens Creek Mining Company’s geology and engineering staff computed the estimated ore reserves, and provided the weighted average metals prices used in the reserve estimates, for the Greens Creek unit, with our technical support. We reviewed the geologic interpretation and reserve methodology, but the reserve compilations for those periods were not independently confirmed by us in their entirety. Information with respect to production, average costs per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves is set forth in the following table, and represents our 100% ownership of Greens Creek after April 16, 2008, and our previous 29.7% ownership prior to that date.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from gold, lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provide an indicator of profitability and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - MD&A, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Estimates of proven and probable ore reserves for the Greens Creek unit as of December 2008, 2007 and 2006 are derived from successive generations of reserve and feasibility analyses for different areas of the mine each using a separate assessment of metals prices. The weighted average prices used for 2007 and 2006 reserve estimates were determined by the Kennecott Greens Creek Mining Company, then an indirect subsidiary of Rio Tinto, plc, and differ from the prices used by us, for example, in making such calculations for our Lucky Friday unit for those years. The average prices used for the Greens Creek unit were:
(3)
Ore reserves represent in-place material, diluted and adjusted for expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries of ore reserve grades differ by ore zones and are expected to average 74% for silver, 68% for gold, 77% for zinc and 73% for lead.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2008 versus 2007 and 2006 are due to the our acquisition of the remaining 70.3% of Greens Creek, as discussed above, along with the addition of new drill data and increases in forecasted precious metals prices, partially offset by depletion due to production. The changes in reserves in 2007 versus 2006 are due to the addition of new drill data and increases in forecasted precious metals prices, which have resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates for certain orebodies, partially offset by depletion due to production.
(5)
We only report probable reserves at the Greens Creek unit, which are based on average drill spacing of 50 to 100 feet. Proven reserves typically require that mining samples are partly the basis of the ore grade estimates used, while probable reserve grade estimates can be based entirely on drilling results. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by orebody and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Cutoff grades range from $97 per ton net smelter return to $107 per ton net smelter return.
(6)
Reflects our 29.7% ownership interest until April 16, 2008, and our 100% ownership thereafter.
(7)
An independent review by AMEC E&C, Inc. was completed in 2008 for the 2007 reserve models for the 5250N and Northwest West zones.
The Lucky Friday Unit
Since 1958, we have owned and operated the Lucky Friday unit, a deep underground silver, lead and zinc mine located in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District in northern Idaho. Lucky Friday is one-quarter mile east of Mullan, Idaho, and is adjacent to U.S. Interstate 90. Below is a map illustrating the location and access to the Lucky Friday unit:
There have been two ore-bearing structures mined at the Lucky Friday unit. The first, mined through 2001, was the Lucky Friday vein, a fissure vein typical of many in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The orebody is located in the Revett Formation, which is known to provide excellent host rocks for a number of orebodies in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Lucky Friday vein strikes northeasterly and dips steeply to the south with an average width of six to seven feet. Its principal ore minerals are galena and tetrahedrite with minor amounts of sphalerite and chalcopyrite. The ore occurs as a single continuous orebody in and along the Lucky Friday vein. The major part of the orebody has extended from the 1,200-foot level to and below the 6,020-foot level.
The second ore-bearing structure, known as the Lucky Friday Expansion Area, has been mined since 1997 pursuant to an operating agreement with Independence Lead Mines Company (“Independence’). During 1991, we discovered several mineralized structures containing some high-grade silver ores in an area known as the Gold Hunter property, approximately 5,000 feet northwest of the then existing Lucky Friday workings. This discovery led to the development of the Gold Hunter property on the 4900 level. On November 6, 2008, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Independence, including the mining claims pertaining to their agreement with us that includes all future interest or royalty obligation to Independence (see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Prior to the acquisition, we controlled the Gold Hunter property under a long-term operating agreement with Independence that was to expire in February 2018 and was renewable thereafter, that entitled us, as operator, to an 81.48% interest in the net profits from operations from the Gold Hunter property. Under that agreement, we would have been obligated to pay a net profits interest of 18.52% to Independence after we have recouped our costs to explore and develop the property.
The principal mining method at the Lucky Friday unit is ramp access, cut and fill. This method utilizes rubber-tired equipment to access the veins through ramps developed outside of the orebody. Once a cut is taken along the strike of the vein, it is backfilled with cemented tailings and the next cut is accessed, either above or below, from the ramp system.
The ore produced from Lucky Friday is processed in a conventional flotation mill, which produces both a silver-lead concentrate and a zinc concentrate. In 2008, ore was processed at an average rate of approximately 875 tons per day. During 2008, mill recovery totaled approximately 93% silver, 93% lead and 83% zinc. All silver-lead and zinc concentrate production during 2008 was shipped to Teck Cominco Limited’s smelter in Trail, British Columbia, Canada.
Information with respect to the Lucky Friday unit’s production, average cost per ounce of silver produced and proven and probable ore reserves for the past three years is set forth in the table below.
(1)
Includes by-product credits from lead and zinc production. Cash costs per ounce of silver or gold represent measurements that are not in accordance with GAAP that management uses to monitor and evaluate the performance of our mining operations. We believe cash costs per ounce of silver provide an indicator of profitability and efficiency at each location and on a consolidated basis, as well as providing a meaningful basis to compare our results to those of other mining companies and other mining operating properties. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cost of sales and other direct production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization, the most comparable GAAP measure, can be found in Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Reconciliation of Total Cash Costs (non-GAAP) to Costs of Sales and Other Direct Production Costs and Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (GAAP).
(2)
Proven and probable ore reserves are calculated and reviewed in-house and are subject to periodic audit by others, although audits are not performed on an annual basis. Cutoff grade assumptions vary by ore body and are developed based on reserve prices, anticipated mill recoveries and smelter payables and cash operating costs. Due to multiple ore metals, and complex combinations of ore types, metal ratios and metallurgical performances at the Lucky Friday, the cutoff grade is expressed in terms of net smelter return (“NSR”), rather than metal grade. The cutoff grade at the Lucky Friday ranges from $66 per ton NSR to $85 per ton NSR. Our estimates of proven and probable reserves are based on the following metals prices:
(3)
Reserves are in-place materials that incorporate estimates of the amount of waste that must be mined along with the ore and expected mining recovery. Mill recoveries are expected to be 95% for silver, 94% for lead and 87% for zinc. Zinc recovery has improved from historical levels due to mill upgrades completed during 2007, 2006 and 2005.
(4)
The changes in reserves in 2008 versus 2007, and in 2007 versus 2006, are due to addition of data from new drill holes and development work together with increases in forecast metals prices, which has resulted in the addition of new reserves based on updated estimates, partially offset by depletion due to production.
During 2008, we initiated engineering, procurement and development activities relating to construction of an internal shaft at the Lucky Friday mine, which, upon completion, would provide access from the 6200 level down to the 8000 level in the mine. This new infrastructure would allow us to mine mineralized material below our current workings on the 5900 level, and also provide a deeper exploration platform. Activities for this project thus far have included: engineering, purchase of some equipment including hoists and service trucks, and pre-development construction from existing workings to the shaft collar, hoist room and other smaller facilities on the 4900 level. However, the project has been placed on hold due to decreases in metals prices during the second half of 2008; allowing time for additional internal study and review of deep access alternatives at the Lucky Friday. As a result, the timing and extent of future work on the internal shaft project is uncertain at this time.
Ultimate reclamation activities are anticipated to include stabilization of tailings ponds and waste rock areas. No final reclamation activities were performed in 2008, and at December 31, 2008, an asset retirement obligation of approximately $0.9 million had been recorded for reclamation and closure costs. The net book value of the Lucky Friday unit property and its associated plant, equipment and mineral interests was approximately $95.8 million as of December 31, 2008. The construction of the facilities at Lucky Friday ranges from the 1950s to 2008, and all are in good physical condition. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we made capital improvements to our processing plant to improve concentrate grades and metal recoveries. Additions included a three-stage crushing system, increased flotation capacity and two new flash cells, new column cells and tailings thickeners, and an on-stream analyzer. The plant is maintained by our employees with assistance from outside contractors as required.
At December 31, 2008, there were 269 employees at the Lucky Friday unit. The United Steelworkers of America is the bargaining agent for the Lucky Friday’s 211 hourly employees. The current labor agreement expires on April 30, 2009. Avista Corporation supplies electrical power to the Lucky Friday unit.
EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
The San Sebastian Unit
The San Sebastian mine is located approximately 56 miles northeast of the city of Durango, Mexico, on concessions acquired in 1999. Access to San Sebastian is via Mexico Highway 40, approximately 7 miles east of Guadalupe Victoria, and then approximately 14 miles of paved rural road through the towns of Ignacio Allende and Emiliano Zapata. The processing plant, located near Velardeña, Durango, Mexico, was acquired in April 2001. The map below illustrates the location and access to the San Sebastian unit:
Our concession holdings cover approximately 308 square miles, including the Francine vein, the Don Sergio vein and multiple outlying active exploration areas. Production from the Francine vein was from a high-grade silver vein with significant gold credits. Production from the Don Sergio vein was from a high-grade gold vein with some silver credits. Mineral concession titles are obtained and held under the laws of Mexico, and are valid for 50 years with the possibility of extending another 50 years. There are work assessment and tax requirements that are variable and increase with the time that the concession is held.
Several intermediate sulfidation epithermal veins occur within the Saladillo Valley and include the Francine, Profesor, Middle and North vein systems. These veins are proximal to each other and are hosted within a series of shales with interbedded fine-grained sandstones interpreted to belong to the Cretaceous Caracol Formation. The Don Sergio, Jessica, Andrea and Antonella veins located in the Cerro Pedernalillo area, about 4 miles from Francine, are end member low sulfidation epithermal veins hosted by the same formation with the addition of dioritic intrusive rocks.
Underground development along the Francine vein started in May 2001, and reached full production during the second quarter of 2002. Mining of economic ore on the upper Francine vein was completed during the first quarter of 2005. The mine has been placed on care and maintenance as exploration continues on the property, including the Hugh Zone, which is
located 2300 feet below historic mining. Mining of economic ore on the Don Sergio vein was completed in the fourth quarter of 2005 and reclamation of this portion of the mine site was completed during 2006. San Sebastian’s life-of-mine production over four years was 11.2 million ounces of silver and 155,937 ounces of gold.
The Francine vein strikes northwest and dips southwest, and is located on the southwestern limb of a doubly plunging anticline. The vein ranges in true thickness from more than 13 feet to less than 1.5 feet, and consists of several episodes of banded quartz, silica-healed breccias and minor amounts of calcite. The vein is oxidized to a depth of approximately 328 vertical feet and the wall rocks contain an alteration halo of less than 7 feet next to the vein. Mineralization within the oxidized portion of the vein contains limonite, hematite, silver halides and various copper carbonates. Higher-grade gold and silver mineralization is associated with disseminated hematite and limonite after pyrite and chalcopyrite, copper carbonates including malachite and azurite and hydrous copper silicates including chrysocolla. Native gold occurs associated with hematite and limonite. Mineralization in the sulfide portion of the Francine vein contains pyrite, chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, native silver, argentite and trace amounts of aguilarite. Hugh Zone mineralization contains chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, argentite, acanthite, tetrahedrite, polybasite, stephanite, freibergite, and pyrargyrite.
Access to both underground workings has been through ramps from the surface connecting one or more levels. Ore has been mined by the cut-and-fill stoping method and extracted from the stopes using rubber-tired equipment and hauled to the surface in trucks. Run of mine ore has been hauled in trucks by contractors to our processing facility near Velardeña, which is approximately 68 miles from the San Sebastian mine and 72 miles from the Don Sergio mine. The mill, which was constructed in 1994 and is capable of processing approximately 550 tons per day, is a conventional leach, counter-current decantation and Merrill Crowe precipitation circuit. The ore has been crushed in a two-stage crushing plant consisting of a primary jaw, a secondary cone crusher and a double-deck vibrating screen. The grinding circuit includes a primary ball mill and cyclone classifiers. The ground ore was thickened, followed by agitated leaching and four stages of counter-current decantation to wash solubilized silver and gold from the pulp. The solution bearing silver and gold was clarified, deaerated and zinc dust added to precipitate silver and gold that is recovered in plate and frame filters. The precious metal precipitate was smelted and refined into doré, and was then shipped to a third-party refiner. Processing of economic ore was completed during the fourth quarter of 2005, and the mill was placed on care and maintenance at that time.
During 2008, exploration activities were focused in the La Roca target area, district scaled soil geochemistry, and district scaled target identification through detailed mapping and sampling. Through this work, several new drillable targets have been identified in the district. Continued district scaled target identification through detailed mapping and sampling is planned during 2009.
Additional exploration at the San Sebastian unit during 2008 included activity at the Rio Grande exploration project, which is located approximately 51 miles north of Fresnillo in Zacatecas State, on concessions acquired under an option to purchase agreement in 2007. Access to the property is via Mexico Highway 49, approximately 1 mile south of the city of Rio Grande followed by approximately 6 miles of dirt road west to the center of the property.
Our Rio Grande concession holdings cover approximately 5 square miles and several low- to intermediate-sulfidation epithermal vein systems including the La Soledad, Arcangeles, El Leon, Sacramento, Concepcion, and San Martin vein systems in addition to multiple outlying active exploration areas. These veins are proximal to each other and are hosted within a series of shales with interbedded fine-grained sandstones interpreted to belong to the Cretaceous Caracol Formation. The Rio Grande vein systems strike north to northwest and dips to the west and southwest. The veins range in true thickness from more than 46-feet to less than 1.5 feet, and consist of several episodes of banded quartz, silica-healed breccias and minor amounts of calcite. These veins are partially oxidized to a depth of approximately 196 vertical feet and the wall rocks contain an alteration halo of less than 33 feet next to the vein. Mineralization within these veins consists of limonite, hematite, marcasite, pyrite, argentite, and pyrargyrite and trace amounts of chalcopyrite.
During 2008, the initial drilling of the La Soledad, Arcangeles, El Leon, Sacramento, Concepcion, San Martin, and Aguila Mexicana veins was completed. In 2009, we will continue district scaled target identification through detailed mapping and sampling, but are also considering optioning or dropping the Rio Grande project.
At December 31, 2008, the net book value of the San Sebastian unit property and its associated plant and equipment was $3.2 million, including approximately $3 million for the mill. Site infrastructure includes a water supply system, maintenance shop, warehouse, laboratory, tailings impoundment and various offices. Equipment and facilities are in good condition and have been placed on care and maintenance pending a resumption of operations. We are currently involved in litigation concerning our ownership of the Velardeña mill. We are negotiating with the plaintiff who has offered to purchase the mill from us. See the Mexico Litigation section of Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
As of December 31, 2008, $1.2 million has been accrued for reclamation and closure costs, and there were 25 hourly and 32 salaried employees performing exploration, care and maintenance, reclamation and security functions. In January 2009, we reduced our workforce in Mexico by 18 hourly and 17 salary employees as a part of an effort to conserve cash.
Due to the curtailment of mining activity, the collective bargaining agreement with the National Mine and Mill Workers Union for hourly mill employees was terminated during the fourth quarter of 2005. Electric power is purchased from Comisión Federal de Electricidad (a Mexico federal electric company).
Item 3.