Item 2 - "Properties." CompX also leases a distribution center in California and a warehouse in Taiwan. CompX believes that all of its facilities are well maintained and satisfactory for their intended purposes.
Raw materials. Coiled steel is the major raw material used in the manufacture of precision ball bearing slides and ergonomic computer support systems. Plastic resins for injection molded plastics are also an integral material for ergonomic computer support systems. Purchased components and zinc are the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of security products. These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are readily available from numerous sources.
CompX occasionally enters into raw material purchase arrangements to mitigate the short-term impact of future increases in raw material costs. While these arrangements do not commit CompX to a minimum volume of purchases, they generally provide for stated unit prices based upon achievement of specified volume purchase levels. This allows CompX to stabilize raw material purchase prices, provided the specified minimum monthly purchase quantities are met. Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases, such as rapidly increasing worldwide steel prices in 2002 through 2004. Due to the competitive nature of the markets served by CompX's products, it is often difficult to recover such increases in raw material costs through increased product selling prices. Consequently, overall operating margins can be affected by such raw material cost pressures.
Competition. The office furniture and security products markets are highly competitive. CompX competes primarily on the basis of product design, including ergonomic and aesthetic factors, product quality and durability, price, on-time delivery, service and technical support. CompX focuses its efforts on the middle- and high-end segments of the market, where product design, quality, durability and service are placed at a premium.
CompX competes in the precision ball bearing slide market primarily on the basis of product quality and price with two large manufacturers and a number of smaller domestic and foreign manufacturers. CompX competes in the security products market with a variety of relatively small domestic and foreign competitors. CompX competes in the ergonomic computer support system market primarily on the basis of product quality, features and price with one major producer and a number of smaller domestic unique manufacturers, and primarily on the basis of price with a number of smaller domestic and foreign manufacturers. Although CompX believes that it has been able to compete successfully in its markets to date, price competition from foreign-sourced products has intensified in the current economic market. There can be no assurance that CompX will be able to continue to successfully compete in all of its existing markets in the future.
Patents and trademarks. CompX holds a number of patents relating to its component products, certain of which are believed to be important to CompX and its continuing business activity and owns a number of trademarks and brand names including CompX, CompX Security Products, CompX Waterloo, CompX ErgonomX, National Cabinet Lock, KeSet, Fort Lock, Timberline Lock, Chicago Lock, ACE II, TuBar, STOCK LOCKS, ShipFast, Waterloo Furniture Components Limited and Dynaslide, are protected by registration in the United States and elsewhere with respect to the products CompX manufactures and sells. CompX believes such trademarks are well recognized in the component products industry.
Regulatory and environmental matters. CompX's operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, treatment, emission, discharge, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and wastes. CompX's operations are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. CompX believes that it is in substantial compliance with all such laws and regulations. The costs of maintaining compliance with such laws and regulations have not significantly impacted CompX to date, and CompX has no significant planned costs or expenses relating to such matters. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with future laws and regulations will not require CompX to incur significant additional expenditures, or that such additional costs would not have a material adverse effect on CompX's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Employees. As of December 31, 2004, CompX employed approximately 1,450 persons, including 800 in the United States, 470 in Canada, and 180 in Taiwan. Approximately 76% of CompX's employees in Canada are represented by a labor union covered by a collective bargaining agreement which provides for annual wage increases from 1% to 2.5% over the term of the contract expiring in January 2006. Wage increases for these Canadian employees historically have also been in line with overall inflation indices. CompX believes its labor relations are satisfactory.
CHEMICALS - KRONOS WORLDWIDE, INC.
General. Kronos is a leading global producer and marketer of value-added TiO2, an inorganic chemical used for imparting whiteness, brightness and opacity to a diverse range of customer applications and end-use markets, including paints, paper, plastics, paper, ink, textiles, ceramics, food and cosmetics. TiO2 is considered to be a "quality-of-life" product with demand affected by the gross domestic product in various regions of the world. TiO2, the largest commercially used whitening pigment by volume, derives its value from its whitening properties and opacifying ability (commonly referred to as hiding power). As a result of TiO2's high refractive index rating, it can provide more hiding power than any other commercially produced white pigment. In addition, TiO2 demonstrates excellent resistance to chemical attack, good thermal stability and resistance to ultraviolet degradation. TiO2 is supplied to customers in either a powder or slurry form.
By volume, approximately one-half of Kronos' 2004 sales volumes were attributable to markets in Europe with approximately 38% to North America and the balance to export markets. Kronos is the second-largest producer of TiO2 in Europe, with an estimated 20% share of European TiO2 sales volumes in 2004. Kronos has an estimated 14% share of North American TiO2 sales volumes.
Per capita consumption TiO2 in the United States and Western Europe far exceeds consumption in other areas of the world and these regions are expected to continue to be the largest consumers of TiO2. Significant markets for TiO2 consumption could emerge in Eastern Europe, the Far East or China, as the economies in these regions continue to develop to the point that quality-of-life products, including TiO2, experience greater demand.
Products and operations. TiO2 is produced in two crystalline forms: rutile and anatase. Both the chloride and sulfate production processes (discussed below) produce rutile TiO2. Chloride process rutile is preferred for the majority of customer applications. From a technical standpoint, chloride process rutile has a bluer undertone and higher durability than sulfate process rutile TiO2. Although many end-use applications can use either form of TiO2, chloride process rutile TiO2 is the preferred form for use in coatings and plastics, the two largest end-use markets. Anatase TiO2, which is produced only through the sulfate production process, represents a much smaller percentage of annual global TiO2 production and is preferred for use in selected paper, ceramics, rubber tires, man-made fibers, food and cosmetics.
Kronos believes that there are no effective substitutes for TiO2. Extenders, such as kaolin clays, calcium carbonate and polymeric opacifiers, are used in a number of end-use markets; however the opacity in these products is not able to duplicate the performance characteristics of TiO2, and Kronos believes these products are unlikely to replace TiO2.
Kronos currently produces over 40 different TiO2 grades, sold under the Kronos trademark, which provide a variety of performance properties to meet customers' specific requirements. Kronos' major customers include domestic and international paint, plastics and paper manufacturers.
Kronos and its distributors and agents sell and provide technical services for its products to over 4,000 customers in over 100 countries with the majority of sales in Europe and North America. TiO2 is distributed by rail, truck and ocean carrier in either dry or slurry form. Kronos and its predecessors have produced and marketed TiO2 in North America and Europe for over 80 years, and Kronos is the only leading TiO2 producer committed to producing TiO2 and related products as its sole business. Kronos believes that it has developed considerable expertise and efficiency in the manufacture, sale, shipment and service of its products in domestic and international markets.
Sales of TiO2 represented about 90% of Kronos' total sales in 2004. Sales of other products, complementary to Kronos' TiO2 business, are comprised of the following:
o Kronos operates an ilmenite mine in Norway pursuant to a governmental concession with an unlimited term. Ilmenite is a raw material used directly as a feedstock by some sulfate-process TiO2 plants, including all of Kronos' European sulfate-process plants. The mine has estimated reserves that are expected to last at least 20 years. Ilmenite sales to third-parties represented approximately 4% of Kronos' consolidated net sales in 2004.
o Kronos manufactures and sells iron-based chemicals, which are by-products and processed by-products of the TiO2 pigment production process. These co-product chemicals are marketed through Kronos' Ecochem division, and are used primarily as treatment and conditioning agents for industrial effluents and municipal wastewater as well as in the manufacture of iron pigments, cement and agricultural products. Sales of iron based chemical products were about 3% of chemical sales in 2004.
o Kronos manufactures and sells certain titanium chemical products (titanium oxychloride and titanyl sulfate), which are side-stream products from the production of TiO2. Titanium oxychloride is used in specialty applications in the formulation of pearlescent pigments, production of electroceramic capacitors for cell phones and other electronic devices. Titanyl sulfate products are used primarily in pearlescent pigments. Sales of these products were about 1% of chemical sales in 2004.
Manufacturing process, properties and raw materials. Kronos manufactures TiO2 using both the chloride process and the sulfate process. Approximately 73% of Kronos' current production capacity is based on the chloride process. The chloride process is a continuous process in which chlorine is used to extract rutile TiO2. The chloride process typically has lower manufacturing costs than the sulfate process due to higher yield and production of less waste and lower energy requirements and labor costs. Because much of the chlorine is recycled and feedstock bearing a higher titanium content is used, the chloride process produces less waste than the sulfate process. The sulfate process is a batch chemical process that uses sulfuric acid to extract TiO2. Sulfate technology can produce either anatase or rutile pigment. Once an intermediate TiO2 pigment has been produced by either the chloride or sulfate process, it is 'finished' into products with specific performance characteristics for particular end-use applications through proprietary processes involving various chemical surface treatments and intensive micronizing (milling). Due to environmental factors and customer considerations, the proportion of TiO2 industry sales represented by chloride-process pigments has increased relative to sulfate-process pigments and, in 2004, chloride-process production facilities represented approximately 64% of industry capacity.
During 2004, Kronos operated four TiO2 facilities in Europe (one in each of Leverkusen, Germany, Nordenham, Germany, Langerbrugge, Belgium and Fredrikstad, Norway). In North America, Kronos has a TiO2 facility in Varennes, Quebec and, through a manufacturing joint venture discussed below, a one-half interest in a TiO2 plant in Lake Charles, Louisiana. TiO2 is produced using the chloride process at the Leverkusen, Langerbrugge, Varennes and Lake Charles facilities, while TiO2 is produced using the sulfate process at the Nordenham, Leverkusen, Fredrikstad and Varennes facilities. Kronos operates an ilmenite mine in Norway pursuant to a governmental concession with an unlimited term, and Kronos also owns a TiO2 slurry facility in Louisiana and leases various corporate and administrative offices in the U.S. and various sales offices in the U.S. and Europe. Kronos' co-products are produced at its Norwegian, Belgian and German facilities, and its titanium chemicals are produced at its Belgian and Canadian facilities.
All of Kronos' principal production facilities are owned, except for the land under the Leverkusen and Fredrikstad facilities. The Fredrikstad plant is located on public land and is leased until 2013, with an option to extend the lease for an additional 50 years. Kronos leases the land under its Leverkusen TiO2 production facility pursuant to a lease expiring in 2050. The Leverkusen facility, representing about one-third of Kronos' current TiO2 production capacity, is located within an extensive manufacturing complex owned by Bayer AG. Rent for the Leverkusen facility is periodically established by agreement with Bayer AG for periods of at least two years at a time. Under a separate supplies and services agreement expiring in 2011, Bayer provides some raw materials (including chlorine and certain amounts of sulfuric acid), auxiliary and operating materials and utilities services necessary to operate the Leverkusen facility. The lease and the supplies and services agreement have certain restrictions regarding ownership and use of the Leverkusen facility.
Kronos produced a new company record 484,000 metric tons of TiO2 in 2004, compared to the prior records of 476,000 metric tons in 2003 and 442,000 metric tons in 2002. Such production amounts include the Company's one-half interest in the joint-venture owned Louisiana plant discussed below. The Company's average production capacity utilization rates in 2003 and 2004 were near full capacity, up from 96% in 2002. Kronos production capacity has increased by approximately 30% over the past ten years due to debottlenecking programs, with only moderate capital expenditures. The Company believes its annual attainable production capacity for 2005 is approximately 500,000 metric tons, with some slight additional capacity available in 2006 through Kronos' continued debottlenecking efforts.
The primary raw materials used in the TiO2 chloride production process are titanium-containing feedstock, chlorine and coke. Chlorine and coke are available from a number of suppliers. Titanium-containing feedstock suitable for use in the chloride process is available from a limited but increasing number of suppliers around the world, principally in Australia, South Africa, Canada, India and the United States. Kronos purchased approximately 410,000 metric tons of chloride feedstock in 2004, of which the vast majority was slag. The Company purchased chloride process grade slag in 2004 from a subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc UK - Richards Bay Iron and Titanium Limited South Africa under a long-term supply contract that expires at the end of 2007. Natural rutile ore is purchased primarily from Iluka Resources, Limited (Australia), a company formed through the merger of Westralian Sands Limited (Australia) and RGC Mineral Sands, Ltd., under a long-term supply contract that expires at the end of 2007. The Company does not expect to encounter difficulties obtaining long-term extensions to existing supply contracts prior to the expiration of the contracts. Raw materials purchased under these contracts and extensions thereof are expected to meet the Company's chloride process feedstock requirements over the next several years.
The primary raw materials used in the TiO2 sulfate production process are titanium-containing feedstock, derived primarily from rock and beach sand ilmenite, and sulfuric acid. Sulfuric acid is available from a number of suppliers. Titanium-containing feedstock suitable for use in the sulfate process is available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Currently, the principal active sources are located in Norway, Canada, Australia, India and South Africa. As one of the few vertically integrated producers of sulfate-process pigments, Kronos operates a rock ilmenite mine in Norway, which provided all of Kronos' feedstock for its European sulfate-process pigment plants in 2004. Kronos produced approximately 867,000 metric tons of ilmenite in 2004, of which approximately 311,000 metric tons were used internally with the remainder sold to third parties. For its Canadian sulfate-process plant, Kronos also purchases sulfate grade slag (approximately 20,000 metric tons in 2004) primarily from Q.I.T. Fer et Titane Inc. Canada, a subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc UK, under a long-term supply contract that expires at the end of 2009. Raw materials purchased under these contracts and extensions thereof are expected to meet the Company's sulfate process feedstock requirements over the next several years.
Kronos has sought to minimize the impact of potential changes in the price of its feedstock raw materials by entering into the contracts discussed above which fix, to a large extent, the price of its raw materials. The contracts contain fixed quantities that Kronos is required to purchase, although certain of these contracts allow for an upward or downward adjustment in the quantity purchased, generally no more than 10%, based on Kronos' feedstock requirements. The quantities under these contracts do not require Kronos to purchase feedstock in excess of amounts that Kronos would reasonably consume in any given year. The pricing under these agreements is generally based on a fixed price with price escalation clauses primarily based on consumer price indices, as defined in the respective contracts.
The number of sources of, and availability of, certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. As noted above, Kronos purchases titanium-bearing ore from three different suppliers in different countries under multiple-year contracts. Political and economic instability in certain countries from which Kronos purchases its raw material supplies could adversely affect the availability of such feedstock. Should Kronos' vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should Kronos be otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials, Kronos may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, which may have a material adverse effect on Kronos' consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
TiO2 manufacturing joint venture. Subsidiaries of Kronos and Huntsman Holdings LLC ("Huntsman") each own a 50%-interest in a manufacturing joint venture, Louisiana Pigment Company ("LPC"). LPC owns and operates a chloride-process TiO2 plant located in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Production from the plant is shared equally by Kronos and Huntsman (the "Partners") pursuant to separate offtake agreements.
A supervisory committee, composed of four members, two of which are appointed by each Partner, directs the business and affairs of LPC including production and output decisions. Two general managers, one appointed and compensated by each Partner, manage the operations of the joint venture acting under the direction of the supervisory committee.
Kronos is required to purchase one-half of the TiO2 produced by the joint venture. The manufacturing joint venture operates on a break-even basis, and accordingly Kronos does not report any equity in earnings of the joint venture. With the exception of raw material costs for the pigment grades produced, Kronos and Huntsman share all costs and capital expenditures of the joint venture equally. Kronos' share of the net costs of the joint venture is reported as a component of its cost of sales as the related TiO2 acquired from the joint venture is sold.
Competition. The TiO2 industry is highly competitive. Kronos competes primarily on the basis of price, product quality and technical service, and the availability of high performance pigment grades. Although certain TiO2 grades are considered specialty pigments, the majority of Kronos' grades and substantially all of Kronos' production are considered commodity pigments with price generally being the most significant competitive factor. During 2004 Kronos had an estimated 12% share of worldwide TiO2 sales volume, and Kronos believes that it is the leading seller of TiO2 in several countries, including Germany and Canada. Overall, Kronos is the world's fifth largest producer of TiO2.
Kronos' principal competitors are E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. ("DuPont"); Millennium Chemicals, Inc.; Huntsman; Kerr-McGee Corporation; and Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha, Ltd. Kronos' five largest competitors have estimated individual shares of TiO2 production capacity ranging from 24% to 4%, and an estimated aggregate 70% share of worldwide TiO2 production volume. DuPont has about one-half of total North American TiO2 production capacity and is Kronos' principal North American competitor.
Worldwide capacity additions in the TiO2 market resulting from construction of greenfield plants require significant capital expenditures and substantial lead time (typically three to five years in Kronos' experience). No greenfield plants are currently under construction in North America or Europe, and Kronos does not expect additional greenfield capacity will come on-stream in the next three to five years. Kronos does expect that industry capacity will increase as Kronos and its competitors continue to debottleneck their existing facilities. In addition to the potential capacity additions through debottlenecking, certain competitors have recently either idled or shut down facilities. In the past year, Huntsman, Millennium and Kerr-McGee have announced the idling or shut down of an aggregate of approximately 135,000 metric tons of sulfate production capacity by early 2005. Based on the factors described above, Kronos expects that the average annual increase in industry capacity from announced debottlenecking projects will be less than the average annual demand growth for TiO2 during the next three to five years. However, no assurance can be given that future increases in the TiO2 industry production capacity and future average annual demand growth rates for TiO2 will conform to Kronos' expectations. If actual developments differ from Kronos' expectations, Kronos and the TiO2 industry's performances could be unfavorably affected.
Research and development. Kronos' expenditures for research and development process technology and quality assurance activities were approximately $6 million in 2002, $7 million in 2003 and $8 million in 2004. Research and development activities are conducted principally at the Leverkusen, Germany facility. Such activities are directed primarily toward improving both the chloride and sulfate production processes, improving product quality and strengthening Kronos' competitive position by developing new pigment applications.
Kronos continually seeks to improve the quality of its grades, and has been successful at developing new grades for existing and new applications to meet the needs of customers and increase product life cycle. Over the last five years, ten new grades have been added for plastics, coatings, fiber and paper laminate applications.
Patents and trademarks. Patents held for products and production processes are important to Kronos and its continuing business activities. Kronos seeks patent protection for its technical developments, principally in the United States, Canada and Europe, and from time to time enters into licensing arrangements with third parties. Kronos' existing patents generally have a term of 20 years from the date of filing, and have remaining terms ranging from one to 19 years. Kronos seeks to protect its intellectual property rights, including its patent rights, and from time to time Kronos is engaged in disputes relating to the protection and use of intellectual property relating to its products.
Kronos' major trademarks, including Kronos, are protected by registration in the United States and elsewhere with respect to those products it manufactures and sells. Kronos also relies on unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain its competitive position. Kronos' proprietary chloride production process is an important part of Kronos' technology, and Kronos' business could be harmed if Kronos should fail to maintain confidentiality of its trade secrets used in this technology.
Customer base and annual seasonality. Kronos believes that neither its aggregate sales nor those of any of its principal product groups are concentrated in or materially dependent upon any single customer or small group of customers. Kronos' largest ten customers accounted for approximately 25% of net sales in 2004. Neither Kronos' business as a whole nor that of any of its principal product groups is seasonal to any significant extent. Due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet the spring and summer painting season demand, TiO2 sales are generally higher in the first half of the year than in the second half of the year.
Employees. As of December 31, 2004, Kronos employed approximately 2,420 persons (excluding employees of the Louisiana joint venture), with 50 employees in the United States, 420 employees in Canada and 1,950 employees in Europe.
Hourly employees in production facilities worldwide, including the TiO2 joint venture, are represented by a variety of labor unions, with labor agreements having various expiration dates. In Europe, union employees are covered by master collective bargaining agreements in the chemicals industry that are renewed annually. In Canada, Kronos' union employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in June 2007. Kronos believes its labor relations are good.
Regulatory and environmental matters. Kronos' operations are governed by various environmental laws and regulations. Certain of Kronos' operations are, or have been engaged in the handling, manufacture or use of substances or compounds that may be considered toxic or hazardous within the meaning of applicable environmental laws and regulations. As with other companies engaged in similar businesses, certain past and current operations and products of Kronos have the potential to cause environmental or other damage. Kronos has implemented and continues to implement various policies and programs in an effort to minimize these risks. Kronos' policy is to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at all its facilities and to strive to improve its environmental performance. It is possible that future developments, such as stricter requirements in environmental laws and enforcement policies thereunder, could adversely affect Kronos' production, handling, use, storage, transportation, sale or disposal of such substances as well as Kronos' consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Kronos' U.S. manufacturing operations are governed by federal environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations, principally the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act ("CERCLA"), as well as the state counterparts of these statutes. Kronos believes the TiO2 plant owned by the LPC joint venture and a TiO2 slurry facility owned by Kronos in Lake Charles, Louisiana are in substantial compliance with applicable requirements of these laws or compliance orders issued thereunder. Kronos has no other U.S. plants.
While the laws regulating operations of industrial facilities in Europe vary from country to country, a common regulatory framework is provided by the European Union (the "EU"). Germany and Belgium are members of the EU and follow its initiatives. Norway, although not a member of the EU, generally patterns its environmental regulatory actions after the EU. Kronos believes that it has obtained all required permits and is in substantial compliance with applicable EU requirements.
At its sulfate plant facilities in Germany, Kronos recycles weak sulfuric acid either through contracts with third parties or using its own facilities. At Kronos' Fredrikstad, Norway plant, Kronos ships its spent acid to a third party location where it is treated and disposed. Kronos' Canadian sulfate plant neutralizes its spent acid and sells its gypsum by-product to a local wallboard manufacturer. Kronos has a contract with a third party to treat certain sulfate-process effluents at its German sulfate plant. Either party may terminate the contract after giving four years advance notice with regard to Kronos' Nordenham, Germany plant.
From time to time, Kronos' facilities may be subject to environmental regulatory enforcement under U.S. and foreign statutes. Resolution of such matters typically involves the establishment of compliance programs. Occasionally, resolution may result in the payment of penalties, but to date such penalties have not involved amounts having a material adverse effect on Kronos' consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Kronos believes that all its plants are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws.
Kronos' capital expenditures related to its ongoing environmental protection and improvement programs in 2004 were approximately $7 million, and are currently expected to be approximately $7 million in 2005.
OTHER
NL Industries, Inc. In addition to its 68% ownership of CompX and its 37% ownership of Kronos at December 31, 2004, NL also holds certain marketable securities and other investments. In addition, NL owns 100% of EWI Re. Inc., an insurance brokerage and risk management services company. See Notes 5 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Foreign operations. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, the Company has substantial operations and assets located outside the United States, principally chemicals operations in Germany, Belgium and Norway, chemicals and component products operations in Canada and component products operations in Taiwan. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Approximately 72% of Kronos' 2004 aggregate TiO2 sales were to non-U.S. customers, including 9% to customers in areas other than Europe and Canada. Approximately 24% of CompX's 2004 sales were to non-U.S. customers located principally in Canada and Europe. Foreign operations are subject to, among other things, currency exchange rate fluctuations and the Company's results of operations have in the past been both favorably and unfavorably affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. See Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 7A - "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."
CompX's Canadian component products subsidiary has, from time to time, entered into currency forward contracts to mitigate exchange rate fluctuation risk for a portion of its receivables denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar (principally the U.S. dollar) or for similar risks associated with future sales. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Otherwise, the Company does not generally engage in currency derivative transactions.
Political and economic uncertainties in certain of the countries in which the Company operates may expose the Company to risk of loss. The Company does not believe that there is currently any likelihood of material loss through political or economic instability, seizure, nationalization or similar event. The Company cannot predict, however, whether events of this type in the future could have a material effect on its operations. The Company's manufacturing and mining operations are also subject to extensive and diverse environmental regulations in each of the foreign countries in which they operate, as discussed in the respective business sections elsewhere herein.
Regulatory and environmental matters. Regulatory and environmental matters are discussed in the respective business sections contained elsewhere herein and in Item 3