Item 2 “Properties.” As permitted under these contracts, Methanex elected to shut down the Beaumont facility as of December 1, 2004. As long as the Beaumont, Texas facility remains idle through the December 2008 termination of the Methanex contract, the Company may realize revenues relating to the facility of up to $16.4 million per year due to $4.4 million from annual amortization of deferred revenues plus one-half of the annual cash margin based on the plant’s methanol production capacity, methanol reference prices and natural gas costs. Due to the high cost of natural gas, there was no cash margin realized during 2005.
During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company temporarily suspended all production at the Woodward, Oklahoma facility, ammonia production at the Yazoo City, Mississippi facility and ammonia production at the Billingham, Teeside facility in the U.K. These temporary suspensions of production were due to the high cost of natural gas during the period.
Overview of Consolidated Results
The Company’s revenues were $1.9 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Terra generated net income (loss) of $22.1 million, $67.6 million and $(12.5) million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Diluted income (loss) per share was $0.18, $0.85 and $(0.16) in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Income (loss) from operations was $113.7 in 2005, $134.7 million in 2004 and $(23.6) million in 2003. Revenues for 2005 increased $423.6 million as compared to 2004, primarily due to the Mississippi Chemical Corporation (MCC) acquisition in December 2004 and higher sales prices. The sales prices were higher as a result of increased demand and lower supplies primarily due to reduced production capacity in North America. Costs associated with the 2005 MCC revenues and higher natural gas prices were the primary factors that increased cost of sales by $452.2 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. The Company recognized $21.4 million of earnings from equity in unconsolidated affiliates during 2005, primarily as a result of equity investments acquired in the MCC acquisition. During 2005, the Company recorded a $27.2 million loss ($24.9 million, net of tax) on the early repayment of debt and an $8.9 million gain ($8.9 million, net of tax) on change in fair value of warrants issued.
The 2004 net income was increased by $27.9 million of income tax benefits due to a favorable settlement with a foreign taxing authority. The 2004 net income also included $11.6 million attributable to an insurance recovery of product claim costs (representing $17.9 million of operating income less $6.3 million of related income taxes) and a $7.1 million loss from the early retirement of long-term debt (representing $11.1 million of losses less $4.0 million of related income taxes).
During 2003, the Company recorded a $27.0 million net charge for the impairment of its Blytheville, Arkansas facility (representing a $53.1 million impairment charge to operating income less $9.9 million allocated to minority interest and $16.2 million of income tax benefit). The 2003 net loss was reduced by $36.4 million of income tax benefits for a reduced assessment by a foreign taxing authority and reversals of tax reserves that had been provided in prior years.
Other fluctuations to the Company’s income (loss) from continuing operations for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were primarily related to increases in the selling prices of nitrogen products, decreases in methanol sales due to an exclusivity agreement with Methanex and changes in the cost of natural gas, the Company’s primary raw material for manufacturing its products.
Factors That Affect Operating Results
Factors that may affect the Company’s operating results include: the relative balance of supply and demand for nitrogen fertilizers, industrial nitrogen and methanol, the availability and cost of natural gas, the number of agriculture-planted acres (which is affected by both worldwide demand and government policies), the types of crops planted, the effect of general weather patterns on the timing and duration of field work for crop planting and harvesting, the effect of environmental legislation on supply and demand for the Company’s products, the availability of financing sources to fund seasonal working capital needs, and the potential for interruption to operations due to accidents or natural disasters.
The principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products and methanol is natural gas. Natural gas costs in 2005 and 2004 accounted for approximately 72% and 60%, respectively, of the Company’s total
manufacturing costs and expenses. A significant increase in the price of natural gas that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of the Company’s nitrogen and methanol products would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of global nitrogen products and methanol production is at facilities with access to fixed-price natural gas supplies that have been, and could continue to be, substantially lower priced than natural gas costs at the Company’s North American and U.K. facilities. The Company’s facility at Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited, an unconsolidated subsidiary, is located in Trinidad with access to such lower-cost natural gas.
The Company enters into forward pricing contracts for some of its natural gas requirements when such arrangements would not result in costs greater than expected North American and U.K. selling prices for the Company’s finished products. The Company’s December 31, 2005 forward positions covered 16% of the Company’s expected 2006 natural gas requirements (excluding the natural gas requirements of Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited which purchases its gas under contract with the Natural Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago).
Prices for nitrogen products are influenced by the world supply and demand balance for ammonia and other nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Short-term demand is affected by world economic conditions, international trade decisions and grain prices. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the availability of nitrogen product exports from major producing regions such as the former Soviet Union, the Middle East and South America.
Methanol is used as a raw material in the production of formaldehyde, methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), acetic acid and numerous other chemical derivatives. The price of methanol is influenced by the supply and demand for each of these products. Environmental initiatives to ban or reduce the use of MTBE as a fuel additive, such as those currently underway in the United States, could affect demand for methanol.
Weather can have a significant effect on demand for the Company’s nitrogen products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural customers to use forms of nitrogen fertilizer that are more or less favorable to the Company’s products. Weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could affect their ability to pay for crop inputs purchased from the Company’s dealer customers.
The Company’s nitrogen business segment is seasonal, with the majority of nitrogen products consumed during the second quarter in conjunction with spring planting activity. Due to the business’ seasonality and the relatively brief periods during which customers consume nitrogen products, the Company and its customers generally build inventories during the second half of the year in order to ensure product availability during the peak sales season. For the Company’s current level of sales, it may require lines of credit to fund inventory increases and to support customer credit terms. The Company believes that its credit facilities are adequate for expected 2006 sales levels.
The Company’s manufacturing operations may be subject to significant interruption if one or more of its facilities were to experience a major accident or were damaged by severe weather or other natural
disaster. The Company currently maintains insurance, including business interruption insurance, which it believes is sufficient to allow it to recover from major damage to any of its facilities.
Critical Accounting Policies
The discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as of the date of the financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that reflect significant judgments and uncertainties, and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Derivative and Financial Instruments
The Company enters into derivative financial instruments, including swaps, basis swaps and put and call options, to manage the effect of changes in natural gas costs, to manage the prices of its nitrogen products and to manage foreign currency risk. The Company reports the fair value of the derivatives on its balance sheet. If the derivative is not designated as a hedging instrument, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings in the period of change. If the derivative is designated as a hedge, and to the extent such hedge is determined to be effective, changes in fair value are either (a) offset by the change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability or (b) reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the period of change, and subsequently recognized in the determination of net income in the period the offsetting hedged transaction occurs. If an instrument is settled early, any gains or losses are immediately recognized as adjustments to earnings.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of a transaction exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, no obligations remain and collectibility is probable.
Revenues are primarily comprised of sales of the Company’s products, including any realized hedging gains or losses related to nitrogen product derivatives, and are reduced by estimated discounts and trade allowances. Revenues include amounts related to shipping and handling charges to the Company’s customers.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. The cost of inventories is determined by using the first-in, first-out method. The Company performs a monthly analysis of its inventory balances to determine if the carrying amount of inventories exceeds their net realizable value. The analysis of estimated realizable value is based on customer orders, market trends and historical pricing. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated net realizable value, the carrying amount is reduced to the estimated net realizable value.
Equity Investments
Equity investments are carried at original cost adjusted for the Company’s proportionate share of the investees’ income, losses and distributions. The Company periodically assesses the carrying value of its equity investment and will record a loss on equity investments when a decline in the fair value of the investment that is other than temporary exists.
Pension Assets and Liabilities
Pension assets and liabilities are affected by the estimated market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets and discount rates. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense ultimately recognized. The Company’s pension projected benefit obligation was $454.5 million at December 31, 2005, which was $139.2 million higher than pension plan assets. The December 31, 2005 liability was computed based on an average 5.4% discount rate, which was based on yields for high-quality corporate bonds with a maturity approximating the duration of the Company’s pension liability. In addition, the pension liability for its U.K. pension plan, which includes provisions to adjust benefit payments for general inflation rates, was estimated based on an average 3.0% annual inflation rate. Declines in comparable bond yields or higher U.K. inflation rates would increase the Company’s pension liability. The Company’s net pension liability, after deduction of plan assets, could increase or decrease depending on the extent to which returns on pension plan assets are lower or higher than the discount rate.
Post-Retirement Benefits
Post-retirement benefits are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by assumptions including the discount rate and expected trends in health care costs. Changes in the discount rate and differences between actual and expected health care costs could affect the recorded amount of post-retirement benefits expense ultimately recognized.
Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect (a) differences between financial statement carrying amounts and corresponding tax bases and (b) temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. Deferred tax assets also include the expected benefits of carrying forward the Company’s net operating losses. The Company regularly reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability and reduces them if the Company cannot sufficiently determine that they will be realized. The Company bases this determination on projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences.
At December 31, 2005, deferred tax assets representing future benefits for the Company’s U.S. net operating loss carryforwards totaled $167 million. If there is a material change in the effective tax rates or time period when temporary differences become taxable or deductible, the Company may have to additionally reduce all or a significant portion of its deferred tax assets.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of its asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying value of the asset. Future cash flows include estimates of production levels, pricing of the Company’s products, costs of natural gas and capital expenditures. If the assets are impaired, a calculation of fair value is performed; if the fair value is less than the carrying value of the assets, the assets are reduced to their fair value.
During 2005, events occurred that indicated that the carrying amount of the Beaumont, Texas assets may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2005, the Beaumont assets had a carrying value, net of $14 million of deferred revenues, of approximately $96 million. The Company estimated the remaining useful life of the Beaumont facility at 13 years, assuming normal investment in maintenance and replacement capital throughout this 13-year period. The estimated cash flows over this 13-year period were based on the Company’s best estimate of future market and operating conditions at December 31, 2005. The estimated cash flows exceeded the carrying value of the Beaumont assets, therefore, no impairment charge was recorded. The cash flow estimates were made with the assumption that the Beaumont facility will remain idle through 2008, the term of the Company’s contract with Methanex, and that once restarted, the Beaumont facility will produce at historic rates and selling prices will be adequate to realize historic margins.
Results of Continuing Operations-2005 Compared with 2004
Consolidated Results
The Company reported 2005 net income of $22.1 million on revenues of $1.9 billion compared with a 2004 net income of $67.6 million on revenues of $1.5 billion. Diluted income per share for 2005 was $0.18 compared with $0.85 for 2004. The 2005 net income included a $27.2 million ($24.9 million, net of tax) loss related to the early retirement of debt and a $8.9 million ($8.9 million, net of tax) gain relating to change in fair value of warrants.
The 2004 net income included $27.9 million of income tax benefits due to a favorable settlement with a foreign taxing authority, $11.6 million of income attributable to an insurance recovery of product claim costs (representing $17.9 million of operating income less $6.3 million of related income taxes) and a $7.1 million loss from the early retirement of long-term debt (representing $11.1 million of losses less $4.0 million of related income taxes).
The Company classifies its operations into two business segments: Nitrogen Products and Methanol. The Nitrogen Products segment represents the sale of nitrogen products including that produced at the Company’s ammonia manufacturing and upgrading facilities. The Methanol segment represents sales of methanol including that produced at the Company’s two methanol manufacturing facilities.
Total revenues and operating income (loss) by segment for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were:
Nitrogen Products
Volumes and prices for 2005 and 2004 were:
*
After deducting outbound freight costs
Nitrogen products revenues increased by $585.4 million to $1,905.5 million for 2005 compared with $1,320.1 million for 2004 primarily as the result of the December 2004 acquisition of MCC and higher sales prices. Higher selling prices contributed $253.7 million to 2005 revenues as the result of increased demand and lower fertilizer supplies due to reduced production capacity in North America. Sales volumes in 2005 were higher than those of the previous year due primarily to the MCC acquisition.
Nitrogen products operating income decreased by $7.3 million to $131.5 million for 2005 from $138.7 million for 2004. Operating income in 2005 from the MCC business totaled $34.5 million, but was more than offset by lower nitrogen margins on other operations and the absence of the $17.9 million 2004 insurance recovery of product claim costs. Nitrogen margins declined principally as the result of increases to natural gas costs that outpaced selling price changes.
Natural gas costs increased $272.5 million from 2004 as unit costs, net of forward pricing gains and losses, and were $7.50 per million British thermal units (“MMBtu”) during 2005 compared to $5.37/MMBtu during 2004. As a result of forward price contracts, 2005 natural gas costs for the nitrogen products segment were $0.7 million lower than spot prices.
Methanol
Methanol revenues were $31.3 million and $186.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales volumes declined approximately 87% from the prior year primarily due to cessation of production from the Beaumont facility.
The methanol segment had an operating loss of $14.1 million during 2005 compared to operating income of $1.5 million in 2004. The 2005 operating loss reflected lower sales volumes and idle facility costs.
Other Operating Activities-Net
The Company had $3.7 million of charges from other operating activities in 2005 compared to $5.5 million in 2004. The decrease in expense relates primarily to administrative and legal fees for general corporate activities not allocable to any particular business segment.
Interest Expense-Net
Net interest expense was $45.4 million in 2005 compared with $49.8 million in 2004. The reduction in interest expense primarily related to higher cash balances during 2005 as compared to 2004, increased yields on the cash balances and a decrease in interest expense due to a 2004 fourth quarter $70.7 million redemption of Senior Notes due in 2010.
Minority Interest
Minority interest represents interest in the earnings of the publicly held common units of Terra Nitrogen Company, L.P. (TNCLP). The 2005 minority interest charge of $13.7 million reflected nitrogen earnings for TNCLP, which were included in their entirety in consolidated operating results. Minority interest charge of $11.2 million was recorded in 2004, which were included in their entirety in consolidated operating results.
Income Taxes
Terra’s income tax expense was $14.2 million in 2005, or 39% of pretax income, based primarily on statutory rates in the jurisdictions where the earnings arise.
Terra’s income tax benefit of $5.0 million in 2004 included reductions to tax reserves totaling $27.9 million for a reduced assessment by a foreign taxing authority.
Results of Continuing Operations-2004 Compared with 2003
Consolidated Results
The Company reported 2004 net income of $67.6 million on revenues of $1,509 million compared with a 2003 net loss of $12.5 million on revenues of $1,351 million. Diluted income (loss) per share for 2004 was $0.85 compared with $(0.16) for 2003. Results for 2004 and 2003 were favorably affected by income tax benefits of $27.9 million and $36.4 million, respectively, for reduced assessments by a foreign taxing authority and reversals of tax reserves established in prior years.
The 2004 net income also included $11.6 million attributable to an insurance recovery of product claim costs (representing $17.9 million of operating income less $6.3 million of related income taxes) and a $11.1 million loss from the early retirement of long-term debt primarily related to the Company’s redemption of $70.7 million in Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2010 (there were no tax benefits associated with this loss.)
The 2003 net loss included a $27.0 million net charge for the impairment of the Company’s Blytheville facility (representing $53.1 million impairment charge to operating income less $9.9 million allocated to minority interest and $16.2 million income tax benefits).
The Company classifies its operations in two business segments: Nitrogen Products and Methanol. The Nitrogen Products segment represents the sale of nitrogen products including that produced at the Company’s ammonia manufacturing and upgrading facilities. The Methanol segment represents sales of methanol including that produced at the Company’s two methanol manufacturing facilities.
MCC revenues and expense are included from the December 21, 2004, acquisition date and are not significant for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003.
Total revenues and operating income (loss) by segment for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were:
Nitrogen Products
Volumes and prices for 2004 and 2003 were:
Nitrogen products revenues increased by $181 million to $1,320 million for 2004 compared with $1,139 million for 2003 primarily as the result of higher sales prices. Selling prices were higher as the result of increased demand and lower fertilizer supplies caused by industry-wide production curtailments since mid-2003. Price increases also reflected higher imported product costs as the result of U.S. currency declines relative to other currencies and increased international freight rates. Sales volumes in 2004 were lower than those of the previous year due mostly to the Blytheville production facility’s permanent closure in May 2004.
Nitrogen products operating income, excluding 2003 charges for the impairment of long-lived assets, increased by $105.0 million to $138.7 million for 2004 from $33.7 million for 2003. Higher selling prices and recovery of product claim costs contributed $180.4 million and $17.9 million, respectively, to 2004 operating income. Theses factors were partly offset by higher natural gas costs and increased expenses.
Natural gas costs increased $76.1 million from 2004 as unit costs, net of forward pricing gains and losses, were $5.37 per million British thermal units during 2004 compared to $4.76/MMBtu during 2003. As a result of forward price contracts, 2004 natural gas costs for the nitrogen products segment were $14.6 million lower than spot prices.
Selling, general and administrative expenses assigned to the nitrogen products business segment totaled $41.9 million for 2004 compared to $30.2 million for 2003. The increase is primarily due to incentive pay accruals based on net income, professional fees associated with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and changes in the allocation methods of centralized expense centers between the nitrogen products and methanol business segments. During 2003, $5.6 million of the Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses were allocated to the methanol business segment. Those allocations were discontinued in 2004 as a result of contracts transferring the marketing rights for our methanol production to Methanex.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
During 2003, the Company recorded a $53.1 million charge for the impairment of the Blytheville, Arkansas facility as it concluded that future market conditions may not justify ongoing investment in the maintenance and replacement capital required to operate the Blytheville facility for its established useful life. The Blytheville production capabilities were permanently closed in May 2004.
Methanol
Methanol revenues were $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Approximately 85% of 2004 methanol revenues were realized under a contract providing Methanex with exclusive rights to all methanol production at our Beaumont, Texas facility. That contract was executed in December 2003 and requires the Company to sell the Beaumont production to Methanex at a price which will generally approximate cash production costs. In addition, Methanex pays the Company one-half of the cash margin attributable to Beaumont’s production based on realized methanol prices and actual natural gas costs. Other contract-related 2004 revenues include amounts received at signing that are deferred and recognized over the life of the contract on a straight-line basis.
During 2004, the Company realized $8.2 million of margin-sharing and deferred revenues under the Methanex contract. Methanol 2004 operating income also includes depreciation charges related to the
Beaumont facility and earnings realized on methanol sales from the Company’s Woodward, Oklahoma facility.
During 2003, methanol segment revenues were derived from market-based sales to third-party customers. Operating income was largely a function of revenues over production costs, including natural gas, and operating expenses.
Other Operating Activities-Net
The Company had $5.5 million of charges from other operating activities in 2004 compared to $6.1 million in 2003. These losses represent charges for amortization of deferred financing costs and legal fees related to general corporate activities not allocable to any particular business segment.
Interest Expense-Net
Net interest expense was $49.8 million in 2004 compared with $54.5 million in 2003. The reduction in interest expense primarily related to higher cash balances and the fourth quarter $70.7 million redemption of Senior Notes due in 2010.
Minority Interest
Minority interest represents interest in the earnings of the publicly held common units of Terra Nitrogen Company, L.P. (TNCLP). The 2004 minority interest charge of $11.2 million reflected nitrogen earnings for TNCLP, which were included in their entirety in consolidated operating results. Minority interest benefits of $8.6 million were recorded in 2003 as the result of TNCLP losses, which included an impairment charge for the Blytheville, Arkansas facility. These amounts are directly related to TNCLP losses and earnings.
Income Taxes
Terra’s income tax benefit was $5.0 million in 2004 and included reductions to tax reserves totaling $27.9 million for a reduced assessment by a foreign taxing authority. The 2004 benefit was net of a $2.5 million charge to eliminate tax benefits associated with U.S. losses.
Terra’s income tax benefit was $57.0 million in 2003 and also included reductions to tax reserves totaling $36.4 million for a reduced assessment by a foreign taxing authority and reversal of tax reserves provided in prior years. The 2003 benefit was reduced to $0.8 million to eliminate tax benefits associated with U.S. losses.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company’s primary uses of cash and cash equivalents is to fund its working capital requirements, make payments on its debt and other obligations and make payments for plant turnarounds and capital expenditures. The principal sources of funds are cash flow from operations and borrowings under available bank facilities.
Unrestricted cash and cash equivalent balances at December 31, 2005, were $86.4 million. Restricted cash and cash equivalent balances of $8.6 million at December 31, 2005 are restricted until qualified capital expenditures at the Verdigris, Oklahoma facility have been performed.
During 2005, cash and cash equivalents decreased $147.4 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $10.8 million. Cash used in financing activities was $144.6 million, primarily related to the early extinguishment of debt. Cash used for investing activities was $22.3 million, primarily for capital expenditures and plant turnaround costs, offset by distributions received from unconsolidated affiliates.
Net cash provided by 2005 operating activities of $10.8 million was composed of $174.2 million of cash provided from operating activities and $163.4 million used by higher net working capital balances. Net working capital balances increased $59.6 million and $45.6 million primarily as the result of higher prices and natural gas costs on accounts receivable and finished goods inventory values, respectively. Current liabilities also declined by $76.1 million during 2005 due to a reduction in customer prepayment arrangements. The Company had $52.9 million in customer prepayments at December 31, 2005 for the selling price and delivery costs of nitrogen products that it will deliver during the first half of 2006.
During 2005, the Company repaid $125 million of debt obligations related to the MCC acquisition during 2004.
During 2004, the Company issued 4.25% Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Series A Preferred Shares with a liquidation value of $120 million for net proceeds of $115.8 million. The Series A preferred shares are not redeemable by the Company, are convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $9.96 per common share at the option of the holder and may at the Company’s option be automatically converted to common shares after December 20, 2009 if the closing price for common shares exceeds 140% of the conversion price for any twenty days within a consecutive thirty day period prior to such conversion. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change to the Company’s capital structure, including a change of control, merger, or sale of the Company, holders of the Series A preferred shares may require the Company to purchase any or all of their shares at a price equal to their liquidation value plus any accumulated, but unpaid, dividends. The Company also has the right, under certain conditions, to require holders of the Series A preferred shares to exchange their shares for convertible subordinated debentures with similar terms.
During 2005 and 2004, the Company funded plant and equipment purchases of $30.8 million and $18.5 million, respectively, primarily for replacement or stay-in-business capital needs. The Company expects 2006 plant and equipment purchases to approximate $50 million consisting primarily of expenditures for replacement of equipment or to improve operating results at its manufacturing facilities.
Plant turnaround costs represent cash used for the periodic scheduled major maintenance of the Company’s continuous process production facilities that is performed at each plant, generally every two years. The Company funded $22.3 million and $28.9 million of plant turnaround costs in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company estimates 2006 plant turnaround costs will approximate $40 million.
On December 21, 2004, the Company entered into revolving credit facilities totaling $200 million that expire in June 2008. Borrowing availability under the credit facility is generally based on eligible cash balances, 85% of eligible accounts receivable and 60% of eligible inventory, less outstanding letters of
credit. These facilities include $50 million only available for the use of TNCLP, one of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries. There were no outstanding revolving credit borrowings and there were $15.6 million in outstanding letters of credit, resulting in remaining borrowing availability of approximately $177.3 million under the facilities. The Company is required to maintain a combined minimum unused borrowing availability of $30 million. The credit facility also requires that the Company adhere to certain limitations on additional debt, capital expenditures, acquisitions, liens, asset sales, investments, prepayments of subordinated indebtedness, changes in lines of business and transactions with affiliates. In addition, if the Company’s borrowing availability falls below a combined $60 million, it is required to have generated $60 million of operating cash flows, or earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items (as defined in the credit facility) for the preceding four quarters.
The Company’s ability to meet credit facility covenants will depend on future operating cash flows, working capital needs, receipt of customer prepayments and trade credit terms. Failure to meet these covenants could result in additional costs and fees to amend the credit facility or could result in termination of the facility. Access to adequate bank facilities is critical to funding the Company’s operating cash needs. Based on our December 31, 2005 financial position and the current market conditions for the Company’s finished products and for natural gas, the Company anticipates that it will be able to comply with its covenants through 2006.
The Company’s ability to manage its exposure to commodity price risk in the purchase of natural gas through the use of financial derivatives may be affected by limitations imposed by its bank agreement covenants.
Contractual obligations and commitments to make future payments at December 31, 2005 were:
(1)
The Company has a contractual obligation to purchase one-half of the ammonia produced by Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited. The purchase price is based on the average market price of ammonia, F.O.B. Caribbean, less a discount. Obligations in the above table are based on purchasing 360,000 short tons per year at the December 2005 average price paid. This contract expires in October 2018.
The Company’s pension projected benefit obligations were $454.5 million at December 31, 2005, which was $139.2 million higher than its pension plan assets. The pension projected benefit obligations were computed based on a 5.4% discount rate, which was based on yields for high-quality corporate bonds (Moody’s Investor Service “AA” rated or equivalent) with a maturity approximating the duration of the
Company’s pension obligation. Future declines in comparable bond yields would increase the Company’s pension obligation and future increases in bond yields would decrease the Company’s pension obligation. The Company’s pension obligation, net of plan assets, could increase or decrease depending on the extent that returns on pension plan assets are lower or higher than the discount rate. In addition, the pension obligation for the Company’s U.K. pension plan, which includes provisions to adjust benefit payments for general inflation rates, was estimated based on a 3.0% inflation rate. The Company’s pension obligation could increase or decrease based on actual U.K. inflation rates. The Company’s cash contributions to pension plans were $22.2 million in 2005 and are estimated at $8.3 million in 2006. Actual contributions could vary from these estimates depending on actual returns for plan assets, legislative changes to pension funding requirements and/or plan amendments.
Expenditures related to environmental, health and safety regulation compliance are primarily composed of operating costs that totaled $15.7 million in 2005. Because environmental, health and safety regulations are expected to continue to change and generally to be more restrictive than current requirements, the costs of compliance will likely increase. The Company does not expect compliance with such regulations will have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial position or net cash flows.
The Company incurred $2.0 million of 2005 capital expenditures to ensure compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations. The Company may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low nitrous oxide burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors to continue to achieve compliance with the Clean Air Act and similar requirements. These equipment requirements typically apply to competitors as well. The Company estimates that the cost of complying with these existing requirements in 2006, 2007 and 2008 and beyond will be less than $20 million in the aggregate.
The Company owns 75.3% of the common units of TNCLP, which in accordance with the partnership agreement, permits it to call all common units that it does not own.
During 2005, 2004 and 2003, TNCLP distributed $13.6 million, $8.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively, to the minority TNCLP common unitholders. TNCLP distributions are based on “Available Cash” (as defined in the Partnership Agreement).
During 2005, the Company paid $6.0 million for preferred share dividends.
Cash balances at December 31, 2005 were $95.0 million, of which $8.6 million is restricted.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In October 2004, The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) was signed into law. The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. multinationals to repatriate accumulated income earned outside the U.S. at an effective tax rate of 5.25%. On December 21, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued their staff position, “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004” Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 109-2. SFAS 109-2 allows companies additional time to evaluate the impact of the law and to record the tax effect of repatriation over several interim periods as they complete
their assessment of repatriating all or a portion of these unremitted earnings. The Company does not plan to reinvest or repatriate any foreign earnings as a result of the Jobs Act.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R requires measurement of all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair-value method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the adoption of SFAS 123R requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects and disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from share-based payment arrangements. In January 2005, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R is effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company has selected the Black-Scholes option-pricing model as the most appropriate fair-value method for its awards and will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over its awards’ vesting periods. The adoption of SFAS 123R will not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operation. However, uncertainties, including the Company’s future stock-based compensation strategy, stock price volatility, estimated forfeitures and employee stock option exercise behavior, make it difficult to determine whether the stock-based compensation expense that the Company will incur in future periods will be similar to the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosed in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets,” (SFAS 153) an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. SFAS 153 addresses the measurement of exchanges of nonmonetary assets and redefines the scope of transactions that should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. SFAS 153 is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges beginning in the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 153 to have a material impact on results of operation or financial condition.
In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations” (FIN 47). FIN 47 is an interpretation of SFAS 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” FIN 47 addresses the recognition of an unconditional retirement obligation when uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. The Company adopted FIN 47 during 2005. The effect of the adoption of FIN 47 was not material to the Company’s financial statements.
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,” (SFAS 154) which replaces Accounting Principles Board Opinions No. 20 “Accounting Changes” and SFAS 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements - An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 28.” SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes retrospective application, or the earliest practicable date, as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle and restatement with respect to the reporting of a correction of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005 and is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
In June 2005, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 05-06, “Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements” (EITF 05-06). EITF 05-06 provides guidance for determining the amortization period used for leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or purchased
after the inception (of a lease, collectively referred to as subsequently acquired leasehold improvement). EITF 05-06 provides that the amortization period used for the subsequently acquired leasehold improvements to be the lesser of (a) the subsequently acquired leasehold improvements’ useful lives, or (b) a period that reflects renewals that are reasonably assured upon the acquisition or the purchase. EITF 05-06 is effective on a prospective basis for subsequently acquired leasehold improvements purchased or acquired in periods beginning after the date of the FASB’s ratification, which was on June 29, 2005. The Company does not believe the adoption of EITF 05-06 will affect its results of operations and financial condition in fiscal 2006.
In March 2005, the FASB issued SFAS Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations”, which requires conditional asset retirement obligations to be recognized if a legal obligation exists to perform asset retirement activities and a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation can be made. FIN 47 also provides guidance as to when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 47 on December 31, 2005 and the adoption has not had a material affect on the Company’s financial statements.
In July 2005, the FASB issued proposed guidance concerning the accounting for uncertain tax positions. The proposal would require that an uncertain tax position meet a probable recognition threshold based on the merits of the position in order for the benefit to be recognized in the financial statements. The proposal also addresses the accrual of interest and penalties related to tax uncertainties and the classification of liabilities on the balance sheet. If implemented in its present form, the Company does not expect the adoption to have a material impact on the results of operations or financial condition.
Forward-Looking Precautions
Information contained in this report, other than historical information, may be considered forward-looking. Forward-looking information reflects management’s current views of future events and financial performance that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in financial markets, general economic conditions within the agricultural industry, competitive factors and price changes (principally, sales prices of nitrogen and methanol products and natural gas costs), changes in product mix, changes in the seasonality of demand patterns, changes in weather conditions, changes in agricultural regulations, and other risks detailed in the “Factors that Affect Operating Results” section of this discussion.
Item 7A.