ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
A glossary of Technical Terms appears at page 72.
Johnson Camp Property
Technical Report
Unless stated otherwise, information of a technical or scientific nature related to the Johnson Camp property is summarized or extracted from the Technical Report. The Technical Report is also referred to as a feasibility study in this annual report. Management’s plans, expectations and forecasts related to our Johnson Camp property are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Technical Report. The Technical Report was filed electronically on November 13, 2007, on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (commonly, known as “SEDAR”), and is publicly available on the Internet at www.sedar.com, under our Company’s profile.
Description and Location
We currently have one development property, the Johnson Camp property, which is located in Cochise County, approximately 65 miles (105 kilometers) east of Tucson, in Cochise County, Arizona, one mile north of the Johnson Road exit off of Interstate Highway 10 between the towns of Benson and Wilcox in all or parts of Sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 35 and 36, Township 15 South, Range 22 West. (See Figure 1: Location Map).
The Johnson Camp project currently includes: two open pits; one waste dump; three heap leach pads; a crushing, agglomeration and conveying system; a SX-EW processing plant; and ancillary facilities. The Burro Pit is larger than the Copper Chief Pit and contains 60% of the project reserves. The Burro Pit is located east of the SX-EW process plant. The Copper Chief Pit is located approximately 2,000 feet northwest of the Burro Pit.
The existing heap leach pads are located west of the open pits. The leach pads are divided into two major sections with solution collection facilities downstream of the first pad and downstream of pads two and three. A new leach pad is planned for future use and is anticipated to be located north of the Burro Pit and northeast of the Copper Chief Pit. The mine waste dump is located immediately to the east of the Burro Pit.
Figure 1: Location Map
Titles
The Johnson Camp property consists of 59 patented lode mining claims (889 acres), 92 unpatented lode mining claims (1,494 acres) and 509 acres of fee simple lands. (See Figure 2: Johnson Camp Land Status Map). Thus, the Johnson Camp property covers approximately 2,892 acres. All of the claims are contiguous, and some of the unpatented mining claims overlap. We keep the unpatented mining claims and patented claims in good standing by paying claim filing fees of approximately $30,000 per year and property taxes on the fee simple lands. The copper processing facilities and the Copper Chief and Burro open pits that serve as focal points for our mine plan are located on the patented mining claims or the fee simple lands.
We are the owner of the Johnson Camp property and the owner or holder of the claims. We are allowed to mine, develop and explore the Johnson Camp property, subject to the required operating permits and approvals, and in compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances. We believe that all of our claims are in good standing.
Our patented mining claims give us title to the patented lands and no further assessment work must be done; however, taxes must be paid. We have full mineral rights and surface rights on the patented lands. Unpatented mining claims give us the exclusive right to possess the ground (surface rights) covered by the claim, as well as the right to develop and exploit valuable minerals contained within the claim, so long as the claim is properly located and validly maintained. Unpatented mining claims however, may be challenged by third parties and the United States government. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
Figure 2: Johnson Camp Land Status Map
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Access to the Johnson Camp property is via Interstate Highway 10 and by gravel road. Due to its location just one mile north of Interstate Highway 10, the Johnson Camp property provides excellent access for transportation and delivery of bulk supplies and shipment of copper cathodes.
The Johnson Camp Mine is located on the eastern slope of the Little Dragoon Mountains. The average elevation of the property is approximately 5,000 feet above sea level. The climate of the region is arid, with hot summers and cool winters. Freezing is rare at the site. Historically, the Johnson Camp Mine was operated throughout the year with only limited weather interruptions.
Vegetation on the property is typical of the upper Sonoran Desert and includes bunchgrasses and cacti. Higher elevations support live oak and juniper, with dense stands of pinyon pine common on north-facing slopes.
The existing facilities include the SX-EW processing plant, an administrative and engineering office and warehouse, laboratory, truck shop, core storage building, plant mechanical shop, and various used vehicles, pumps and other equipment. The newly constructed crushing, conveying and stacking system include the following: One 42x65 inch gyratory crusher, conveyors feeding a 40,000 ton (10,000 ton live) coarse ore stockpile, three feeders and a conveyor that feeds two 6x20-foot screens, conveyor feeding a 100-ton surge bin, two conveyors feeding two H6800 hydrocone secondary crushers, conveyor feeding a 40,000 ton fine ore stockpile, three feeders and a conveyor feeding a 10x35-foot agglomerator, an approximate 3,000 foot overland conveyor feeding a stacking system that includes twenty-one 100-foot grasshopper conveyors and a 150-foot radial tele-stacker. The SX-EW processing plant was refurbished and expanded to handle solution from the new crushed and stacked ore and is comprised of a solvent extraction plant, an electrowinning tank house, a tank farm and four solution storage ponds. The solvent extraction plant consists of four extraction mixer-settlers and two strip mixer-settlers, and has a capacity of 2,500 to 5,000 gallons per minute depending if the circuit is in a series or parallel configuration. The electrowinning tank house consists of 88 electrowinning cells that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year. The tank farm, located in front of the tank house, is used for intermediate storage of electrolyte. The four solution storage ponds have a total capacity of approximately 18 million gallons. A new automated cathode stripping machine has been installed to strip copper cathodes from the stainless steel blanks.
The plant also includes a new cell house crane, a new boiler and associated heat exchanger, a new set of electrolyte filters, a clay filter press, and an upgrade to the transformer/rectifier, new pumper-mixers, and a sulfuric acid storage tank.
There are several access rights of way and two water wells which are located on the Johnson Camp property and one well on private land where we have access and water rights. Two additional wells are located on surrounding property where we have installed equipment to pump additional water for the mining operation as required. Potential water well sites have been identified on our land near Section 19 and could be drilled if additional water is required.
The Johnson Camp property receives electrical power from Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative (SSVEC). Effective October 1, 2009, we entered into a one year contract (with annual renewals unless either party notifies the other at least 90 days prior to the end of the current term) with SSVEC for the purchase of power. Power is received at two substations owned by us that can handle the additional power loads required for the expanded operations.
Our workforce at the Johnson Camp Mine is approximately 172 employees when fully operational. We have historically utilized contractors under our supervision for mining, drilling, blasting, loading and hauling the mined material, but have managed all other activities at the Johnson Camp Mine.
Assuming we are able to resume full mining operations, we now plan to utilize our own employees in the mining segment of the operations. Consequently, we will need to secure access to a mining fleet of approximately 14 trucks with an estimated capital cost of approximately $17 million. We plan to lease this fleet under a lease to purchase option. If we are unable to secure such a lease on commercially reasonable terms, we may need to raise additional capital or incur a significant increase in the cost of operations.
Geological Setting and Mineralization
The Johnson Camp property is located along the east fold of the Little Dragoon Mountains in southeastern Arizona. The rocks exposed on the Johnson Camp property range from the Pinal Schist that is located at the western end of the Johnson Camp property to the Escabrosa Limestone that is located at the eastern end of the Johnson Camp property, all of which contain some quartz monzonite porphyry. In the region of the Burro and Copper Chief open pits, the copper-bearing rocks dip moderately to the northeast and consist of sedimentary rocks that have been intruded by two diabase dikes.
The main copper bearing host rock units at the Johnson Camp Mine are the Abrigo, Bolsa quartzite, Pioneer Shale, and the Diabase formations. The Diabase formation is positioned at the base of the copper bearing rock units, overlain by the Bolsa quartzite, and the lower and middle Abrigo formations. In the Burro pit, oxide copper is located primarily on bedding planes as veins and replacements and along various fractures. In the Copper Chief pit, located approximately 1,500 feet to the north of the Burro pit, oxide copper occurs as disseminations in the diabase formation and along fractures within the diabase and in the Bolsa quartzite units. Other bulk-mineable copper exploration targets lie along trend from both the Copper Chief and Burro deposits.
The style of mineralization and the type of alteration recently mapped on the northern lower benches of the Burro pit suggest the possible presence beneath the property of a mineralized porphyry-type deposit. In addition to the alteration evidence, a prominent magnetic low anomaly is present between the Burro pit and Copper Chief deposit supporting the possible presence of a porphyry-type deposit at depth. Porphyry copper deposits are typically very large, low grade and require processing by recovery processes much different than those currently at Johnson Camp Mine.
The following cross section diagram illustrates the relative positions, and the geologic and mineralized nature of the various formations in the Burro pit.
Figure 3: Burro Pit Area
The following cross section diagram illustrates the relative positions, and the geologic and mineralized nature of the various formations in the Copper Chief pit.
Figure 4: Copper Chief Deposit
Historic Copper Production
From 1975 to 1986, Cyprus mined approximately 15,000,000 tons of ore grading approximately 0.6 percent total copper from the Burro pit. In addition, approximately 12,000,000 tons of waste rock was produced. All ore placed on the heaps was ROM, run-of-mine, (that is, not crushed). In total, approximately 107,000,000 pounds of cathode copper were produced by SX-EW methods. After the closure, Cyprus dismantled the SX-EW plant and moved the plant to another mine. Cyprus continued to maintain ownership of the Johnson Camp property until 1989, when it sold its holdings in the district to Arimetco.
In mid-1990, Arimetco constructed a new SX-EW plant on the Johnson Camp property, and rehabilitated the leach systems on the existing Cyprus pads and the collection, raffinate, and plant feed ponds. Arimetco resumed mining in the Burro pit in 1991, and made further improvements to the facility between 1993 and 1996. Arimetco began limited open pit mining from the Copper Chief deposit in 1996, and continued mining in both the Burro and Copper Chief deposits until 1997 when production was terminated. Ore placed on the heaps from 1991 through 1995 was run-of-mine (not crushed).
In 1996, based on metallurgical testing it conducted, Arimetco added a crushing plant to reduce the particle size of ore placed on the heaps in an effort to improve recoveries. The metallurgical test work indicated improved recoveries from crushed ore. Nord believed that the initial results from leaching of crushed ore placed on a new liner system installed by Arimetco were an increase in leach solution copper grade and an improvement in recoveries to the point where they matched the metallurgical test work performed on certain ore at a similar crush size. However, crushed ore represented less than 25 percent of the total ore that Arimetco had under leach. According to the Technical Report, these operating results, along with the column leach test results, clearly support the need to crush the ore to obtain reasonable recoveries under heap leach conditions.
Production by Arimetco between 1991 and 1997 for the Burro and Copper Chief pits totaled approximately 16,000,000 tons of ore grading approximately 0.35 percent total copper and 12,000,000 tons of waste, primarily from the Burro pit, producing approximately 50,000,000 pounds of cathode copper. Arimetco achieved recoveries of approximately 43 percent of the total copper grade from mostly uncrushed ore placed on the heaps. Arimetco ceased mining operations in mid-1997.
The acid soluble copper assay techniques used by Arimetco for ore grade estimation are not directly comparable to the acid soluble copper assay techniques used by Cyprus. Arimetco recoveries were calculated based on total copper assays. The use of two different assay techniques by Cyprus and Arimetco could have led to inconsistencies in or the skewing of the data underlying our estimates, thereby increasing the risk of an overestimation of ore reserves at Johnson Camp Mine. (See “Risk Factors -Risks Related to Our Company”).
Reserves
Our Company is currently in the process of revising its estimate of the proven and probable reserves at the Johnson Camp Mine. As our Company has allocated $0 to proven and probable reserves on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, a revision, if and when it occurs, is not expected to have a material impact on our Company’s consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, under current market conditions, we do not believe that a revision will trigger an impairment analysis for our Company’s long lived assets. A revision to the estimate of proven and probable reserves, when and if it occurs, will be accounted for on a prospective basis and will impact those items that are amortized via the units of production method - specifically, property and equipment and deferred revenue.
Summary of Reserve Estimates
A summary of the Johnson Camp proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2012 are presented in the table below. Further details on the Johnson Camp property can be found in the Technical Report.
Johnson Camp Mine
Summary of Proven and Probable Reserves
Notes:
The ore reserves were estimated in accordance with Industry Guide 7 of the Securities and Exchange Commission (sometimes referred to in this annual report as the “SEC”) and CIM Guidelines.
The actual tonnage and grade of reserves are generally expected to be within 90-95% of the estimate for proven reserves, and 70-80% for probable reserves.
Reserves are based on a copper price of $1.50/lb. and on total copper assays. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates used a copper price of $1.50/lb.
Reserves are based on operating costs estimated as of the second quarter of 2007.
The internal cutoff grade used in the reserve analysis was 0.063 - 0.069 percent total copper (depending on rock type). All inferred resource blocks were treated as waste, regardless of their estimated copper grade.
The foregoing summary of ore reserves is based on reserve estimates contained in the Technical Report. No new resource or reserve estimates have been performed; therefore, these reserves were calculated by subtracting from the original reserve estimates the material volumes reported as mined through July 2010, when mining of new ore was suspended.
Rom Leach Reserves
ROM (Run-of-Mine - not crushed) leach ore included in the proven and probable reserves is generally mineral resource in the measured or indicated classification that must be mined but is uneconomical for the complete crushing agglomerating process. ROM ore is hauled by mine trucks directly to the leach pad for leaching. Copper recovery is less than the fully processed crush and agglomerated ore but provides additional revenue to offset the total mining cost. All Cyprus ore placed on the heaps from 1975 to 1986 was ROM, and Arimetco ore placed ROM on the heaps from 1991 through 1995. All Lower Abrigo ore is mined as ROM. The physical characteristics of the Lower Abrigo are to fragmentize into small particles by blasting and thus additional crushing is unnecessary.
Other Mineralized Material
In addition to the above mentioned reserves, mineralized material is contained in the Burro and Copper Chief deposits at the Johnson Camp property and was estimated using the guidelines established in, and is compliant with, Canadian NI 43-101 standards. In addition, there are numerous other prospects of mineralized material that remain to be explored and tested.
Readers are cautioned that, for United States reporting purposes, SEC Industry Guide 7 (under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), as interpreted by Staff of the SEC, mineralized material other than reserves may not be disclosed in documents filed with the SEC. Further, under SEC standards, mineralization may not be classified as a "reserve" unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. Among other things, all necessary permits would be required to be in hand or issuance imminent in order to classify mineralized material as reserves under the SEC standards.
Drilling
Initial Drill Hole Database
The initial drill hole database for the Johnson Camp Mine consists of a total of 293 drill holes totaling 90,418 feet. Of these, 142 drill holes are contained in the Burro pit area and 151 drill holes are contained within the Copper Chief pit area. This database includes 12 confirmation diamond drill holes in the Burro and Copper Chief pit areas totaling 5,793 feet that were completed by Summo in 1998.
From October 1999 to January 2000, we conducted four exploration drilling programs using reverse circulation drilling in areas of the Johnson Camp property other than the Burro and Copper Chief deposit areas. Forty-three holes were drilled in the North area (above the Copper Chief), 17 holes were drilled in the Keystone area about one-half mile south of the Burro pit, a deep hole was drilled in the area between the Burro pit and the Copper Chief pit, and three condemnation holes were drilled in the area of our planned future leach pad and plant. Although certain drill results achieved in these four exploration drilling programs were encouraging, we found no copper mineralization that could be classified as reserves as a result of these programs.
Further Exploratory Drilling
In January 2008, we completed the first phase of preliminary exploratory drilling around the periphery of the existing boundaries of the Burro and Copper Chief pits. Twenty-five vertical reverse-circulation drill holes were completed adjacent to and to the south of the Burro Pit and in the Copper Chief deposit area on the Johnson Camp property. All of the related sample preparation and assays were performed utilizing industry standard analytical models by Arizona Assayers Inc., a laboratory independent to our company and doing business in Tucson, Arizona, as Skyline Assayers & Laboratories. A sample quality assurance/quality check program was followed, which called for the regular insertion of independent standards, blanks and duplicate samples.
The newer drill results, when combined with a previous drill hole, S-13, indicate the continuation of copper mineralization from the current south edge of the Burro Pit approximately 1,000 feet further to the south. The drill results also indicate that the copper mineralization in this area is hosted in the same rock units as at the Burro Pit. The drilling at Copper Chief increases the drill hole density within the current planned pit in the north area of the deposit and also expands copper mineralization to the northwest and southeast of the planned pit boundaries.
These drill results have been incorporated into a new block model for both the Burro and Copper Chief pits and new economic analysis and mine plans completed in 2010 and are the basis for end of year 2011 reserves and pit limits.
We completed 6 holes of a planned 15 drill hole exploration program in the fall of 2010. The drilling tested the continuation of the geology between the Burro and the Copper Chief pits. The results confirmed that the geology in the area between the pits is similar to the geology within the pits. The results of the drill program were complete too late to be included in the new resources model and mine plan.
Mining Operations
Based on the Technical Report, we expect the Johnson Camp Mine to produce approximately 25 million pounds of copper per year, for an anticipated mine life of approximately 13 years. However, as disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, we suspended the mining and crushing of ore at the Johnson Camp Mine in July 2010, and laid off approximately half of our workforce at the mine.
Based on our stacking plan, the existing leach pads have sufficient surface area for approximately one more year from the date of resumption of mining operations, at which time a new leach pad and pond will have to be constructed. However, we now believe that we will not be able to achieve our targeted production rate of 25 million pounds of copper per year until we have not only resumed mining operations, but have also completed and put into full operation our planned new leaching pad, which will be about double the size of two of our existing three pads. We estimate that we would incur approximately $18 million in capital costs for the development and construction of the new leach pad. Accordingly, our new leaching pad remains subject to financing, the availability of which cannot be assured. We expect that the new pad could be operational approximately 150 days after we receive such financing.
In addition, assuming we are able to resume full mining operations, we now plan to utilize our own employees in the mining segment of the operations. Consequently, we will need to secure access to a mining fleet of approximately 14 trucks with an estimated capital cost of approximately $17 million. We plan to lease this fleet under a lease to purchase option. If we are unable to secure such a lease on commercially reasonable terms, we may need to raise additional capital or incur a significant increase in the cost of operations.
Assuming that we are able to resume mining operations, our current operating plan for the crushed ore would remain as follows: The ore would be crushed to a P-80 of one inch (80% is less than one inch) and sulfuric acid would be added to the ore in the agglomerator, where the leaching kinetics would begin. The ore would be stacked on the leach pads at a height of 20 feet and a raffinate solution would be applied at varying application rates and leached for approximately 150 days. Once the new material has been placed on the pads and leached for approximately 150 days, a second 20-foot lift would be placed on the pads.
The open pit mining process encounters a fair amount of low grade material that does not contain sufficient recoverable copper to justify the crushing and agglomerating costs. However, it does contain sufficient recoverable copper to help offset mining costs. Early in 2010, the Johnson Camp Mine began sending low grade ore directly to the heap leach dumps without crushing to minus a P-80 of 1 inch. Therefore, we expect that the process for run-of-mine ore would remain as follows: The ore would be hauled with mine haul trucks directly to leach dump and stacked in 20 foot lifts. A raffinate solution would be applied at varying application rates and leached. New run-of-mine ore would be stacked on top as space is required.
Use of Total Copper Assays
For the reasons discussed below, the previous estimate of ore reserves at the Johnson Camp Mine was based on total copper assays and recoveries rather than soluble copper assays and recoveries.
Total copper values were available for both the Copper Chief and Burro deposits. The database of acid soluble copper values for the Burro deposit reflects two different analytical techniques: (a) a conventional acid soluble method used by Cyprus for 94 of the holes included in the drill hole database; and (b) a more aggressive methodology used by Arimetco for the other 48 drill holes included in the database for the purpose of estimating the ultimate recoveries that may be experienced in the heaps at the Johnson Camp Mine. In summary, total copper assays were the only common denominator for all drill hole assays included in the drill hole database. A reserve estimate based on total copper is an indirect measurement of the amount of copper that is metallurgically available for recovery. Accordingly, there is a risk that reserves model based on total copper values may have over-estimated the amount of recoverable copper. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
Data Verification
Four different major categories or levels of data verification have been completed at Johnson Camp Mine by Cyprus Copper, Arimetco, Summo, and others in evaluating the geological, drill hole, and assay database. Each major category or level of data verification provides a measure of confidence in the database. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that taken in aggregate, all four categories provide corroboration and thus a higher degree of confidence in the data. The categories include: individual inter-company verifications; intra-company verifications; third party reviews; and reconciliations.
Inter-Company Verifications
Cyprus conducted drilling and assaying with both internal and external check assay procedures for data verification. Cyprus had samples assayed at more than one external lab for both total copper and acid-soluble copper. Those external labs were reputable commercial analytical labs commonly employed by the mining and exploration industry at the time. A quality assurance quality control, or QA/QC, procedure was also in place whereby Cyprus composited sample pulps and re-submitted the composite for assay as a comparison with the average of individual assays. In addition, Cyprus did bottle roll tests on core samples to provide an additional analysis for comparison. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that, while these procedures were not done for every hole and every sample, they were done in sufficient amount to detect either errors in the analytical process or high variability in assays as a result of the geology and no significant or consistent variances were noted.
The majority of the drill holes in the resource database are core holes drilled by Cyprus. Arimetco drilled with core and by reverse circulation methods. Although Arimetco did not have the same quantity of internal or external check assays as Cyprus, Arimetco made extensive use of an independent, reputable commercial lab. In addition, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that the Arimetco basic data, drill logs and assays sheets were done in sufficient quality typical of industry activity at the time (1990’s).
In summary, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that both Cyprus and Arimetco conducted standard documented copper analyses in-house and with external labs, had some degree of QA/QC procedures in place and detected no significant problems with repeatability or accuracy of copper assays.
Intra-Company Verifications
The Johnson Camp Mine was operated by Cyprus and Arimetco and evaluated by Summo prior to our Company’s ownership of the Johnson Camp property. Arimetco conducted drilling and assaying that confirmed the work of Cyprus, and Summo conducted mapping, drilling and assaying that confirmed the work of Cyprus and Arimetco. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that it is a very compelling verification procedure when a second and third company does confirmation drilling and assaying, with different drilling techniques and analytical labs, and the data is correlative.
Summo drilled four holes in the Burro pit and nine in the Copper Chief pit as reverse circulation drill holes. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates examined the assay sheets and drill hole logs for a randomly selected Summo drill hole in the Burro pit and for adjacent drill holes by Cyprus and determined that the assay values in all three holes had the same general range of copper values, in the same lithological units, and while not intended as true twin-holes, each drill hole generally verifies the others.
Third Party Reviews
Various third party independent reviews have been conducted on the Johnson Camp property. For example, in 1999, Summo commissioned an engineering firm to complete a feasibility study for the Johnson Camp property. In 2000, we commissioned an engineering firm to complete a feasibility study and in 2005 we requested an updated feasibility study and technical report for the Johnson Camp property. In the opinion of Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates, these firms are known as reputable consulting/engineering companies providing audits, resource/reserve estimations and feasibility level evaluations to the mining industry. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates reviewed these reports and concluded that there are no serious data verification issues and that these reports are reasonable. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates found few database errors and omissions and acceptable limits of error.
The Summo commissioned feasibility study examined the drill hole database, geology, assays, bulk density measurements, QA/QC procedures and completed various block model-to-drill hole comparisons, and reconciliations of the model with historical productions. The Summo commissioned feasibility study verified the block model grades of their resource estimate against the Arimetco drill hole database. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates reviewed the Summo commissioned feasibility study and concluded that this work verifies that the constructed resource block model, is representative of the data base and that the examination by the engineering company and the prior operators verifies the database.
Independent sampling of remaining core to compare with historical assays was attempted, however a large portion of the split core from Cyprus drilling is no longer available and assays for samples that have been archived for over 20 years are not a good comparison with the originally fresh core samples. However, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that of the limited number of samples collected, individual sample variances occur, but globally the grades do not differ much.
Reconciliations
As the drill hole database is the foundation of the resource and reserve estimates, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that the most significant verification of the drill hole database was the comparison of its derived block model with the production of mined material. This was accomplished by a reconciliation of the drill hole determined block model tonnage and grade against the blast-hole determined tonnage and grade. The results of reconciliations indicated the model generally replicated or slightly underestimated grade for similar tonnages.
The feasibility study commissioned by Summo compared total historical production with the block model and found both tonnage and grade to be within 0.8% of the combined Cyprus and Arimetco production. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that this is a close correlation between the historical production and the database-derived block model.
Additional Third Party Review
A third party consulting firm observed, and Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concurred, that the basic information upon which verification relies is available for the Johnson Camp Property, including: pre-mine and post-mine mapping; drill hole geological logs; copies of daily drill reports; drill core sampling procedures (Cyprus); original or copies of original assay certificates from commercial analytical labs and the Cyprus Johnson Camp Mine lab; documented sample preparation and analytical procedures; standard analytical procedures used by laboratories, several vintages of geological maps, rock density procedures by an independent laboratory; blast hole pattern assay maps; production records as truck counts to leach dumps; actual production records (from blast holes) versus forecast production (from the deposit model); pre-feasibility and feasibility reports; current availability of geological personnel who actually performed some of the work; and a limited library of core samples and sample pulps.
In 2006, we commissioned a third party consultant to review the applicability of the drill hole data base. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates reviewed the verification work done by the consultant and concurred with the conclusions of the consultant. In April 2006, the consultant visited the Johnson Camp Mine and prepared a spreadsheet summary listing all available drill hole data. The consultant tabulated the rotary, reverse circulation and core drilling done on the Burro and Copper Chief deposits.
In May 2006, the consultant visited our Company’s offices in Tucson, Arizona for the purpose of completing an exhaustive audit of the Copper Chief and Burro Pit deposit electronic database. The consultant verified geologic drill hole logs for the model and verified assay certificates to the electronic database. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates considered the results of the verification to be quite positive. For example, the consultant checked and confirmed approximately 40% of the Copper Chief electronic database and found two typographical errors, and he checked approximately 20% of the Burro Pit electronic data base and found one omission.
With the exception of two shallow drilling programs by Cyprus and Arimetco all the assay certificates for all the data in the electronic database were located. Additionally, geologic logs for over 95% of the drilling completed in the resource areas were located and reviewed by Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates.
In summary, all four levels of data verification revealed only minor database errors. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concluded that the minor database errors were within acceptable levels, and they had no reason to believe that the Johnson Camp resource database does not accurately reflect the drill logs.
Metallurgical Test Work
Metallurgical testing was completed in three programs. The first was authorized by Arimetco in May 1995 and was completed at an independent laboratory. The two ore samples that were subjected to testing were collected at the Johnson Camp Mine by Arimetco personnel and consisted of, respectively, approximately 2,000 pounds of run-of-mine schist/shale ore and 8,500 pounds of run-of-mine Diabase ore. Seven column tests were used to evaluate the influence of crush size on copper extraction and each ore was tested at a nominal crush size of three inches and a nominal crush size of one inch. The results of the tests showed that when leached for 60 days, crushing the ore significantly increased the copper extraction for both sizes of crushed ore. The ore was still leaching copper when the test program was stopped at 60 days.
The second test program was authorized by Summo in August 1998 and was completed at another independent laboratory. Summo personnel collected the bulk ore samples from the Burro and Copper Chief pits. The locations of the bulk samples were based on preliminary channel sampling. The rock types chosen for sampling from the Burro pit included Lower Abrigo Formation, Bolsa Quartzite and two types of Diabase ore. Only one bulk sample of oxidized Diabase was obtainable to represent the Copper Chief ore, but a study of polished mineralogical sections prepared from core and/or reverse circulation drill cuttings indicated that the Diabase samples taken from the Burro pit were representative of the Diabase material contained in the Copper Chief deposit.
The third test program was authorized by our Company in August 2010 and was completed at a column leach test facility constructed on the mine site. Leach Inc., an independent contractor, supervised all phases of the column leach tests. Nord personnel collected the bulk ore samples from the Burro and Copper Chief pits. One sample of each of the four major rock formations was taken from each of the two pits. One sample of the Lower Abrigo Formation, Bolsa Quartzite, Diabase and Pioneer Shale were taken from the Burro Pit and the same rock formations were taken from the Copper Chief Pit. The locations of the eight bulk samples were based on preliminary channel sampling. The samples were crushed to P/80 minus one inch agglomerated, and loaded into eight-8 inch test columns 20 ft. in height. After a three day cure, leach solution made up of JCM raffinate to which acid had been added was pumped to each column at the rate of 0.0043 gallons per minute/ft2. PLS from each column was collected daily, analyzed, and both copper recovery and acid consumption calculated. The column tests ran for up to 111 days. The data suggests that the current assay method for determining acid soluble copper significantly underestimated the percentage of the copper which is actually soluble under the operating conditions at the Johnson Camp mine. The Company has decided not to make adjustments at this time to the existing mine plan but will monitor results and make appropriate adjustments when it restarts the mining of new ore.
Copper mineralogy varies within the deposits. In the Burro pit, approximately 76.5% of the total estimated ore reserve tonnage is located above a depth of 4,560 feet in a zone dominated by the copper oxide minerals chrysocolla and malachite. Some native copper has been observed disseminated throughout this range. In addition to copper oxide mineralization, copper sulfide mineralization is evident below an elevation of 4,600 feet “in a mixed zone”. Sulfide minerals, which typically convert to oxides on exposure to oxygen, are not as amenable to heap leach copper recovery techniques as oxides. The new reserve block model is based only on acid soluble copper assays which indicate copper oxide minerals amenable to leaching.
In the Copper Chief pit, the oxide copper mineralization is similar to that of the Burro pit. The entire Copper Chief pit ore reserve is located above the 4,560 elevation in the zone dominated by the copper oxide minerals chrysocolla and malachite. We do not expect that the recovery of copper from this deposit will be materially affected by sulfide mineralization.
In summary, the new reserve block model is based on acid soluble copper assays and should more accurately predict recoverable pounds of copper from ore placed on the leach pads.
The forecasted recoveries of copper that were reviewed by Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates in preparing their technical report are based on the column tests and are dependent on the crushing of the ore to a nominal size of one inch. The Arimetco test program indicated the importance of this parameter. Cyprus operated the Johnson Camp Mine for a run-of-mine operation whereby non-crushed ore was placed on the leach pads. Arimetco also ran the Johnson Camp Mine as a run-of-mine operation until late 1995 at which time it began crushing the ore to approximately 3 inches. Our current copper recovery estimates provide for extracting 100 percent of the acid soluble copper content of the ore mined, with crushing to a nominal size of one inch.
According to Cyprus’ records, it achieved copper extraction of up to 80 percent of the acid soluble copper from uncrushed, run-of-mine material. However, the Arimetco operation, which leached new run-of-mine ore, old Cyprus run-of-mine ore, and 4,300,000 tons of ore reported to have been crushed to a nominal size of three inches, achieved copper recovery (from 1991 through 1998) of 43 percent of total copper. Arimetco records do not distinguish between copper extracted from old Cyprus material, new run-of-mine ore, and new crushed ore.
In preparing its technical report, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates reviewed the metallurgical test work and concurred with the metallurgical recovery estimates. As indicated above, however, the increase in projected copper recovery rates over the historic copper recovery rates is premised on ensuring that the ore is crushed to a nominal size of one inch prior to being placed on the leach pads. This is consistent with Arimetco initial results from leaching of crushed ore placed on a new liner system - namely, an increase in leach solution copper grade and an improvement in recoveries to the point where they matched the metallurgical test work performed on certain ore at a similar crush size.
In summary, our expectations with respect to copper recovery rates significantly exceed historical experience at the Johnson Camp Mine, as we plan on continuing to crush the ore to a smaller size than previously crushed with the view to increasing leaching efficiency, once we resume mining operations. We believe that our expectations are reasonable, given our view that Cyprus and Arimetco placed uncrushed or improperly crushed ore on the leach pads, which resulted in differing recovery projections and rates. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet these expectations and projections at an operational level. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
Water Supply
Our mining operations require water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Production at the Johnson Camp Mine is dependent on continuous maintenance of our water rights.
Production water for the Johnson Camp Mine is currently supplied from three wells controlled or located on the Johnson Camp property and from two wells located on private land adjacent to our property. In late October 2009, the failure of a well casing in one of our wells that provides make-up water for our leaching operation resulted in several months of below forecasted pregnant leach solution flow rates through our SX plant, and copper production was adversely affected. By early January 2010, we had placed two new wells into operation which have resulted in significantly improved pregnant leach solution flow rates that now are at the levels necessary to achieve our production targets when fully operational. However, it may be necessary to drill additional wells on our property in order to expand our leaching operation or make additional upgrades to existing wells.
Consideration is being given to once again tapping into the water source of the well that suffered a collapse of its well casing by drilling a new well beside the location of the aforementioned malfunctioning well, as it is believed that there remains a significant water resource that could produce an additional 200-300 gallons per minute. In addition, recent drilling associated with geophysical testing demonstrated that that particular well was capable of producing 130 gallons per minute. Activation of these two wells in combination could likely produce, in themselves, nearly 50% of the water requirements for Johnson Camp Mine’s operation.
In August 2010, we entered into an agreement with a nearby rancher for the purchase of water from any of his three wells that have a capacity of approximately 500 to 600 gallons per minute which is currently approximately 150% more than is required at this time. The aquifer associated with these wells has been tested revealing that the sustainable yield of the aquifer is greater than 1600 gallons per minute.
Royalty Obligations
Arimetco
Copper metal produced from the Johnson Camp Mine is subject to a $0.02 per pound royalty payable to Arimetco when copper prices are in excess of $1.00 per pound. The royalty is capped at an aggregate of $1,000,000. During 2012 and 2011, the Company accrued royalty expense of $45,140 and $71,643, respectively, and made payments thereon of $36,250 and $105,000, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has incurred and paid a total of $521,294 and $393,231, respectively, under this commitment. Accordingly, the total amount accrued under this obligation as of December 31, 2012 is $128,063 and is included within accounts payable on the consolidated balance sheet.
Royal Gold
During March 2009, the Company sold a 2.5% net smelter royalty on the mineral production sold from the existing mineral rights at Johnson Camp to Royal Gold (formerly known as IRC Nevada Inc.), for net proceeds of approximately $4,950,000. This amount was recorded on the consolidated balance sheet as deferred revenue and is being amortized to revenue over the life of the mine based on a “units of production method” basis. During 2012 and 2011, the Company accrued royalty expense of $203,427 and $361,069, and made payments thereon of $15,000 and $195,000, respectively. Accordingly, the total amount accrued under this obligation as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 is $1,350,182 and $1,161,755, respectively, and is included within accounts payable on the consolidated balance sheets.
Under the terms of the related agreement, amounts that are not paid to Royal Gold in accordance thereof accrue interest at an annual rate of 12%. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, $247,042 and $110,269, respectively, in accrued interest was included in accrued interest on the consolidated balance sheets.
United States Mining and Environmental Laws
Arizona State Mining Laws
Mining in the State of Arizona is subject to federal, state and local laws. Three types of these laws are of particular importance to the Johnson Camp property: those affecting land ownership and mining rights; those regulating mining operations; and those dealing with the environment. The Johnson Camp current mining operations are located on private land including both patented mining claims and fee simple lands.
Our exploration activities in the United States are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under various mining and environmental laws. The nature and scope of regulation depends on a variety of factors, including the type of activities being conducted, the ownership status of land on which the operations are located, the nature of the resources affected, the states in which the operations are located, the delegation of federal air and water-pollution control and other programs to state agencies, and the structure and organization of state and local permitting agencies. We evaluate our projects in light of the cost and impact of current regulations on the proposed activity, and evaluate new laws and regulations as they develop to determine the impact on, and changes necessary to, our operations.
The Johnson Camp property also includes unpatented claims. The rights of mineral claimants on federal lands are governed by both the Mining Law of 1872 and the mining claim location requirements of Arizona law. Under federal mining law, a mining claim may be patented and conveyed from the United States into fee ownership. An unpatented mining claim is a right of possession in the claimant to develop and mine federal lands and minerals owned by the United States. Mining claims are located in accordance with both state and federal law, which require notice by placing monuments at the claim site and registration with the county recorder; an annual affidavit showing monies spent on labor or improvements is required to maintain the claim. Congress has placed a moratorium on the processing of mineral patent applications filed after 1994.
Generally, compliance with environmental and related mining health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Mine Safety and Health Act, requires us to obtain permits issued by regulatory agencies and to file various reports, keep records of our operations and respond to governmental inspections. Some permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions and may be subject to a public review process during which opposition to our proposed operations may be encountered.
U.S. Federal and State Environmental Law
Our past and future activities in the United States may cause us to be subject to liability under various federal and state laws for the protection of the environment.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), imposes strict, joint, and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Liable parties include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities at which hazardous substances were disposed or released into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time of such disposal or release. This liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damages to natural resources. Arizona’s analogue to CERCLA, is the Water Quality Assurance Revolving Fund (WQARF) statute.
Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and related state laws, including the Arizona Hazardous Waste Management Act (HWMA), the generation, transport, treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous or solid wastes associated with certain mining-related activities are highly regulated. Administration of the federal RCRA programs was delegated to Arizona and is handled through the HWMA. RCRA and HWMA costs may also include corrective action or clean-up costs. Failure to comply can create a fineable condition.
Mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, such as crushers and storage facilities, and from mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment. All of these sources are subject to review, monitoring, permitting, and/or control requirements under the federal Clean Air Act and related state air quality laws. The substantive requirements of the Clean Air Act, including permitting and enforcement of standards are administered by Arizona and certain counties depending upon the size and nature of sources of air emissions. Air quality permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the permitting conditions and regulated emissions. In August 2008, we received an air quality permit from ADEQ.
Under the federal Clean Water Act and delegated state water-quality programs, point-source discharges into “Waters of the United States” are regulated by the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) program. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act regulates the discharge of dredge and fill materials into “Waters of the United States,” including wetlands. Storm water discharges also are regulated under the storm water program. All of those programs impose permitting and other requirements on our operations. Arizona has been delegated authority under the federal NPDES permitting program. We maintain an active Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan onsite and regularly update the plan according to new rules and/or changes in on-site conditions. In addition, certain proposed activities (increased heap leach pad capacity, new ponds and waste dump facilities) may require a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers section 404 Dredge & Fill Permit. We are examining this in more detail.
We have also adopted a Spill Prevention Control and Counter Measures Plan.
The federal Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, that implements the Community-Right-To-Know portions of CERCLA, from time-to-time may require us to file annual toxic chemical release forms. This is dependent on the amount and character of the materials we will have and use at the facility.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires an assessment of the environmental impacts of “major” federal actions. The “federal action” requirement can be satisfied if the project involves federal land or if the federal government provides financing or permitting approvals. NEPA does not establish any substantive standards. It merely requires the analysis of any potential impact. The scope of the assessment process depends on the size of the project. An Environmental Assessment (EA) may be adequate for smaller projects which are found to have no significant impacts. An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which is much more detailed and broader in scope than an EA, is required for larger projects with significant impacts. NEPA compliance requirements for any of our proposed projects, such as federal approval of a mine plan involving more than five acres per year on unpatented mining claims, could result in additional costs or delays. There is no current Arizona law or state procedure comparable to the federal NEPA and the EA/EIS process. Although all current mine facilities on the Johnson Camp property are situated on private land, future exploration on the Johnson Camp property and our other properties may involve unpatented mining claims.
The Endangered Species Act (ESA) is administered by the U.S. Department of Interior’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The purpose of the ESA is to conserve and recover listed endangered and threatened species of flora and fauna and their habitat. Under the ESA, “endangered” means that a species is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range. “Threatened” means that a species is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future. Under the ESA, it is unlawful to “take” a listed species, which can include harassing or harming members of such species or significantly modifying their habitat. Arizona has similar laws protecting wildlife and native plants. We conduct wildlife and plant inventories as required as part of the environmental assessment process prior to initiating exploration projects.
Under Arizona’s Aquifer Protection Permit Program, facilities that “discharge”, including certain mining operations, are required to obtain an Aquifer Protection Permit (“APP”).
The Johnson Camp property has undergone mining activities for a period of over 125 years. We acquired the Johnson Camp property from Arimetco subject to a number of conditions that constituted aquifer protection law violations and compliance measures. Accordingly, in connection with the acquisition, Consent Order P-139-99 was entered with the ADEQ in June 1999. We agreed to upgrade and improve certain of the facilities and complete certain remediation activities at the Johnson Camp property by September 2000. On January 3, 2001, Consent Order P-401-01 was entered with the ADEQ which replaced Consent Order P-139-99. Consent Order P-401-01 allowed the Johnson Camp Mine to continue to operate and to make improvements to the facility with the view to bringing it into compliance with current Arizona statutes.
On September 7, 2002, the ADEQ issued Compliance Order APP-1 14-02. That order required the following:
the Johnson Camp Mine be brought into compliance with Arizona’s aquifer protection laws;
a Stipulated Judgment and Stipulated Judgment Entry Agreement be entered with the ADEQ which provided for civil penalties in the amount of $4,325,000 as a consequence of violation of Consent Order #P401-1 and the aquifer protection laws, subject to the agreement by the ADEQ that it would not file for entry of the judgment unless Compliance Order APP-1 14- 02 was violated and the violation was not cured on a timely basis, or unless we became the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency or receivership proceeding prior to achieving compliance with Compliance Order APP-1 14-02; and
an Escrow Agreement is entered with the ADEQ requiring a $1,500,000 deposit by our Company into an escrow account to be used solely to pay for the direct costs of bringing the Johnson Camp Mine into compliance with Compliance Order APP-1 14-02 and the aquifer protection laws.
In response to Compliance Order APP-1 14-02, we applied the $1,500,000 in escrowed funds to environmental remediation activities at the Johnson Camp Mine and to the preparation and filing of an Aquifer Protection Permit application with the ADEQ in June 2003.
The ADEQ responded to the aquifer protection permit application by letter dated September 2, 2003 which identified a comprehensive list of specific deficiencies. A partial response was submitted on September 28, 2006, however certain financial assurances required by the ADEQ could not be provided at that time. In reply, the ADEQ issued an Administrative Review Notice dated May 18, 2007 which included, among other things, lack of the required financial assurances as a deficiency. We submitted a response on July 2, 2007, but were unable to provide certain financial assurances in a form acceptable to the ADEQ. On July 6, 2007, a notice of violation was issued citing the failure to provide the required financial assurances. On August 1, 2007, the outstanding financial assurances were submitted to the ADEQ, and, on August 10, 2007, a formal response to the notice of violation including documentation evidencing submission of financial assurances was filed.
On August 15, 2007, the ADEQ declared that all components necessary for the Aquifer Protection Permit application were received by the ADEQ, at which time the ADEQ commenced its substantive technical review process.
In October 2010, the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ) issued an Aquifer Protection Permit (APP) for the Johnson Camp Mine property.
As previously disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, our Company and ADEQ reached an agreement to settle the all unresolved issues resulting from previously issued Notices of Violation in respect of our APP for a penalty of $65,000 and Nord’s completion of several monitoring wells and the installation of drinking water system under a definitive schedule. These improvements were completed by June of 2011 at an estimated cost approximately $400,000. In conjunction with this settlement, ADEQ also agreed to the termination of the outstanding Compliance Order. A Consent Judgment in Superior Court reflecting these key provisions resolving these matters was finalized in April 2011. As of September 30, 2012, the liability was paid in full.
In December 2011, Nord received notification from the ADEQ that it has made the APP subject to a significant amendment. Receipt of the amended APP is subject to fulfilling certain standard conditions -in particular, that Nord pay fees to ADEQ for the technical review of the application for the APP, and that Nord submit an updated Financial Assurance Mechanism (reclamation bond) for an additional $575,000.
The Company plans to finance this as part of the funding to build the new leaching pad, if such funding becomes available. Upon its issuance, the amended APP will supersede the APP issued in October 2010.
We are committed to materially complying with all requirements under applicable environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Our policy is to conduct our business in a manner that safeguards public health and mitigates the environmental effects of our business activities. To comply with these laws and regulations, we have made, and in the future may be required to make, capital and operating expenditures.
U.S. Federal and State Reclamation Requirements
We are subject to mine plan and land reclamation requirements under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and/or the Arizona Mined Land Reclamation provisions, which are implemented through permits and operations and reclamation plans that apply to exploration and mining activities. These requirements mandate reclamation of disturbed areas and require the posting of bonds or other financial assurance in an amount sufficient to satisfy expected reclamation costs. If reclamation obligations are not met, the designated agency could draw on these bonds and letters of credit to fund expenditures for reclamation requirements.
Reclamation requirements generally include stabilizing, contouring, and re-vegetating disturbed lands, controlling drainage from portals and waste rock dumps, removing roads and structures, neutralizing or removing process solutions, monitoring groundwater at the mining site, and maintaining visual aesthetics. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with and are committed to maintaining all of our financial assurance and reclamation obligations pursuant to our permits and applicable laws.
Our Reclamation and Closure Plan
The previous owner of the Johnson Camp property, Arimetco Inc., had no reclamation or closure plans, nor is there a bond outstanding to perform reclamation and closure activities. We submitted our reclamation and mine closure plan to the Arizona State Mine Inspectors Office in July 2007 which plan contemplates reclaiming all mining disturbances occurring after 1987 to a level that will support the designated post-mining land use. Open pit mines are excluded from reclamation requirements; however, waste dumps, tailing piles, leach facilities, process water ponds, site buildings and roadways will require closure and reclamation.
Components of our reclamation plan and closure plan include four separate post mining land use objectives based on public safety, existing and historic land uses, climate, soil quantity and quality, and economic feasibility. These include: rangeland; future mineral exploration and development; storm water management and processing waste rock materials for sale as landscape material, riprap and railroad ballast to contractors and the public.
Our closure plan includes measures to be taken to prevent discharges of pollutants from the facility after operations cease, the methods that we will use to secure the facility, and any other measures needed to protect groundwater resources, including post-closure monitoring and maintenance as needed. Mine closure costs from existing and future impacts of the contemplated operations have been estimated to total approximately $10,100,000 based on 2011 dollars. The Company projects that these costs to be predominately incurred in 2023 and 2024, at the end of the Johnson Camp Mine’s estimated useful life.
Status of Permits - Summary
The development, operation, closure and reclamation of mining projects in the United States requires numerous notifications, permits, authorizations and public agency decisions. This section does not attempt to exhaustively identify all of the permits and authorizations that need to be obtained, but instead focuses on those that are considered to be the main permits that are on the critical path for project startup. These are summarized in the table below:
Permit
Status
Air Quality Permit
In August 2008, an air quality permit was issued from the ADEQ which permitted construction and further mining and crushing operations at the Johnson Camp Mine.
Hazardous Material Transport and Storage
None Required. Material Safety Data Sheets are maintained on property.
Explosives Storage and Use
Mining Contractor is responsible for use and storage of explosives and is permitted accordingly.
Weights and Measures
Site is licensed by the Arizona Department of Weights and Measures for the weighing of cathode copper for shipment and sale.
Aquifer Protection Permit (APP)
APP issued by ADEQ in October 2010; APP made subject to an amendment in December 2011. Receipt of amended APP is subject to fulfilling certain standard conditions: Nord to pay fees to ADEQ for the technical review of the APP application, and submit an updated Financial Assurance Mechanism (reclamation bond) for an additional $575,000.
Storm Water National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Permit number AZR05B377 issued on March 7, 2001. A Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan has been fully developed and was revised and updated in December 2008.
Water Supply
4 existing wells are permitted: Moore Mine (#36-66376), Republic Mine (#36-66377), Black Prince Mine (#36-66378) and Section 19 Well (#36-66379). Nord is currently working with its engineering consultant and ADEQ for approval of an on-site drinking water system.
Reclamation and Mine Closure Plan
A Revised and Updated Reclamation and Mine Closure Plan with adequate financial assurances was submitted to the Arizona State Mine Inspectors Office in December, 2011. The Plan is under review.
Landscape and Aggregate Rock Operation
The Johnson Camp property includes decorative and structural stone operations, which produce landscape and aggregate rock from the overburden piles at the Johnson Camp Mine. We currently lease the landscape rock operation to Texas Canyon Rock & Sand in exchange for royalty payments based on tons sold. In October 2012, we received $180,000 from Texas Canyon Rock & Sand in exchange for $204,000 in royalty payment credits. As of December 31, 2012, the Company owed $136,930 in royalty payment credits.
The rock currently being sold for landscaping purposes is bolsa quartzite, and is known in the market as Coronado Brown. We caused Cochise Aggregates and Materials, Inc. to certify “Coronado Brown Landscape Rock” as a trade name in the State of Arizona on July 15, 2005. We do not consider that the landscape and aggregate rock operations material to our financial results of operation.
OTHER PROPERTIES
Texas Arizona Mines Project
In July 2004, we entered into an option agreement with an individual named Shirley Bailey to acquire a 100% interest in four unpatented mining claims for a polymetallic exploration target in Cochise County, Arizona, known as the Texas Arizona Mine. We paid $980 to acquire the option in 2004 and an additional $10,000 in 2008 to exercise the option. The claims are located in the Johnson Mining District approximately three miles from the Johnson Camp Mine. We did not consider these claims to be material to our overall operations, and we abandoned them in 2011, writing off the $10,980 amount formerly capitalized.
ITEM 3.