ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
A glossary of Technical Terms appears at page 82.
Johnson Camp Property
Technical Report
Unless stated otherwise, information of a technical or scientific nature related to the Johnson Camp property is summarized or extracted from the Technical Report. The Technical Report is also referred to as a feasibility study in this annual report. Management’s plans, expectations and forecasts related to our Johnson Camp property are based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are set out only in the full Technical Report. The Technical Report was filed electronically on November 13, 2007, on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (commonly, known as “SEDAR”), and is publicly available on the Internet at www.sedar.com, under our Company’s profile.
Description and Location
We currently have one development property, the Johnson Camp property, which is located in Cochise County, approximately 65 miles (105 kilometers) east of Tucson, in Cochise County, Arizona, one mile north of the Johnson Road exit off of Interstate Highway 10 between the towns of Benson and Willcox in all or parts of Sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 35 and 36, Township 15 South, Range 22 West. (See Figure 1: Location Map).
The Johnson Camp project currently includes: two open pits; one waste dump; three heap leach pads; a crushing, agglomeration and conveying system; a SX-EW processing plant; and ancillary facilities. The Burro Pit is larger than the Copper Chief Pit and contains 60% of the project reserves. The Burro Pit is located east of the SX-EW process plant. The Copper Chief Pit is located approximately 2,000 feet northwest of the Burro Pit.
The existing heap leach pads are located west of the open pits. The leach pads are divided into two major sections with solution collection facilities downstream of the first pad and downstream of pads two and three. A new leach pad is planned for future use and is anticipated to be located north of the Burro Pit and northeast of the Copper Chief Pit. The mine waste dump is located immediately to the east of the Burro Pit.
Figure 1: Location Map
Titles
The Johnson Camp property consists of 59 patented lode mining claims, 102 unpatented lode mining claims and 617 acres of fee simple lands. (See Figure 2: Johnson Camp Land Status Map). The patented claims comprise approximately 871 acres and the unpatented claims comprise approximately 1,604 acres. Thus, the Johnson Camp property covers approximately 3,092 acres. All of the claims are contiguous, and some of the unpatented mining claims overlap. We keep the unpatented mining claims in good standing by paying fees of $13,250 per year to the United States Federal Government. We keep the fee simple and patented claims in good standing by paying property taxes and claims filing fees of approximately $35,000 per year. The copper processing facilities and the Copper Chief and Burro open pits that serve as focal points for our mine plan are located on the patented mining claims or the fee simple lands.
We are the owner of the Johnson Camp property and the owner or holder of the claims. We are allowed to mine, develop and explore the Johnson Camp property, subject to the required operating permits and approvals, and in compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances. We believe that all of our claims are in good standing.
Our patented mining claims give us title to the patented lands and no further assessment work must be done; however, taxes must be paid. We have full mineral rights and surface rights on the patented lands. Unpatented mining claims give us the exclusive right to possess the ground (surface rights) covered by the claim, as well as the right to develop and exploit valuable minerals contained within the claim, so long as the claim is properly located and validly maintained. Unpatented mining claims however, may be challenged by third parties and the United States government. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
Figure 2: Johnson Camp Land Status Map
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
Access to the Johnson Camp property is via Interstate Highway 10 and by gravel road. Due to its location just one mile north of Interstate Highway 10, the Johnson Camp property provides excellent access for transportation and delivery of bulk supplies and shipment of copper cathodes.
The Johnson Camp Mine is located on the eastern slope of the Little Dragoon Mountains. The average elevation of the property is approximately 5,000 feet above sea level. The climate of the region is arid, with hot summers and cool winters. Freezing is rare at the site. Historically, the Johnson Camp Mine was operated throughout the year with only limited weather interruptions.
Vegetation on the property is typical of the upper Sonoran Desert and includes bunchgrasses and cacti. Higher elevations support live oak and juniper, with dense stands of pinyon pine common on north-facing slopes.
The existing facilities include the SX-EW processing plant, an administrative and engineering office and warehouse, laboratory, truck shop, core storage building, plant mechanical shop, and various used vehicles, pumps and other equipment. The newly constructed crushing, conveying and stacking system include the following: One 42x65 inch gyratory crusher, conveyors feeding a 40,000 ton (10,000 ton live) coarse ore stockpile, three feeders and a conveyor that feeds two 6x20-foot screens, conveyor feeding a 100-ton surge bin, two conveyors feeding two H6800 hydrocone secondary crushers, conveyor feeding a 40,000 ton fine ore stockpile, three feeders and a conveyor feeding a 10x35-foot agglomerator, an approximate 3,000 foot overland conveyor feeding a stacking system that includes twenty-one 100-
foot grasshopper conveyors and a 150-foot radial tele-stacker. The SX-EW processing plant was refurbished and expanded to handle solution from the new crushed and stacked ore and is comprised of a solvent extraction plant, an electrowinning tank house, a tank farm and four solution storage ponds. The solvent extraction plant consists of four extraction mixer-settlers and two strip mixer-settlers, and has a capacity of 2,500 to 5,000 gallons per minute depending if the circuit is in a series or parallel configuration. The electrowinning tank house consists of 88 electrowinning cells that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year. The tank farm, located in front of the tank house, is used for intermediate storage of electrolyte. The four solution storage ponds have a total capacity of approximately 18 million gallons. A new automated cathode stripping machine has been installed to strip copper cathodes from the stainless steel blanks.
The plant also includes a new cell house crane, a new boiler and associated heat exchanger, a new set of electrolyte filters, a clay filter press, and an upgrade to the transformer/rectifier new pumper-mixers, and a sulfuric acid storage tank.
There are several access rights of way and three water wells which are located on the Johnson Camp property and one well on private land where we have access and water rights. Potential water well sites have been identified on our land near Section 19 and will be drilled if additional water is required.
Commercial electrical power and telephone lines remain in place and operational. The Johnson Camp property receives electrical power from Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative (SSVEC). We are in discussions with SSVEC to negotiate a new long term power contract. Power is received at two substations owned by us that can handle the additional power loads required for the expanded operations. Our workforce at the Johnson Camp Mine is approximately 70 employees. We utilize contractors under our supervision for mining, drilling, blasting and hauling the mined material. We manage all other activities at the Johnson Camp Mine. We believe that there are sufficient skilled operating, maintenance, and technical personnel available that can be employed for the Johnson Camp Mine.
Geological Setting and Mineralization
The Johnson Camp property is located along the east fold of the Little Dragoon Mountains in southeastern Arizona. The rocks exposed on the Johnson Camp property range from the pinal schist that is located at the western end of the Johnson Camp property to the escabrosa limestone that is located at the eastern end of the Johnson Camp property, all of which contain some quartz monzonite porphyry. Large disseminated copper deposits occur in several rock formations at the Johnson Camp Mine. In the region of the Burro and Copper Chief open pits, the copper-bearing rocks dip moderately to the northeast and consist of sedimentary rocks that have been intruded by two diabase dikes.
The main copper bearing host rock units at the Johnson Camp Mine are the Abrigo, Bolsa Quartzite, Pioneer Shale, and the Diabase formations. The Diabase formation is positioned at the base of the copper bearing rock units, overlain by the Bolsa Quartzite, and the lower and middle Abrigo formations. In the Burro pit, oxide copper is located primarily on bedding planes as veins and replacements and along various fractures. In the Copper Chief pit, located approximately 1,500 feet to the north of the Burro pit, oxide copper occurs as disseminations in the Diabase formation and along fractures within the Diabase and in the Bolsa Quartzite units. Other bulk-mineable copper exploration targets lie along trend from both the Copper Chief and Burro deposits.
The style of mineralization and the type of alteration recently mapped on the northern lower benches of the Burro pit suggest the possible presence beneath the property of a mineralized porphyry-type deposit. In addition to the alteration evidence, a prominent magnetic low anomaly is present between the Burro pit and Copper Chief deposit supporting the possible presence of a porphyry-type deposit at depth. Porphyry
copper deposits are typically very large, low grade and require processing by recovery processes much different than those planned for the Johnson Camp Mine.
The following cross section diagram illustrates the relative positions, and the geologic and mineralized nature of the various formations in the Burro pit.
Figure 3: Burro Pit Area
The following cross section diagram illustrates the relative positions, and the geologic and mineralized nature of the various formations in the Copper Chief pit.
Figure 4: Copper Chief Deposit
Historic Copper Production
From 1975 to 1986, Cyprus mined approximately 15,000,000 tons of ore grading approximately 0.6 percent total copper from the Burro pit. In addition, approximately 12,000,000 tons of waste rock was produced. All ore placed on the heaps was run-of-mine (that is, not crushed). In total, approximately 107,000,000 pounds of cathode copper were produced by SX-EW methods.
Cyprus used a variety of analytical techniques to determine acid soluble copper grades during its operation of the Johnson Camp property and the copper grades for ore placed for leach were reported as acid soluble copper. Recovery of copper by Cyprus totaled 80 percent of the acid soluble copper grade placed on the leach pads. After the closure, Cyprus dismantled the SX-EW plant and moved the plant to another mine. Cyprus continued to maintain ownership of the Johnson Camp property until 1989, when it sold its holdings in the district to Arimetco.
In mid-1990, Arimetco constructed a new SX-EW plant on the Johnson Camp property, and rehabilitated the leach systems on the existing Cyprus pads and the collection, raffinate, and plant feed ponds. Arimetco resumed mining in the Burro pit in 1991, and made further improvements to the facility between 1993 and 1996. Arimetco began limited open pit mining from the Copper Chief deposit in 1996, and continued mining in both the Burro and Copper Chief deposits until 1997 when production was terminated. Ore placed on the heaps from 1991 through 1995 was run-of-mine (not crushed).
In 1996, based on metallurgical testing it conducted, Arimetco added a crushing plant to reduce the particle size of ore placed on the heaps in an effort to improve recoveries. The metallurgical test work indicated improved recoveries from crushed ore. We believe that the initial results from leaching of crushed ore placed on a new liner system installed by Arimetco were an increase in leach solution copper grade and an improvement in recoveries to the point where they matched the metallurgical test work performed on certain ore at a similar crush size. However, crushed ore represented less than 25 percent of the total ore that Arimetco had under leach. According to the Technical Report these operating results, along with the column leach test results, clearly support the need to crush the ore to obtain reasonable recoveries under heap leach conditions.
Production by Arimetco between 1991 and 1997 for the Burro and Copper Chief pits totaled approximately 16,000,000 tons of ore grading approximately 0.35 percent total copper and 12,000,000 tons of waste, primarily from the Burro pit, producing approximately 50,000,000 pounds of cathode copper. Arimetco achieved recoveries of approximately 43 percent of the total copper grade from mostly uncrushed ore placed on the heaps. Arimetco ceased mining operations in mid-1997.
The acid soluble copper assay techniques used by Arimetco for ore grade estimation are not directly comparable to the acid soluble copper assay techniques used by Cyprus. Arimetco recoveries were calculated based on total copper assays. The use of two different assay techniques by Cyprus and Arimetco could have led to inconsistencies in or the skewing of the data underlying our estimates, thereby increasing the risk of an overestimation of ore reserves at Johnson Camp Mine. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
Reserves
A summary of the Johnson Camp proven and probable reserves are presented in the table below. Further details about the reserves on the Johnson Camp property can be found in the Technical Report.
Notes:
The ore reserves were estimated in accordance with Industry Guide 7 of the Securities and Exchange Commission (sometimes referred to in this annual report as the “SEC”) and CIM Guidelines.
The actual tonnage and grade of reserves are generally expected to be within 90-95% of the estimate for proven reserves, and 70-80% for probable reserves.
Reserves are based on a copper price of $1.50/lb and on total copper assays. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates used a copper price of $1.50/lb.
Reserves are based on operating costs estimated as of the second quarter of 2007.
The internal cutoff grade used in the reserve analysis was 0.063 - 0.069 percent total copper (depending on rock type). All inferred resource blocks were treated as waste, regardless of their estimated copper grade
Other Mineralized Material
In addition to the above mentioned reserves, mineralized material is contained in the Burro and Copper Chief deposits at the Johnson Camp property and was estimated using the guidelines established in, and is
compliant with, Canadian NI 43-101 standards. In addition, there are numerous other prospects of mineralized material that remain to be explored and tested.
Drilling
Initial Drill Hole Database
The initial drill hole database for the Johnson Camp Mine consists of a total of 293 drill holes totaling 90,418 feet. Of these, 142 drill holes are contained in the Burro pit area and 151 drill holes are contained within the Copper Chief pit area. This database includes 12 confirmation diamond drill holes in the Burro and Copper Chief pit areas totaling 5,793 feet that were completed by Summo in 1998.
From October 1999 to January 2000 we conducted four exploration drilling programs using reverse circulation drilling in areas of the Johnson Camp property other than the Burro and Copper Chief deposit areas. Forty-three holes were drilled in the North area (above the Copper Chief), 17 holes were drilled in the Keystone area about one-half mile south of the Burro pit, a deep hole was drilled in the area between the Burro pit and the Copper Chief pit, and three condemnation holes were drilled in the area of our planned future leach pad and plant. Although certain drill results achieved in these four exploration drilling programs were encouraging, we found no copper mineralization that could be classified as reserves as a result of these programs.
Further Exploratory Drilling
In January 2008, we completed the first phase of preliminary exploratory drilling around the periphery of the existing boundaries of the Burro and Copper Chief pits. Twenty-five vertical reverse-circulation drill holes were completed adjacent to and to the south of the Burro Pit and in the Copper Chief deposit area on the Johnson Camp property. All of the related sample preparation and assays were performed utilizing industry standard analytical models by Arizona Assayers Inc., a laboratory independent to our company and doing business in Tucson, Arizona, as Skyline Assayers & Laboratories. A sample quality assurance/quality check program was followed, which called for the regular insertion of independent standards, blanks and duplicate samples.
The newer drill results, when combined with a previous drill hole, S-13, indicate the continuation of copper mineralization from the current south edge of the Burro Pit approximately 1,000 feet further to the south. The drill results also indicate that the copper mineralization in this area is hosted in the same rock units as at the Burro Pit. The drilling at Copper Chief increases the drill hole density within the current planned pit in the north area of the deposit and also expands copper mineralization to the northwest and southeast of the planned pit boundaries.
These drill results will be incorporated into a new block model for both the Burro and Copper Chief pits in 2009 and, depending on the economic conditions, be considered in determining if additional drilling is warranted.
Projected Copper Production from Existing Leach Pads
In 1999, we conducted a limited drilling program to evaluate actual copper content of the existing heaps. The drilling program was conducted to provide an estimate of the copper values in the heaps, but cannot be considered a definitive measure. Based on estimated heap tonnages, there are approximately 75,000,000 pounds of acid soluble copper remaining in the heaps, and, in 2008, we recovered approximately 2,900,000 pounds of copper from residual leaching.
Mining Operations
Based on the Technical Report, we expect the Johnson Camp Mine to produce approximately 25 million pounds of copper per year, for an anticipated mine life of 16 years.
Copper production is originating from both an active leach program of newly mined ore and the residual leaching of the existing leach dumps. Once sufficient new ore is placed on the existing pads, leaching for residual copper will be completed.
The operating plan for the crushed ore is as follows: The ore is crushed to a P-80 of one inch (80% is less than one inch) and sulfuric acid is added to the ore in the agglomerator, where the leaching kinetics begin. The ore is stacked on existing leach pads at a height of 20 feet and a raffinate solution is applied at varying application rates and leached for 150 days. Once the new material has been placed on the large, existing pads and leached for 150 days, a second 20-foot lift is placed on the pads. Based on our stacking plan, the existing leach pads have sufficient surface area for more than two years at which time a new leach pad and pond will be constructed.
Use of Total Copper Assays
For the reasons discussed below, our estimate of ore reserves at the Johnson Camp Mine is based on total copper assays and recoveries rather than soluble copper assays and recoveries.
Total copper values were available for both the Copper Chief and Burro deposits. However, only 39 percent of the Copper Chief assay intervals also had acid soluble copper values, and the available data on acid soluble copper was incomplete for all samples. In addition, the database of acid soluble copper values for the Burro deposit reflects two different analytical techniques: (a) a conventional acid soluble method used by Cyprus for 94 of the holes included in the drill hole database; and (b) a more aggressive methodology used by Arimetco for the other 48 drill holes included in the database for the purpose of estimating the ultimate recoveries that may be experienced in the heaps at the Johnson Camp Mine. In summary, total copper assays were the only common denominator for all drill hole assays included in the drill hole database. As a result, only a total copper grade resource model was constructed for both deposits. A reserve estimate based on total copper is an indirect measurement of the amount of copper that is metallurgically available for recovery. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have overestimated the amount of recoverable copper. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
Data Verification
Four different major categories or levels of data verification have been completed at Johnson Camp Mine by Cyprus Copper, Arimetco, Summo, and others in evaluating the geological, drill hole, and assay database. Each major category or level of data verification provides a measure of confidence in the database. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that taken in aggregate, all four categories provide corroboration and thus a higher degree of confidence in the data. The categories include: individual inter-company verifications; intra-company verifications; third party reviews; and reconciliations.
Inter-Company Verifications
Cyprus conducted drilling and assaying with both internal and external check assay procedures for data verification. Cyprus had samples assayed at more than one external lab for both total copper and acid-soluble copper. Those external labs were reputable commercial analytical labs commonly employed by the mining and exploration industry at the time. A quality assurance quality control, or QA/QC, procedure was also in place whereby Cyprus composited sample pulps and re-submitted the composite for assay as
a comparison with the average of individual assays. In addition, Cyprus did bottle roll tests on core samples to provide an additional analysis for comparison. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that, while these procedures were not done for every hole and every sample, they were done in sufficient amount to detect either errors in the analytical process or high variability in assays as a result of the geology and no significant or consistent variances were noted.
The majority of the drill holes in the resource database are core holes drilled by Cyprus. Arimetco drilled with core and by reverse circulation methods. Although Arimetco did not have the same quantity of internal or external check assays as Cyprus, Arimetco made extensive use of an independent, reputable commercial lab that is still in business today. In addition, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that the Arimetco basic data, drill logs and assays sheets were done in sufficient quality typical of industry activity at the time (1990’s).
In summary, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that both Cyprus and Arimetco conducted standard documented copper analyses in-house and with external labs, had some degree of QA/QC procedures in place and detected no significant problems with repeatability or accuracy of copper assays.
Intra-Company Verifications
The Johnson Camp Mine was operated by Cyprus and Arimetco and evaluated by Summo prior to our Company’s ownership of the Johnson Camp property. Arimetco conducted drilling and assaying that confirmed the work of Cyprus, and Summo conducted mapping, drilling and assaying that confirmed the work of Cyprus and Arimetco. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that it is a very compelling verification procedure when a second and third company does confirmation drilling and assaying, with different drilling techniques and analytical labs, and the data is correlative.
Summo drilled four holes in the Burro pit and nine in the Copper Chief pit as reverse circulation drill holes. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates examined the assay sheets and drill hole logs for a randomly selected Summo drill hole in the Burro pit and for adjacent drill holes by Cyprus and determined that the assay values in all three holes had the same general range of copper values, in the same lithological units, and while not intended as true twin-holes, each drill hole generally verifies the others.
Third Party Reviews
Various third party independent reviews have been conducted on the Johnson Camp property. For example, in 1999, Summo commissioned an engineering firm to complete a feasibility study for the Johnson Camp property. In 2000, we commissioned an engineering firm to complete a feasibility study and in 2005 we requested an updated feasibility study and technical report for the Johnson Camp property. In the opinion of Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates, these firms are known as reputable consulting/engineering companies providing audits, resource/reserve estimations and feasibility level evaluations to the mining industry. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has reviewed these reports and concluded that there are no serious data verification issues and that these reports are reasonable. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates found few database errors and omissions and acceptable limits of error.
The Summo commissioned feasibility study examined the drill hole database, geology, assays, bulk density measurements, QA/QC procedures and completed various block model-to-drill hole comparisons, and reconciliations of the model with historical productions. The Summo commissioned feasibility study verified the block model grades of their resource estimate against the Arimetco drill hole database. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has reviewed the Summo commissioned feasibility study and concluded that this work verifies that the constructed resource block model, is
representative of the data base and that the examination by the engineering company and the prior operators verifies the database.
Independent sampling of remaining core to compare with historical assays was attempted, however a large portion of the split core from Cyrus drilling is no longer available and assays for samples that have been archived for over 20 years are not a good comparison with the originally fresh core samples. However, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that of the limited number of samples collected, individual sample variances occur, but globally the grades do not differ much.
Reconciliations
As the drill hole database is the foundation of the resource and reserve estimates, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that the most significant verification of the drill hole database is the comparison of its derived block model with the production of mined material. This is accomplished by a reconciliation of the drill hole determined block model tonnage and grade against the blast-hole determined tonnage and grade. The results of reconciliations indicate the model generally replicated or slightly underestimated grade for similar tonnages.
The feasibility study commissioned by Summo compared total historical production with the block model and found both tonnage and grade to be within 0.8% of the combined Cyprus and Arimetco production. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates has concluded that this is a close correlation between the historical production and the database-derived block model.
Additional Third Party Review
A third party consulting firm observed, and Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates concurred, that the basic information upon which verification relies is available for the Johnson Camp Property, including: pre-mine and post-mine mapping; drill hole geological logs; copies of daily drill reports; drill core sampling procedures (Cyprus); original or copies of original assay certificates from commercial analytical labs and the Cyprus Johnson Camp Mine lab; documented sample preparation and analytical procedures; standard analytical procedures used by laboratories, several vintages of geological maps, rock density procedures by an independent laboratory; blast hole pattern assay maps; production records as truck counts to leach dumps; actual production records (from blast holes) versus forecast production (from the deposit model); pre-feasibility and feasibility reports; current availability of geological personnel who actually performed some of the work; and a limited library of core samples and sample pulps.
In 2006, we commissioned a third party consultant to review the applicability of the drill hole data base. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates reviewed the verification work done by the consultant and concurs with the conclusions of the consultant. In April 2006, the consultant visited the Johnson Camp Mine and prepared a spreadsheet summary listing all available drill hole data. The consultant tabulated the rotary, reverse circulation and core drilling done on the Burro and Copper Chief deposits.
In May 2006, the consultant visited our Company’s offices in Tucson, Arizona for the purpose of completing an exhaustive audit of the Copper Chief and Burro Pit deposit electronic database. The consultant verified geologic drill hole logs for the model and verified assay certificates to the electronic database. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates considers the results of the verification to be quite positive. For example, the consultant checked, and confirmed approximately 40% of the Copper Chief electronic database and found two typographical errors, and he checked approximately 20% of the Burro Pit electronic data base and found one omission.
With the exception of two shallow drilling programs by Cyprus and Arimetco all the assay certificates for all the data in the electronic database have been located. Additionally, geologic logs for over 95% of the
drilling completed in the resource areas have been located and were reviewed by Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates.
In summary, all four levels of data verification have shown only minor database errors. Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates have concluded that the minor database errors are within acceptable levels and have no reason to believe that the Johnson Camp resource database does not accurately reflect the drill logs.
Metallurgical Test Work
Metallurgical testing was completed in two programs. The first was authorized by Arimetco in May 1995 and was completed at an independent laboratory. The two ore samples that were subjected to testing were collected at the Johnson Camp Mine by Arimetco personnel and consisted of, respectively, approximately 2,000 pounds of run-of-mine schist/shale ore and 8,500 pounds of run-of-mine diabase ore. Seven column tests were used to evaluate the influence of crush size on copper extraction and each ore was tested at a nominal crush size of three inches and a nominal crush size of one inch. The results of the tests showed that when leached for 60 days, crushing the ore significantly increased the copper extraction for both sizes of crushed ore. The ore was still leaching copper when the test program was stopped at 60 days.
The second test program was authorized by Summo in August 1998 and was completed at another independent laboratory. Summo personnel collected the bulk ore samples from the Burro and Copper Chief pits. The locations of the bulk samples were based on preliminary channel sampling. The rock types chosen for sampling from the Burro pit included Lower Abrigo Formation, Bolsa Quartzite and two types of diabase ore. Only a bulk sample of oxidized diabase was obtainable to represent the Copper Chief ore, but a study of polished mineralogical sections prepared from core and/or reverse circulation drill cuttings indicated that the diabase samples taken from the Burro pit were representative of the diabase material contained in the Copper Chief deposit.
Copper mineralogy varies within the deposits. In the Burro pit, approximately 76% of the total estimated ore reserve tonnage is located above a depth of 4,560 feet in a zone dominated by the copper oxide minerals chrysocolla and malachite. Some native copper has been observed disseminated throughout this range. In addition to copper oxide mineralization, copper sulfide mineralization is evident below an elevation of 4,600 feet “in a mixed zone”. Sulfide minerals, which typically convert to oxides on exposure to oxygen, are not as amenable to heap leach copper recovery techniques as oxides. Accordingly, we believe that approximately 24% of the ore reserve in the Burro pit could exhibit reduced copper recovery due to the presence of copper sulfide mineralization.
In the Copper Chief pit, the oxide copper mineralization is similar to that of the Burro pit. The entire Copper Chief pit ore reserve is located above the 4,560 elevation in the zone dominated by the copper oxide minerals chrysocolla and malachite. We do not expect that the recovery of copper from this deposit will be materially affected by sulfide mineralization.
In summary, for the total project, approximately 85% of the ore reserves are located above the 4,560 elevation in the zone dominated by the copper oxide minerals chrysocolla and malachite. Approximately 15% of the total ore reserves could exhibit reduced copper recovery due to the presence of copper sulfide mineralization.
The bulk samples for the Summo metallurgical testing were taken from several areas of the Burro and Copper Chief pits, with all sample locations above the 4,560 foot elevation in the zone dominated by the copper oxide minerals chrysocolla and malachite. The assay results for the Abrigo formation sample taken from an elevation of 4,620 feet, however, indicated a sulfide content of 4.49%. This suggests that the leaching of copper from ore mined at this elevation may be less than optimal.
The Summo test work initially consisted of five columns, each containing 135 kilograms (approximately 298 pounds) of ore, taken from five ore samples of approximately 1,000 pounds each. Some problems were encountered with the first five columns, however, so an additional six columns were prepared and tested. All column tests were conducted at a nominal crush size of one inch based on the results from the Arimetco program, except one which was done at a nominal crush size of ½ inch.
The forecasted recoveries of copper that were reviewed by Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates in preparing their technical report are based on the column tests and are dependent on the crushing of the ore to a nominal size of one inch. The Arimetco test program indicated the importance of this parameter. Cyprus operated the Johnson Camp Mine for a run-of-mine operation whereby non-crushed ore was placed on the leach pads. Arimetco also ran the Johnson Camp Mine as a run-of-mine operation until late 1995 at which time it began crushing the ore to approximately 3 inches. Our current copper recovery estimates provide for extracting 74 to 81 percent of the total copper content of the ore mined, depending on ore type and with crushing to a nominal size of one inch.
According to Cyprus’ records, it achieved copper extraction of up to 80 percent of the acid soluble copper from uncrushed, run-of-mine material. However, the Arimetco operation, which leached new run-of-mine ore, old Cyprus run-of-mine ore, and 4,300,000 tons of ore reported to have been crushed to a nominal size of three inches, achieved copper recovery (from 1991 through 1998) of 43 percent of total copper. Arimetco’s records do not distinguish between copper extracted from old Cyprus material, new run-of-mine ore, and new crushed ore.
In preparing its technical report, Bikerman Engineering & Technology Associates reviewed the metallurgical test work and concurred with the metallurgical recovery estimates. As indicated above, however, the increase in projected copper recovery rates over the historic copper recovery rates is premised on ensuring that the ore is crushed to a nominal size of one inch prior to being placed on the leach pads. This is consistent with Arimetco’s initial results from leaching of crushed ore placed on a new liner system - namely, an increase in leach solution copper grade and an improvement in recoveries to the point where they matched the metallurgical test work performed on certain ore at a similar crush size.
In summary, our expectations with respect to copper recovery rates significantly exceed historical experience at the Johnson Camp Mine, as we plan to crush the ore to a smaller size with the view to increasing leaching efficiency. We believe that our expectations are reasonable, given our view that Cyprus and Arimetco placed uncrushed or improperly crushed ore on the leach pads, which resulted in differing recovery projections and rates. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet these expectations and projections at an operational level. (See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Company”).
We caution that copper recovery rates for ore anticipated to be mined below the 4,560 foot elevation (approximately 15% of estimated total ore reserves) may be inhibited due to the presence of copper sulfide mineralization. In addition, although the column test on the sample of Abrigo ore which contained 4.49% sulfides exhibited good copper recoveries (as shown in the table below under the subheading “Recovery Curves”), the leaching of copper from ore mined below this elevation may be less than optimal.
Royalty Obligations
Copper metal produced from Johnson Camp Mine is subject to a $0.02 per pound royalty payable to Arimetco when copper prices are in excess of $1.00 per pound. The royalty is capped at an aggregate of $1,000,000. As of December 31, 2008, our Company has paid approximately $58,000 under this commitment.
On March 31, 2009, we sold a 2.5% royalty on the mineral production sold from the existing mineral rights at Johnson Camp to International Royalty Corporation, acting through its subsidiary, IRC Nevada Inc., for net proceeds of approximately $4,950,000.
United States Mining and Environmental Laws
Arizona State Mining Laws
Mining in the State of Arizona is subject to federal, state and local laws. Three types of these laws are of particular importance to the Johnson Camp property: those affecting land ownership and mining rights; those regulating mining operations; and those dealing with the environment. The Johnson Camp current mining operations are located on private land including both patented mining claims and fee simple lands.
Our exploration activities in the United States are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under various mining and environmental laws. The nature and scope of regulation depends on a variety of factors, including the type of activities being conducted, the ownership status of land on which the operations are located, the nature of the resources affected, the states in which the operations are located, the delegation of federal air and water-pollution control and other programs to state agencies, and the structure and organization of state and local permitting agencies. We evaluate our projects in light of the cost and impact of current regulations on the proposed activity, and evaluate new laws and regulations as they develop to determine the impact on, and changes necessary to, our operations.
The Johnson Camp property also includes unpatented claims. The rights of mineral claimants on federal lands are governed by both the Mining Law of 1872 and the mining claim location requirements of Arizona law. Under federal mining law, a mining claim may be patented and conveyed from the United States into fee ownership. An unpatented mining claim is a right of possession in the claimant to develop and mine federal lands and minerals owned by the United States. Mining claims are located in accordance with both state and federal law, which require notice by monumenting and registration with the county recorder; an annual affidavit showing monies spent on labor or improvements is required to maintain the claim. Congress has placed a moratorium on the processing of mineral patent applications filed after 1994.
Generally, compliance with environmental and related mining health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Mine Safety and Health Act, requires us to obtain permits issued by regulatory agencies and to file various reports, keep records of our operations and respond to governmental inspections. Some permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions and may be subject to a public review process during which opposition to our proposed operations may be encountered.
U.S. Federal and State Environmental Law
Our past and future activities in the United States may cause us to be subject to liability under various federal and state laws for the protection of the environment.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), imposes strict, joint, and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. Liable parties include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities at which hazardous substances were disposed or released into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time of such disposal or release. This liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damages to natural resources. Arizona’s analogue to CERCLA, is the Water Quality Assurance Revolving Fund (WQARF) statute.
Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and related state laws, including the Arizona Hazardous Waste Management Act (HWMA), the generation, transport, treatment, storage, and disposal
of hazardous or solid wastes associated with certain mining-related activities are highly regulated. Administration of the federal RCRA programs was delegated to Arizona and is handled through the HWMA. RCRA and HWMA costs may also include corrective action or clean-up costs. Failure to comply can create a fineable condition.
Mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, such as crushers and storage facilities, and from mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment. All of these sources are subject to review, monitoring, permitting, and/or control requirements under the federal Clean Air Act and related state air quality laws. The substantive requirements of the Clean Air Act, including permitting and enforcement of standards are administered by Arizona and certain counties depending upon the size and nature of sources of air emissions. Air quality permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the permitting conditions and regulated emissions. In August 2008, we received an air quality permit from ADEQ which permitted us to resume construction at the Johnson Camp Mine and in January 2009 we commenced mining and crushing new ore.
Under the federal Clean Water Act and delegated state water-quality programs, point-source discharges into “Waters of the United States” are regulated by the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) program. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act regulates the discharge of dredge and fill materials into “Waters of the United States,” including wetlands. Storm water discharges also are regulated and permitted under the storm water program. All of those programs impose permitting and other requirements on our operations. Arizona has been delegated authority under the federal NPDES permitting program. We maintain an active Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan onsite and are in the process of having it renewed. In addition, certain proposed activities (increased heap leach pad capacity, new ponds and waste dump facilities) indicated potential assessment for applicability of a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers section 404 Dredge & Fill Permit. We are evaluating this circumstance.
We have also adopted a Spill Prevention Control and Counter Measures Plan.
The federal Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, that implements the Community-Right-To-Know portions of CERCLA, from time-to-time may require us to file annual toxic chemical release forms. This is dependent on the amount and character of the materials we will have and use at the facility.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires an assessment of the environmental impacts of “major” federal actions. The “federal action” requirement can be satisfied if the project involves federal land or if the federal government provides financing or permitting approvals. NEPA does not establish any substantive standards. It merely requires the analysis of any potential impact. The scope of the assessment process depends on the size of the project. An Environmental Assessment (EA) may be adequate for smaller projects which are found to have no significant impacts. An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which is much more detailed and broader in scope than an EA, is required for larger projects with significant impacts. NEPA compliance requirements for any of our proposed projects, such as federal approval of a mine plan involving more than five acres per year on unpatented mining claims, could result in additional costs or delays. There is no current Arizona law or state procedure comparable to the federal NEPA and the EA/EIS process. Although all current mine facilities on the Johnson Camp property are situated on private land, future exploration on the Johnson Camp property and our other properties may involve unpatented mining claims.
The Endangered Species Act (ESA) is administered by the U.S. Department of Interior’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The purpose of the ESA is to conserve and recover listed endangered and threatened species of flora and fauna and their habitat. Under the ESA, “endangered” means that a species is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range. “Threatened” means that a species is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future. Under the ESA, it is unlawful to “take” a listed species, which can include harassing or harming members of such species or significantly
modifying their habitat. Arizona has similar laws protecting wildlife and native plants. We conduct wildlife and plant inventories as required as part of the environmental assessment process prior to initiating exploration projects.
Under Arizona’s Aquifer Protection Permit Program facilities that “discharge”, including certain mining operations, are required to obtain an Aquifer Protection Permit (“APP”). An APP application is currently pending review at the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality for the Johnson Camp Mine.
The Johnson Camp property has undergone mining activities for a period of over 125 years. We acquired the Johnson Camp property from Arimetco subject to a number of conditions that constituted aquifer protection law violations and compliance measures. Accordingly, in connection with the acquisition, Consent Order P-139-99 was entered with the ADEQ in June 1999. We agreed to upgrade and improve certain of the facilities and complete certain remediation activities at the Johnson Camp property by September 2000. On January 3, 2001, Consent Order P-401-01 was entered with the ADEQ which replaced Consent Order P-139-99. Consent Order P-401-01 allowed the Johnson Camp Mine to continue to operate and to make improvements to the facility with the view to bringing it into compliance with current Arizona statutes.
On September 7, 2002, the ADEQ issued Compliance Order APP-1 14-02. That order required the following:
the Johnson Camp Mine be brought into compliance with Arizona’s aquifer protection laws;
a Stipulated Judgment and Stipulated Judgment Entry Agreement be entered with the ADEQ which provided for civil penalties in the amount of $4,325,000 as a consequence of violation of Consent Order #P401-1 and the aquifer protection laws, subject to the agreement by the ADEQ that it would not file for entry of the judgment unless Compliance Order APP-1 14- 02 was violated and the violation was not cured on a timely basis, or unless we became the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency or receivership proceeding prior to achieving compliance with Compliance Order APP-1 14-02; and
an Escrow Agreement be entered with the ADEQ requiring a $1,500,000 deposit by our Company into an escrow account to be used solely to pay for the direct costs of bringing the Johnson Camp Mine into compliance with Compliance Order APP-1 14-02 and the aquifer protection laws.
In response to Compliance Order APP-1 14-02, we applied the $1,500,000 in escrowed funds to environmental remediation activities at the Johnson Camp Mine and to the preparation and filing of an Aquifer Protection Permit application with the ADEQ in June 2003.
The ADEQ responded to the aquifer protection permit application by letter dated September 2, 2003 which identified a comprehensive list of specific deficiencies. A partial response was submitted on September 28, 2006, however certain financial assurances required by the ADEQ could not be provided at that time. In reply, the ADEQ issued an Administrative Review Notice dated May 18, 2007 which included, among other things, lack of the required financial assurances as a deficiency. We submitted a response on July 2, 2007, but were unable to provide certain financial assurances in a form acceptable to the ADEQ. On July 6, 2007, a notice of violation was issued citing the failure to provide the required financial assurances. On August 1, 2007, the outstanding financial assurances were submitted to the ADEQ, and, on August 10, 2007, a formal response to the notice of violation including documentation evidencing submission of financial assurances was filed.
On August 15, 2007, the ADEQ declared that all components necessary for the Aquifer Protection Permit application were received by the ADEQ, at which time the ADEQ commenced its substantive technical
review process. Since then, the ADEQ has made subsequent requests for information and we have made additional submissions in response. The most recent request for information is dated March 5, 2009 requesting a response within 45 days. We are currently evaluating the request.
During this permitting process we are allowed to produce copper from the Johnson Camp Mine while we continue to comply with the mandates of Compliance Order APP-1 14-02.
In addition, the ADEQ issued a Notice of Violation dated June 26, 2008 concerning alleged violations of the APP Program and indicating that certain violations constituted non-compliance with the Compliance Order APP-1 14-02. We timely responded to the Notice of Violation by submittal dated August 7, 2008, indicating that no such violations occurred. In addition, we performed certain remedial type actions with respect to various areas referenced in the ADEQ’s Notice of Violation. The ADEQ responded, indicating that it was not completely satisfied with our Company’s position and response. The parties conferred and we submitted additional information dated January 15, 2009 in accordance with the parties’ discussions. The ADEQ has not responded in writing to the January 15, 2009 submittal.
We are committed to materially complying with all requirements under applicable environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Our policy is to conduct our business in a manner that safeguards public health and mitigates the environmental effects of our business activities. To comply with these laws and regulations, we have made, and in the future may be required to make, capital and operating expenditures.
U.S. Federal and State Reclamation Requirements
We are subject to mine plan and land reclamation requirements under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and/or the Arizona Mined Land Reclamation provisions, which are implemented through permits and operations and reclamation plans that apply to exploration and mining activities. These requirements mandate reclamation of disturbed areas and require the posting of bonds or other financial assurance in an amount sufficient to satisfy expected reclamation costs. If reclamation obligations are not met, the designated agency could draw on these bonds and letters of credit to fund expenditures for reclamation requirements.
Reclamation requirements generally include stabilizing, contouring, and re-vegetating disturbed lands, controlling drainage from portals and waste rock dumps, removing roads and structures, neutralizing or removing process solutions, monitoring groundwater at the mining site, and maintaining visual aesthetics. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with and are committed to maintaining all of our financial assurance and reclamation obligations pursuant to our permits and applicable laws.
Our Reclamation and Closure Plan
The previous owner of the Johnson Camp property, Arimetco Inc., had no reclamation or closure plans, nor is there a bond outstanding to perform reclamation and closure activities. We submitted our reclamation and mine closure plan to the Arizona State Mine Inspectors Office in July 2007 which plan contemplates reclaiming all mining disturbances occurring after 1987 to a level that will support the designated post-mining land use. Open pit mines are excluded from reclamation requirements; however, waste dumps, tailing piles, leach facilities, process water ponds, site buildings and roadways will require closure and reclamation.
Components of our reclamation plan and closure plan include four separate post mining land use objectives based on public safety, existing and historic land uses, climate, soil quantity and quality, and economic feasibility. These include: rangeland; future mineral exploration and development; storm water
management and processing waste rock materials for sale as landscape material, riprap and railroad ballast to contractors and the public.
Our closure plan includes measures to be taken to prevent discharges of pollutants from the facility after operations cease, the methods that we will use to secure the facility, and any other measures needed to protect groundwater resources, including post-closure monitoring and maintenance as needed. Mine closure costs from existing and future impacts of the contemplated operations have been estimated to total $1,850,000. The financial projection assumes a salvage value of the mining, process and service equipment of $2,512,000, a value in excess of the estimated mine closure cost.
Status of Permits - Summary
The development, operation, closure and reclamation of mining projects in the United States requires numerous notifications, permits, authorizations and public agency decisions. This section does not attempt to exhaustively identify all of the permits and authorizations that need to be obtained, but instead focuses on those that are considered to be the main permits that are on the critical path for project startup. These are summarized in the table below:
Permit
Status
Compliance Order
Currently allows copper production from site. Compliance with this order requires material compliance with its contents and the issuance of the Aquifer Protection Permit.
Air Quality Permit
In August 2008, an air quality permit was issued from the ADEQ which permitted construction and further mining and crushing operations at the Johnson Camp Mine.
Hazardous Material Transport and Storage
None Required. Material Safety Data Sheets are maintained on property.
Explosives Storage and Use
Mining Contractor is responsible for use and storage of explosives and is permitted accordingly.
Weights and Measures
Site is licensed by the Arizona Department of Weights and Measures for the weighing of cathode copper for shipment and sale.
Aquifer Protection Permit (APP)
Application is currently under technical review by ADEQ.
Storm Water National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System
Permit number AZR05B377 issued on March 7, 2001. A Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan has been fully developed and was revised and updated in December 2008.
Water Supply
4 existing wells are permitted: Moore Mine (#36-66376), Republic Mine (#36-66377), Black Prince Mine (#36-66378) and Section 19 Well (#36-66379). Nord is currently working with its engineering consultant and ADEQ for approval of an on-site drinking water system.
Reclamation and Mine Closure Plan Reclamation and Mine Closure Plan with adequate financial assurances was submitted to the Arizona State Mine Inspectors Office in July 2007. The Plan is under review.
Landscape and Aggregate Rock Operation
The Johnson Camp property includes decorative and structural stone operations, which produce landscape and aggregate rock from the overburden piles at the Johnson Camp Mine. Until January 31, 2009, we leased the landscape rock operation to JC Rock, LLC and the aggregate rock operation to Texas Canyon Rock & Sand Inc. in exchange for sliding scale royalties. Effective February 1, 2009, we commenced managing the landscape rock operation although the landscape rock is processed by a third party; the aggregate rock operation continues to be leased to Texas Canyon Rock & Sand.
The rock currently being sold for landscaping purposes is bolsa quartzite, and is known in the market as Coronado Brown. We caused Cochise Aggregates and Materials, Inc. to certify “Coronado Brown Landscape Rock” as a trade name in the State of Arizona on July 15, 2005. We do not believe that the landscape and aggregate rock operations will be material to our financial results of operation.
OTHER PROPERTIES
In addition to the Johnson Camp property, we have an option to acquire an interest in the Texas Arizona claim, an exploration stage project that we do not consider to be material to our overall operations at this time. As described in more detail below, we also held options to acquire interests in the Coyote Springs and Mimbres properties. We elected to allow our option on the Coyote Springs property to expire unexercised in accordance with its terms in January 2009, and to terminate our rights under the Mimbres option in January 2008.
Texas Arizona Mines Project
In July 2004, we entered into an option agreement with an individual named Shirley Bailey to acquire a 100% interest in four unpatented mining claims for a polymetallic exploration target in Cochise County, Arizona, known as the Texas Arizona Mine. We paid $980 to acquire the option in 2004 and an additional $10,000 in 2008 to exercise the option. The claims are located in the Johnson Mining District approximately three miles from the Johnson Camp Mine.
Coyote Springs
In January 2004, our Company acquired an exclusive option from Thornwell Rogers, South Branch Resources, LLC, and MRPGEO, LLC (“Coyote Option Agreement”) to purchase the leasehold rights and mining claims located in the Safford mining district in Graham County, Arizona, commonly known as “Coyote Springs”, consisting of two State of Arizona mineral exploration leases and 52 unpatented mining claims. The Coyote Springs property is a porphyry copper-gold exploration target with exposed, surface copper oxides and considerable potential for deeper copper sulfides.
The Coyote Springs option gave us the right to acquire the Coyote Springs project in exchange for (i) the issuance of certain shares of our Company’s common stock, as described below, to Thornwell Rogers, South Branch Resources, LLC, and MRPGEO, LLC in their respective capacities as the Coyote Springs owners; (ii) at the election of the Coyote Springs owners, the issuance of either 149,994 shares of common stock or $165,000 cash in the aggregate, or a combination of shares and cash, to be paid in three annual installments of $50,010, $54,990 and $60,000 beginning in January 2006; (iii) the issuance of 99,999 stock options in each of January 2004 and 2006, and the issuance of 106,674 stock options in 2008; and (iv) in January 2009, at the election of the Coyote Springs owners, payment of $1,600,005 cash or the equivalent value in shares of common stock (based on market price at the time). The stock options issued prior to 2008 have an exercise price 15% below the value of our Company’s common stock on the date of grant and are to expire 36 months following their respective grant dates. In order to comply with
TSX rules, the number of stock options granted subsequent to January 2008 was grossed up in lieu of the 15% discount.
Pursuant to an amended agreement dated January 27, 2006, the Coyote Springs owners agreed to accept an aggregate of $21,000 in cash and an aggregate of 83,844 shares of our common stock valued at $29,010, in full satisfaction of the $50,010 payment due in 2006. We also issued 99,999 stock options to the Coyote Springs owners with an effective grant date of January 28, 2006 and an exercise price of $0.47 per share. In January 2007, we paid an additional $18,330 and issued 33,332 shares of our common stock valued at $36,665 in conjunction with the Coyote Springs option. In January 2008, we paid an additional $60,000 in conjunction with the Coyote Spring Option and issued 106,674 stock options to the Coyote Springs owners. Each stock option entitles the holder to purchase one share of common stock in the capital of our Company at an exercise price of $1.00 per share until 5:00 pm (Tucson time) on January 24, 2011.
In December 2008, we elected to allow our option to acquire an interest in the Coyote Springs property to expire unexercised in accordance with its terms in January 2009. As of December 31, 2008, the total consideration paid under the Coyote Springs option was valued at $400,836, including the value of all stock options and shares of common stock issued. We have recorded a charge to other expense in the amount of $400,836 to reflect the write off of our investment in this property.
Mimbres
In June 2004, our Company acquired an exclusive option from Thornwell Rogers, South Branch Resources, LLC and MRPGEO, LLC to purchase the leasehold rights and mining claims for a porphyry copper exploration target commonly known as the Mimbres property, located near Silver City, New Mexico. The Mimbres property consists of 4.6 square miles of New Mexico state mineral leases and 45 unpatented mining.
In January 2008, we elected to terminate the option agreement. Consequently, we have recorded a charge to other expenses in the amount of $6,002 to reflect the write off of our investment in this property.
ITEM 3.