ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The Company currently occupies 124 facilities located in 118 cities. The corporate offices provide centrally located administrative functions including accounting, finance, marketing and data processing. The Company operates processing plants that house administrative, sales and service personnel and the necessary equipment involved in the cleaning of uniforms and bulk items. Branch operations provide administrative, sales and service functions. Cintas operates three distribution facilities and has four manufacturing plants, two of which produce uniform trousers and two producing uniform shirts. The Company considers the facilities it operates to be adequate for their intended use. The Company owns or leases 2,765 vehicles.
The following chart provides additional information concerning Cintas' facilities:
CINTAS CORPORATION
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves (In Thousands)
(A) Uncollectible Accounts Charged-off, Net of Recoveries.
(B) Elimination of Fully Amortized Amounts.
Note: Reported earnings per share for each year was based upon weighted average shares outstanding since neither the primary nor fully diluted amounts of per share earnings resulted in a reduction of 3% or more.
Financial Highlights Years Ended May 31 (In thousands except per share data)
Our successful track record, corporate culture and reputation enable us to attract a special group of talented people who are united in a common cause and enjoy what they do. Recently, three of our key partners were promoted. Jim Critchfield, with eighteen years at Cintas, has been promoted to Vice President - North Central Region, after serving as a General Manager of our Schaumburg, Illinois, operation. Larry Harmon, a thirteen-year veteran, has been promoted to Vice President - Human Resources after serving as Vice President - Western Region. Jim Krupansky, having served Cintas for fifteen years in various positions, has been promoted to Vice President - Western Region. His most recent position was General Manager of our Detroit, Michigan, operation.
These seasoned managers have proven track records in sales, service and operations. Their skills are many - but they are masters at building teams and motivating our partners to be the best they can be. They are highly qualified and well prepared for their new positions.
With the highest customer satisfaction in the industry, Cintas is poised for the future. We are the largest, fastest growing and most profitable public company in the business. We have excellent financial resources, we have modern, productive plants, and we believe we can continue our successful track record because of our great ownership-driven team. We thank you for your continued support and interest.
Sincerely yours,
Richard T. Farmer Chairman of the Board
Robert J. Kohlhepp President and Chief Executive Officer
FISCAL 1996 IN REVIEW
Leadership? Cintas is the answer.
The dictionary defines a leader as one who shows the way, or directs the course, by going before another. Cintas is the leader in the uniform rental industry.
We are the largest public company in our industry. We have the highest long-term growth rates in sales and profits. We have a 17% share of the $4.3 billion market and 5% share of a $13.5 billion potential market. In the last five years, we expanded our service to more than 70 new cities; 13 in the year that just ended. We have an outstanding management team, most of whom have been with our Company for many years. We are ownership-driven. The majority of our management team's personal net worth is invested in Cintas. We do extensive market research to identify new and better ways to satisfy our customers. We are the innovator of new products and services for our customers. We have an excellent reputation that attracts new partners and new customers.
Productivity? Cintas is the answer.
We continue to be the leader in the industry in building modern and productive facilities. Cintas has a research and development team that works closely with our operations and our suppliers to determine the most cost effective and efficient processes for every facility we build or renovate. In fiscal 1996 alone we spent approximately $5 million in research and development, testing new technology and processes to improve our productivity.
Expanding Capacity? Cintas is the answer.
We constantly expand capacity to keep pace with our growth. Fiscal 1996 was no exception. We completed two new plants - one in Las Vegas, Nevada, and the other in Denver, Colorado - and renovated or expanded three additional plants. Currently, new plants are under construction in Indianapolis, Indiana; Austin, Texas; Ontario, California; and Boston, Massachusetts. We also expanded our Mason, Ohio, Distribution Center in order to increase capacity and more effectively service the Company's continued growth in the Midwest, on the East Coast, and in Canada. A third distribution center, in Montgomery, Alabama, was opened to service operations in the South, Southeast, and Southwest regions of the United States.
Acquisitions? Cintas is the answer.
There are currently more than 700 mostly family-owned companies serving the uniform rental market in the United States. The industry has been in a consolidation phase for many years. Since going public in 1983, Cintas has made more than 80 acquisitions, which account for approximately a third of our total growth. Acquisitions will continue to play a major role in the growth of our Company going forward.
Financial Resources? Cintas is the answer.
The Company has strong financial resources to continue our track record into the future. Total cash and marketable securities of $82.5 million increased 81% from $45.5 million last year. Operating cash flow per share was $2.39 for fiscal 1996, a 49% increase over last year. Our current ratio improved from 2.54:1 to 2.90:1. Our debt to total capital stands at 22.5%, which provides significant additional borrowing capacity for acquisitions and internal growth. We are well positioned to take advantage of the many opportunities we have for continued outstanding growth.
Dedicated, Hardworking Team? Cintas is the answer.
At Cintas, we consider each other partners and we call each other "partner". We applaud all of our partners and continue to dedicate resources to education in all areas of our Company. Education is an everyday occurrence at Cintas. In fiscal 1996, we invested approximately 425,000 hours in formalized classroom training - imparting more knowledge in sales skills, world-class service, human relations, motivation skills, productivity and quality.
Leading the Way to World-Class Service? Cintas is the answer.
Our goal of achieving world-class service is clearly the most important objective we have as a Company. Our customers expect good service, but "good" is never good enough. We must provide exceptional service, and we do. Take Avis for example: since 1983, we have been providing industrial uniforms to their employees who work "behind the scenes," cleaning and preparing the vehicles for their customers. Our performance won the coveted "Avis Total Quality Award," given to top suppliers. Avis recently chose Cintas to provide the tailored uniform service to the rest of their employees - those who have a higher level of customer contact, such as their rental sales agents and managers. Quality pays off and our insistence on excellence will fuel our future growth. As a result, our partners can count on rewarding careers and our shareholders will have an attractive return.
ELEVEN YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY Years Ended May 31 (In thousands except per share data)
(a) Includes earnings of $.06 per share due to the adoption of SFAS No. 96. Note: Results prior to October 1, 1991, have been restated to include Rental Uniform Service of Greenville, S.C., Inc.
Cintas Corporation
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Years Ended May 31 (In thousands except per share data)
See accompanying notes.
Cintas Corporation
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of May 31 (In thousands except share data)
See accompanying notes.
Cintas Corporation
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
(In thousands)
See accompanying notes.
Cintas Corporation
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years Ended May 31 (In thousands)
See accompanying notes.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Amounts in thousands except per share and share data)
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Business description. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs which it rents or sells to customers throughout the United States and Canada. The Company provides this highly specialized service to businesses of all types--from small service companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. Principles of consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Cintas Corporation and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Cash flows. For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less, at date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. Substantially all inventories represent finished goods. Uniforms and other rental items in service. These items are valued at cost less amortization, calculated using the straight-line method generally over periods of eight to eighteen months. Depreciation. The Company calculates depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Other assets. Other assets consist primarily of service contracts and non-compete or consulting agreements obtained through the acquisition of businesses, which are amortized by use of the straight-line method over the estimated lives of the agreements which are generally five to ten years, and goodwill, which is amortized using the straight-line method over forty years. Stock options. The Company grants stock options to certain employees at the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of the grant. The stock option grants are accounted for in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly no compensation expense is recorded for the stock option grants. Earnings per share. Earnings per share is calculated on the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year, including the dilutive effect, if any, of assumed conversion of common stock equivalents.
2. MARKETABLE SECURITIES
All marketable equity securities and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale. The amortized cost of debt securities in this category is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is included in investment income. Realized gains and losses and declines in value determined to be other than temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in investment income. The cost of the securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are included in investment income.
The following is a summary of marketable securities at May 31, 1996 and 1995:
The gross realized gains on sales of available-for-sale securities totaled $77, $154 and $42 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, and the gross realized losses totaled $127, $203 and $78, respectively. Net unrealized losses are $98 and $314 at May 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Marketable securities are carried at cost which approximates market.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of debt and marketable equity securities at May 31, 1996, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay the obligations without prepayment penalties.
Debt in the amount of $46,712 is secured by assets with a carrying value of $43,475 at May 31, 1996, and letters of credit in the amount of $11,116 . Maturities of long-term debt during the five years ending May 31, 2001, are: $6,592, $6,733, $33,821, $33,705 and $5,379, respectively. At May 31, 1996, the fair value of the Company's outstanding debt approximates its carrying value.
Interest expense is net of capitalization of $435, $638 and $449 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Interest paid, net of the amount capitalized, was $9,532, $7,453 and $7,008 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
6. LEASES
The Company conducts certain operations from leased facilities and leases certain equipment. Most leases contain renewal options for periods from one to ten years. The lease agreements provide for increases in rentals if the options are exercised, based on increases in certain price level factors or prearranged increases. The minimum rental payments for the five years ending May 31, 2001, are: $3,442, $3,106, $2,666, $2,243 and $1,992, respectively. Rent expense under operating leases during the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, was approximately $5,572, $5,369 and $4,258, respectively.
The components of deferred income taxes included on the balance sheets at May 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994, are as follows:
Income taxes paid were $40,817, $35,362 and $29,741 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
8. ACQUISITIONS
Information relating to the acquisitions of uniform rental businesses which were accounted for as purchases is as follows:
On February 13, 1995, the Company acquired 80% of the outstanding stock of Cadet Uniform Services, Ltd., a uniform rental company in Toronto, Ontario, for approximately $41 million which was financed through borrowings. The purchase increased the Company's ownership from 20% to 100%.
In addition to the acquisitions reflected in the table, the Company acquired one business in fiscal 1995 by reissuing 219,765 treasury shares and accounted for the acquisition as a purchase.
The results of operations from the acquired businesses are included in the consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition. The unaudited pro forma results of operations for the years ended May 31, 1996 and 1995, assuming the acquisitions had occurred on June 1 of each respective year, would be approximately as follows:
The unaudited pro forma results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the actual operating results that would have occurred had the acquisitions been consummated on June 1 of each respective fiscal year or of future operating results of the combined companies.
9. CINTAS PARTNERS' PLAN
The Cintas Partners' Plan (the Plan) is a non-contributory profit sharing plan and ESOP for the benefit of Company employees who have completed one year of service. The Plan also includes a 401(k) savings feature covering substantially all employees. The amount of contributions to the profit sharing plan and ESOP and the matching contribution to the 401(k) are at the discretion of the Company. Total contributions, including the Company's matching contributions, were $6,188, $4,956 and $4,300 for the years ended May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
10. STOCK OPTIONS
Under a stock option plan adopted by the Company in fiscal 1993, the Company may grant officers and key employees incentive stock options and/or non-qualified stock options to purchase an aggregate of 2,300,000 shares of the Company's common stock. Options are generally granted at the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant and generally become exercisable at the rate of 20% per year commencing five years after grant, so long as the holder remains an employee of the Company.
The information presented in the table relates to incentive stock options granted and outstanding under either the plan adopted in fiscal 1993 or under a similar plan which expired in June 1993.
In addition to the outstanding incentive stock options reflected in the table, there were 210,970, 205,170 and 188,750 outstanding non-qualified stock options at May 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. During fiscal 1996, 88,500 non-qualified stock options were granted and 82,700 were exercised. At May 31, 1996, the exercise prices of these outstanding options ranged from $7.96 to $43.25 per share, and 74,300 of these outstanding options were exercisable.
At May 31, 1996, 3,792,000 shares of common stock are reserved for future issuance.
11. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
The following is a summary of the results of operations for each of the quarters within the years ended May 31, 1996 and 1995:
REPORT OF AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors is composed of three independent directors. The Committee, which held two audit meetings during fiscal 1996, oversees the Company's financial reporting process on behalf of the Board of Directors.
In fulfilling its responsibility, the Committee recommended to the Board of Directors the selection of the Company's independent auditors. The Committee discussed with the independent auditors the overall scope and specific plan for their audits. The Committee also discussed the Company's consolidated financial statements and the adequacy of the Company's system of internal control.
The Committee meets with the Company's independent auditors, without management present, to discuss the results of their audits, their evaluation of the system of internal control and the overall quality of the Company's financial reporting. The meetings also are designed to facilitate any private communications with the Committee desired by the independent auditors.
Roger L. Howe, Chairman Audit Committee July 8, 1996
REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
The Board of Directors Cintas Corporation
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cintas Corporation as of May 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 1996. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Cintas Corporation at May 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Cincinnati, Ohio Ernst & Young LLP July 8, 1996
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FISCAL 1996 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1995
Fiscal 1996 marked another year of uninterrupted growth for the Company. Total revenues were $730 million, an increase of 19% over fiscal 1995. Net income of $75 million and earnings per share of $1.60 represented increases of 20% and 19%, respectively, over the prior fiscal year. Net rental revenues increased 19%; revenues in existing rental operations increased 15%, while acquisitions accounted for the remaining growth. Net sales revenues increased 17%. Return on equity of 19% was comparable with the prior year.
Income before taxes increased 21% to $122 million. Net interest expense increased $1 million primarily due to an increase in the amount of long-term debt associated with the acquisition of Cadet Uniform Services, Ltd. in fiscal 1995. The Company's effective tax rate was 38% in both 1996 and 1995.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased by $37 million, primarily due to strong cash flow from operations. The cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be used to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures. Marketable securities consist primarily of municipal bonds and federal government securities.
Inventories decreased $2 million as the Company focused on improving the efficiency of its distribution operations while still maintaining service levels for anticipated growth.
Net property, plant and equipment increased by $25 million. In fiscal 1996, the Company constructed two new uniform rental facilities to accommodate growth in rental operations.
FISCAL 1995 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1994
During fiscal 1995, total revenues were $615 million, net income was $63 million and earnings per share was $1.34, increasing 18%, 20% and 20%, respectively. Net rental revenues increased 17%. Revenues in existing rental operations increased 14%, while acquisitions accounted for the remaining growth. Net sales revenues increased 20% due to new business and expansion of business within existing national accounts. Return on equity of 19% was comparable with the prior year.
Income before taxes increased 18% to $101 million. The Company's effective tax rate decreased from 39% to 38%. In fiscal 1994, the Company recorded a one-time charge for the retroactive impact (to January 1, 1993) of an increase in corporate marginal tax rates due to the enactment of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993.
In fiscal 1995, the Company acquired 80% of the outstanding stock of Cadet Uniform Services, Ltd., for approximately $41 million which was financed through borrowings. The purchase increased the Company's ownership from 20% to 100%.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased by $15 million due to capital expenditures and acquisitions, which was partially offset by strong cash flow from operations. The cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be used to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures. Inventories increased $8 million as the Company added products for the catalog program and proprietary products in the rental line.
Net property, plant and equipment increased by $35 million. In fiscal 1995, the Company constructed five new uniform rental facilities to accommodate growth in rental operations. Other assets increased by $39 million, reflecting goodwill, service contracts, and non-compete and consulting agreements obtained through the acquisition of uniform businesses.
FINANCIAL CONDITION
At May 31, 1996, the Company had $83 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. The Company's investment policy pertaining to marketable securities is conservative. Preservation of principal while earning an attractive yield are the criteria used in making investments. Working capital increased $49 million to $195 million due primarily to the increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Capital expenditures for fiscal 1996 totaled $57 million. The Company continues to reinvest profits into land, buildings and equipment in order to expand capacity for future growth. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures for fiscal 1997 will approximate $62 million.
The Company's percentage of debt to total capitalization was 22% at May 31, 1996, versus 26% at May 31, 1995.
During the year, the Company paid dividends of $12 million or $0.25 per share. This dividend is an increase of 25% over that paid in fiscal 1995.
INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES
Management believes inflation has not had a material impact on the Company's financial condition or a negative effect on operations.
IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," in March 1995. The statement established standards for recording impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations, as well as long-lived assets that are expected to be disposed. The Company will adopt Statement No. 121 in the first quarter of fiscal 1997 and does not believe the effect of adoption will be material.
Shareholder Information
EXHIBIT 21
SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
STATE/PROVINCE OF NAME INCORPORATION
Cintas Corporation - East Coast Massachusetts
Cintas Corporation - Ohio Ohio
Cintas Corporation No. 1 Ohio
Cintas Corp. No. 5 Michigan
Cintas Corp. No. 13 Pennsylvania
Cintas Corporation No. 41 Maryland
Cintas Sales Corporation Ohio
Cintas Corp. No. 45 North Carolina
Corporate Business Services, Inc. Illinois
Cintas - R.U.S., Inc. South Carolina
Cintas Cleaning Services, Inc. Ohio
Cintas Executive Services, Inc. Nevada
Cadet Uniform Services Limited Ontario, Canada
Cintas Investment Corp. Ontario, Canada
910946 Ontario, Inc. Ontario, Canada
Exhibit 23
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Cintas Corporation of our report dated July 8, 1996, included in the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders of Cintas Corporation.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Cintas Corporation listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement Number 33-56623 on Form S-8 pertaining to the Partners' Plan, the Registration Statement Number 33-23228 on Form S-8 pertaining to the Incentive Stock Option Plan and Registration Statement Number 33-71124 on Form S-8 pertaining to the 1990 Directors Plan and 1992 Stock Option Plan, of our report dated July 8, 1996, with respect to the financial statements and schedule of Cintas Corporation incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 1996.
Ernst & Young LLP
Cincinnati, Ohio August 20, 1996