Item 2. PROPERTIES ----------
The Company has acquired and maintained its mining claims in a manner that is consistent with common industry practice and believes that title to all its material properties and mineral interests is satisfactory.
UNITED STATES
All of the Company's properties in the United States consist of unpatented and patented mining claims, and are owned by the Company or its subsidiaries or leased from third parties.
Unpatented mining claims are located upon public land pursuant to procedures established by the General Mining Law of 1872 and related laws of the various states. Requirements for the location of a valid mining claim on public land depend on the type of claim being located and the relevant state law, but generally include discovery of valuable minerals, erecting a monument and posting on it a location notice, marking the boundaries of the claim, and filing a certificate of location with the county in which the claim is located and with the BLM. If the statutes and regulations for the location of a mining claim are complied with, the locator obtains a valid possessory right to the claim and the right to mine, remove and sell the contained minerals.
To maintain an otherwise valid claim, a claimant must also annually perform a specified amount of work, or pay rental fees directly to the BLM, and make certain additional filings with the county and the BLM. Failure to perform such work or make the required filings in a timely manner may render the mining claim void or voidable.
Because mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, they possess some unique vulnerabilities not associated with other types of property interests. It is impossible to ascertain the validity of unpatented mining claims from public real estate records alone, and therefore, it can be difficult or impossible to confirm that all of the requisite steps have been followed for location and maintenance of a claim. If the validity of an unpatented mining claim is challenged by the federal government or by claimants of conflicting rights to the ground, the claimant has the burden of proving the present economic feasibility of mining minerals located within the claim as well as the steps taken to perfect the claim's location. Thus, it is conceivable that during times of falling metals prices, claims which were valid when located could become invalid if challenged.
The patent procedure permits claimants to purchase from the federal government fee title to claims upon demonstrating that the mineral deposit on the claims can be mined at a profit and by satisfying other procedural requirements. Patented mining claims are similar to other fee real property interests. Significant portions of the Company's United States properties consist of patented mining claims on which the Company's relevant local counsels have given their opinion that the Company, or the entity through which the Company holds rights to mine the property, has good title.
CHILE
In Chile the State is the owner of all mineral and fossil substances regardless of the surface ownership, but mining concessions may be obtained for the purpose of exploring or exploiting the underlying property in accordance with a jurisdictional process regulated by the Mining Code.
The acquisition of title to new exploration mining concessions is a detailed jurisdictional process which can be divided into three stages:
(1) The recording of the application for an exploration mining concession ("Pedimento") covering the desired ground before the Court and Mining Register of the relevant county ("Comuna") where the ground is located and its publication in the official Gazette. All persons (except certain government officials, some of their relatives and other similar persons) may prospect on any land not cultivated or enclosed.
(2) The request for a Court judgment formally constituting and granting the concession ("Sentencia") during which process a judge checks the procedure and the payment of certain fees, and representatives of the National Geological and Mining Service check the technical aspects of the title to the ground.
(3) The issuance by the court of the constituting "Sentencia" whereby a two- year exploration mining concession is granted from the date of the "Sentencia". This "Sentencia" then has to be published in extract in the official Gazette and recorded in the corresponding Mining Register within a certain period of time.
Prior to its expiration the owner of an exploration mining concession may conduct all kinds of exploration activities, may apply for an exploitation mining concession ("Pertenencia") to the corresponding judge (which also requires
a jurisdictional process), and may request easements or facilities from neighbour concessions or from surface land owners, as necessary. Prior to expiration of exploration mining concessions, a single extension for a further two years can be applied for, however, in order to obtain such extension, the area of the concession must be reduced by 50%. An alternative to extension is to obtain one or more exploitation mining concessions (or Pertenencia) over the same ground.
In order to obtain an exploitation mining concession (which permits commencement of production from a mineral property) it is necessary to go through a process which is similar in its structure to that for obtaining an exploration mining concession but requires a longer time period. An application ("Manifestacion") for the concession must initially be recorded and, following certain additional procedures, a request for a formative survey of the concession ("Mensura") is made. Following the survey (location on the ground of the boundaries of the concession) and certain additional procedures, including opportunities for third parties to put forward opposition to the survey of the concession, a formative judgment ("Sentencia") is issued and the exploitation mining concession is formally granted. All exploitation mining concessions are granted for an indefinite period.
"Pedimento", as well as exploration mining concessions and exploitation mining concessions ("Concessions") are transferable and irrevocable but only Concessions can be mortgaged. Both are regulated by the same civil law rules that regulate real estate and fixed assets, save that they are not subject to attachments.
Chilean mining law recognizes a preference to a Concession owner and not to the land surface owner because the State is interested in the development of mining resources. However, in the case of houses and their immediately surrounding lands, or lands where vineyards and fruit trees are planted, only the owner may grant the permission to a Concession holder to obtain easements and surface rights.
The owner of a Concession, commencing as of the date of the request of the Sentencia, has to pay a yearly licence fee to the State in order to maintain its property over the same. Lack of payment may cause loss of ownership through auction by the State, although the licence fee can be paid up to the day of auction to prevent any loss. License fees are significantly higher for exploitation mining concessions than for exploration mining concessions.
EXPLORATION BUDGET - 1996
The following table lists the properties in which the Company has an interest, and the 1996 exploration budget for each property. In approving the 1996 budgets for mineral properties, the Company considers a number of factors, among them are: total capital resources available to the Company, joint venture participation, terms of joint venture agreement (if applicable), estimated length of time before the property could be placed into production and activity in the immediate area, evaluation of preliminary geological data, anticipated costs and geologic location.
Property Portfolio ------------------
(1) NSR - Net Smelter Return (2) Minimum work commitment to be incurred on the property, of which the Company's portion is $60,000. (3) Minimum expenditure commitment to be incurred by lessee of property
Due to the Company's current financial situation it does not plan to conduct any significant exploration activities in 1996. Activities will be limited to making required property payments to maintain the Company's interest, unless a joint venture or acquisition and related financing is accomplished.
During 1995 the Company assessed the capitalized costs of its mineral properties in the United States and Chile. In the opinion of management it was appropriate to write-off the remaining $71,397 carrying value and reverse an accrual of $23,000 for the Nine Mile Property, for a net charge of $48,397 as abandonment of mineral properties.
RESERVES
Minerals - --------
The proven and probable ore reserves stated in this report are geologic reserves that reflect drill-based estimates of the quantities and grades of mineralized material at the Company's mines which the Company believes can be recovered and sold at prices in excess of the cash cost of production.
The estimates are based largely on current costs and on the projected prices and demand for the minerals based upon factors relevant to each mine. Ore reserves are based on calculations of geologic reserves provided to the Company by the operator. The Company has reviewed but has not independently confirmed those calculations.
Ore reserves are reported as general indicators of minimum mine life. Changes in reserves represent general indicators of the results of efforts to develop additional reserves as existing reserves are depleted through production.
Grades of ore fed to process may be different from stated reserve grades because of variation in grades in areas mined from time to time, mining dilution and other factors. Recovered grades reflect variations in the characteristics and payable content of ore fed to process and the success of efforts to improve processing efficiencies.
Reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or future operations.
MINERAL PROPERTIES
The Company has acquired rights to various mineral properties in Chile, Bolivia and the States of Montana and Utah. The following is a description of certain of the Company's mineral properties.
TUINA PROJECT
Ownership: - ----------
The Tuina properties are held by Phoenix, a Chilean company that is owned 41% by the Company and 59% by Mahogany at December 31, 1995. During 1995, the Company, Mahogany and Yuma Gold Mines Limited ("Yuma") entered into a number of agreements which may result in Yuma acquiring Mahogany's interest in the Tuina properties. Yuma may also increase its ownership in the Tuina property by a further 15%. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Description of Property: - ------------------------ The property is located approximately 60 kilometers (37 miles) east of Calama, in Region II in the Country of Chile and consists of a total of 6,080 hectares (15,013 acres).
Hectares - Net -------------- 394 San Jose Lease 5,686 Other properties ----- 6,080 ===== Mineralization: - ---------------
To date the Company has calculated a mineable tonnage of 3.5 million metric tonnes of copper ore contained in the San Jose and San Martin pits at an estimated soluble copper grade of 1.1%. The estimated stripping ratio to mine this tonnage would be 2.3 to 1.
Description of Property Agreements: - -----------------------------------
(1) San Jose Lease: ---------------
The San Jose Lease covers an area of 394 hectares and hosts all, or substantially all, of the current proven reserves. There are two known areas of copper mineralization on this property called the San Jose pit and the San Martin pit. To date all production has been from properties held under this lease. During 1994 Phoenix renegotiated its lease on the property (the "Operating Lease"). The Operating Lease has a term of 30 years and requires a payment of 5% of the copper produced with a minimum payment of 16 tonnes of copper per month. Under the terms of the Operating Lease the obligation to make the minimum lease payments has been waived until August 1995 and in return a payment of $200,000 was made. This $200,000 payment represented an advance payment against which future lease payments could be offset. Since August 1995 the minimum lease payments have been partially met through application of this advance payment. The minimum lease payment is a cost which is funded by Yuma pursuant to the Tuina agreements. In addition Phoenix has agreed to make certain bank payments while the Operating Lease is in effect. The payments required of Phoenix are shown below:
Included in the 1999 payments is a lump sum payment of approximately $2,196,000. This amount is payable only if Phoenix is producing from the leased claims.
Phoenix has also agreed to pay the property owner $8,000 per month, for the lease of certain equipment. This agreement will allow the Company to continue using the equipment after the lease on the mineral properties has expired. This obligation to pay $8,000 per month will only commence when the Operating Lease is terminated or when it expires.
(2) Other Properties: -----------------
The Company has the exploration rights for an additional 5,686 hectares which are not subject to any underlying royalties or agreements. The Company is in the process of transforming these exploration rights to exploitation rights. There are two known areas of copper mineralization on this property called Inca and Milagro.
Prior Activities: - -----------------
Since its acquisition in June 1991, the Company has expanded the camp facilities to accommodate 120 persons and completed a detailed mine plan for the production of copper precipitate. In December 1991 the first section of the leach pad was completed.
In 1991 and 1992 the Company carried out several drill programs on the properties.
The Company started mining operations in the first quarter of 1992, producing copper precipitates. Mining stopped later in 1992 due to a dispute with the mining contractor (see also Item 3, Legal Proceedings). The mining contractor was able to obtain a temporary embargo during 1992 preventing the Company from achieving its planned levels of production. The embargo was removed during the fourth quarter of 1992 and new contracts were signed with a replacement to provide services for crushing, transportation, drilling and blasting.
Due to high transportation and refining and treatment charges and reductions in the price of copper, the Tuina Mine was experiencing negative cash flow throughout 1993. As a result of these factors, the Company and Mahogany suspended production of copper precipitates and put the mine on a care and maintenance program. Employment of a significant portion of the mine's workforce was terminated and the mine office in Calama was closed during 1993. The last shipment of copper precipitates was made in July 1993.
A reverse circulation drill program was completed in 1994. The drill program has confirmed a probable (geological) reserve of approximately 1.772 million tonnes grading 1.7% total copper (1.1% soluble) at the San Jose pit, and a probable (geological) reserve of 2.075 million tonnes grading 1.3% total copper (1.2% soluble) at the San Martin pit. At both prospects sulfide mineralization was encountered below the oxide zone.
1995 Activities: - ----------------
During 1995, Yuma commissioned UM Engineering ("UM") to prepare an independent bankable feasibility study on the economics of a solvent extraction / electrowinning ("SX/EW") plant for the Tuina Project. UM delivered its report in July, 1995 (the "UM Report"). The UM Report concluded that, based on current reserves of approximately 38,000 tons of recoverable copper, a 6,000 ton per year plant could generate a rate of return of 26% and achieve payout in approximately four years. In addition, the economics of the SX/EW plant could be improved by: conducting a mining survey to increase proven reserves; obtaining other ore sources from surrounding properties; and/or decreasing the capital investment by using second hand equipment or subcontracting parts of the operation.
1996 Planned Activities: - ------------------------
Activities on the Tuina Project have been curtailed pending completion of Yuma's proposed acquisition of Mahogany's 59% interest in Phoenix. Yuma is currently funding ongoing costs relating to the Tuina Project. It is expected that once this transaction closes Yuma will proceed with bringing the Tuina copper project into production. Yuma, Mahogany and Company management are reviewing and assessing alternatives to further improve the economics of the Tuina Project.
TINTIC PROPERTIES
Ownership: - ---------- The properties are held 100% by the Company.
Description of Property: - ------------------------
The property is located in the Tintic Mining District, Utah and Juab Counties in the State of Utah, approximately 80 miles south of Salt Lake City. The property comprises (1) surface and mineral rights on approximately 8,115 acres of patented lode mining claims and other patented land owned in fee simple; (2) 2,200 acres of patented land with agricultural and mineral rights; (3) city lots in Eureka, Utah, covering 21 acres; (4) 104 acres of unpatented mining claims; and (5) 20 acres without mineral rights. In addition, the Company owns 28 acres of patented lode mining claims and two unpatented lode mining claims in the Tintic Mining District, Juab County, Utah.
Mineralization: - --------------- There are currently no gold reserves identified on the properties, however deep exploration targets are renewing the interest of several companies.
Description of Property Agreements: - ----------------------------------- The Company owns the Tintic properties outright and has no obligations for underlying payments other than annual fees to the State of Utah.
On January 23, 1987, the Company entered into a ten-year mining lease with Centurion Mines Corporation, a non-affiliated mining company, covering approximately 6,000 acres. The lease, which specifically excludes the mine dumps and tailings, Silver City mill, and existing grazing leases, requires a production royalty equal to a 5% NSR. During 1991 North Lily renegotiated its mining lease. The lessee is required to make advance royalty payments of $27,500 in 1992, $27,500 in 1993, $27,500 in 1994 and $75,000 thereafter (payments to 1996 have been received). The lessee is also required to fulfil a work commitment with respect to the leased premises at a minimum cost to lessee of $50,000 in 1992, $50,000 in 1993 and $150,000 during each succeeding year.
Prior Activities: - -----------------
To date the lessee has made all lease payments and has fulfilled all work commitments on exploration and development in the Tintic Mining District since negotiating the lease agreement.
Planned 1996 Activities: - ------------------------
The property remains subject to a lease agreement with Centurion Mines Corporation who are operators of the property. Centurion Mines Corporation have advised the Company that they will be spending at least $150,000 in exploration work on the property in order to fulfil their work commitments.
SILVER CITY JOINT VENTURE
Ownership: - ---------- The joint venture property is owned 50% by North Lily and 50% by Mahogany.
Description of Property: - ------------------------ The joint venture property is located in Juab County, approximately 80 miles south of Salt Lake City, Utah and consists of approximately 20 acres.
Mineralization: - ---------------
The Silver City Joint Venture was a project designed to extract gold and silver from a previous mine's tailings using a heap leach process. The project is now undergoing reclamation work, while considering leaching opportunities, and it is not known if the project will produce any further gold or gold equivalent.
Description of Property Agreement: - ----------------------------------
Pursuant to an agreement dated July 21, 1987, the Company conveyed a 50% undivided beneficial interest, in the joint property, to Magellan Resources Inc. ("Magellan"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mahogany. To earn its 50% interest Magellan funded the initial $300,000 development expenditures of the joint venture.
Prior Activities: - -----------------
All necessary environmental and building permits were obtained for the heap leach facility in early 1988. Construction of the facility and pad was completed by June 1988 at a total capitalized cost of approximately $1,700,000. The joint venture was considered to be in a pre-production status until October 1, 1988. The excess of revenues from costs from June 1988 through September 1988 were netted against capitalized costs, which reduced capitalized costs by $500,267.
Silver City produced gold and silver through heap leaching with cyanide. The gold and silver is recovered through zinc precipitation. A gold/silver ore is produced at the plant and then sold to a refinery. To date Silver City has processed only the mineral tailings dumps from the nearby area.
During 1994 the Company proceeded with the closure and reclamation of the Silver City heap leach facility. The Company sold non-essential equipment and leased and commenced use of carbon columns to recover precious metals and base metals in the pregnant solution for income and reclamation purposes.
Planned 1996 Activities: - ------------------------
The remaining reclamation costs have been budgeted for $440,000 of which $220,000 is the Company's share. Approximately $165,000 in state reclamation bonds have been jointly posted. After reclamation work is completed, to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities, the reclamation bonds are to be returned. Funding of reclamation work in 1996 remains a substantial burden to the Company.
SAN SIMON PROPERTY
Ownership: - ----------
On April 1, 1995, the Company and Akiko Gold Resources Ltd. ("Akiko"), entered into a letter of agreement (the "San Simon Agreement") with Robert S. Friberg and Marcelo Claure Z. (jointly "Friberg/Claure") whereby Friberg/Claure agreed to acquire mineral properties located in the San Simon region of Bolivia on behalf of Akiko and the Company (collectively the "Companies"). Friberg/Claure will retain an 8% carried interest, with the Companies funding all costs and obligations on a 50/50 basis. To date Friberg/Claure have acquired four concessions (the "San Simon Property") from a third party. Friberg/Claure are to transfer the San Simon Property to a Bolivian subsidiary to be established by the Company. The Companies do not anticipate any further properties to be acquired under the San Simon Agreement. Through December 31, 1995, the Company has paid $40,338 to Friberg/Claure relating to costs incurred pursuant to the San Simon Agreement and property payments made on the San Simon Property.
Description of Property: - ------------------------
The San Simon Property consists of four concessions, known as "Pedro Ricardo I" and "Pedro Ricardo II", "Machetero I" and "Machetero II" and is located in northeastern Bolivia, adjacent to the Brazilian border within the Amazon Basin, in the area of San Simon, Canton Mategua, Province of Itenez, State of Beni and consists of approximately 5,300 hectares.
Mineralization: - --------------- There are no known gold reserves on the San Simon Property at this time.
Description of Property Agreement: - ----------------------------------
Pursuant to the terms of a property concession agreement entered into on behalf of the Companies, the Companies are required to make total payments of $300,000 to the vendor over a three year period. The Companies have paid $25,000 to date and are required to pay: $10,000 on March 31, 1996 (paid) and $10,000 on April 30, 1996; $40,000 on November 12, 1996; $40,000 on May 12, 1997; $50,000 on November 12, 1997 and $125,000 on May 12, 1998. The San Simon Property is also subject to a 5% net profits interest ("NPI") in favour of the vendor. The Companies may purchase a 2% NPI at any time during the exploration phase upon payent of $1,700,000. The Companies would then also hold a right of first refusal on a 2% NPI of the remaining 3% NPI. The term of the agreement is for twenty years and the Companies can terminate the agreement without penalty on 30 days notice.
Pursuant to the San Simon Agreement, the Companies have also agreed to a yearly work commitment of $30,000 per quarter. In addition, the Companies may be obligated to pay Friberg/Claure the following amounts: $10,000, in cash or common stock of the Companies, upon the first transfer of a property to a Bolivian subsidiary, to be established by the Companies; $20,000, in cash or common stock of the Companies, when a total of $200,000 has been spent on the properties acquired pursuant to the San Simon Agreement; $50,000 upon completion of a feasibility study on any properties acquired pursuant to the San Simon Agreement.
Prior Activities: - -----------------
The Companies are not aware of any prior work on the San Simon Property. However, the region was worked on as early as 1688 and recently sporadic production has taken place from gold-rich zones adjacent to the San Simon Property by a number of local miners. It is estimated that they are removing approximately two kilograms of gold per day by using crude mining methods.
1995 Activities: - ----------------
Minimal work was performed on the San Simon Property in 1995.
Planned 1996 Activities: - ------------------------
The Companies are seeking a joint venture partner to help exploit the San Simon Property and have had discussion with several major mining companies. If the Companies are unable to conclude any arrangements the Companies will commence work on the San Simon Property pursuant to the terms of its agreements.
MONTANA PROPERTIES
The Company holds various interests in a number of properties in the State of Montana. There are no obligations for underlying payments other than annual state fees to the State of Montana. The Company has not conducted any exploration work in 1995 on these properties. Costs relating to these properties were mostly written off in prior years. As at Decenber 31, 1995 the Company is carrying these properties at $8,395.
Item 3.