Item 2. PROPERTIES
The following discussion satisfies the reporting requirements of Items 1 and 2.
DESCRIPTION OF UNITED BANKSHARES, INC.
Organizational History and Subsidiaries - ---------------------------------------
United Bankshares, Inc. ("United") is a West Virginia corporation registered as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. United was incorporated on March 26, 1982 and organized on September 9, 1982. United began conducting business on May 1, 1984 with the acquisition of three wholly-owned subsidiaries. On October 1, 1985, these three subsidiaries were merged and on November 1, 1985, were renamed United National Bank ("UNB").
Since that time UNB has acquired through merger or consolidation the following banks: Heritage Bancorp, Inc. (a holding company); First National Bank of Ripley; Kanawha Banking and Trust Company; Ohio Valley National Bank; Elk National Bank; Montgomery National Bank, the sole subsidiary of Liberty Bancshares Inc., a bank holding company; First Bank of Ceredo, the bank subsidiary of Financial Future Corporation, a bank holding company; CB&T Westover Bank; the Star City Branch of Community Bank & Trust, N. A.; and First Empire Federal Savings & Loan Association, the sole subsidiary of Eagle Bancorp, Inc., a bank holding company.
On June 30, 1996 United formed United Mortgage Company, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UNB, with its wholly-owned subsidiaries United Mortgage Center, Inc. and United Home Lending Services, Inc. The business of United Mortgage Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries is the origination of residential real estate loans for resale, the conducting of mortgage loan servicing activities for certain loans, and generally the activities commonly conducted by a mortgage banking company.
On September 1, 1993, UBC Holding Company, ("UBC"), a United subsidiary, was formed to effect the Financial Future Corporation transaction. UBC is a second tier holding company with UNB currently being its only subsidiary.
On August 9, 1990, United acquired BankFirst Corporation ("BankFirst"), a one bank holding company based in McLean, Virginia. BankFirst was merged with UBF Holding Company, Inc. ("UBF"), a United subsidiary formed to effect this acquisition. UBF acquired Bank First, N.A. ("Bank First"), the subsidiary of BankFirst.
On October 11, 1995, United formed Commercial Interim Bank, Inc. ("Interim Bank"), a state member bank located in Arlington, Virginia, to facilitate the acquisition of First Commercial Bank of Arlington, Virginia ("FCB"). United then merged Bank First into Interim Bank from its wholly owned subsidiary, UBF. Concurrent with the merger of Bank First into Interim Bank, UBF was merged into United. United acquired FCB on October 31, 1995 and merged it into Interim Bank. United then effected a name change of Interim Bank to First Commercial Bank. On March 18, 1996 First Commercial Bank's name was changed to United Bank.
United National Bank-South ("UNB-S"), was formed on November 1, 1992, as a part of United's acquisition of Summit Holding Corporation and its lead bank, Raleigh County National Bank. On January 27, 1996, UNB-S was merged into and became a part of UNB. Offices of UNB-S became branch offices of UNB.
In December 1996, United Brokerage Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UNB began operations. United Brokerage Services, Inc. is a fully-disclosed broker/dealer and is a registered Investment Advisor with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the Securities and Exchange Commission and a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. United Brokerage Services, Inc. offers a wide range of investment products as well as comprehensive financial planning and asset management services to the general public.
In late 1988, United chartered and capitalized United Venture Fund, Inc., a West Virginia corporation which has qualified as a Capital Company under the West Virginia Capital Company Act. This subsidiary makes loans and limited equity investments, consistent with the Bank Holding Company Act, that will result in or contribute to new jobs and/or industry in West Virginia.
Offices - -------
The headquarters of United are located in United Center at 500 Virginia Street, East, Charleston, West Virginia.
The main office of UNB is located at 514 Market Street, Parkersburg, West Virginia. United's corporate offices and UNB's executive offices are also located in Parkersburg at Fifth and Avery Streets. Currently, all of UNB's offices are located in West Virginia. UNB operates three branches in the Parkersburg area, seven branches in the Charleston area, three branches in the Morgantown area, two branches in Vienna, four branches in the Montgomery area, two branches in Ripley, four branches in the Huntington area, four branches in the Beckley area, five offices in the central region of West Virginia, one office in the Danville area, three offices in the Logan area. UNB owns all of these facilities except for two in the Parkersburg area, three in the Charleston area, two in the Beckley area and one in Summersville, all of which are leased under operating leases. UNB also owns and operates five branches throughout West Virginia's northern panhandle. The main facility of UNB's Wheeling office is leased from Ogden Newspapers, Inc. UNB also operates five branch facilities in central West Virginia. UNB owns all five of these offices. Additionally, UNB operates six loan production offices located in Beckley, Bridgeport, Charleston, Martinsburg, Parkersburg, and Teays Valley, West Virginia.
United Bank conducts business from an office located at 3801 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia with a branch office at 1301 Beverly Road, McLean, Virginia under a lease agreement.
Employees - ---------
As of December 31, 1996 United and its subsidiaries had approximately 893 full-time equivalent employees and officers. None of these employees is represented by a collective bargaining unit, and management considers employee relations to be excellent.
Business of United - ------------------
As a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, United's present business is the operation of its bank subsidiaries. As of December 31, 1996, United's consolidated assets approximated $2,326,877,000 and total shareholders' equity approximated $258,514,000.
United is permitted to acquire other banks and bank holding companies, as well as thrift institutions. United is also permitted to engage in certain non- banking activities which are closely related to banking under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation Y. Management continues to consider such opportunities as they arise, and in this regard, management from time to time makes inquiries, proposals, offers or expressions of interest as to potential opportunities; although no agreements or understandings to acquire other banks or bank holding companies or nonbanking subsidiaries or to engage in other nonbanking activities, other than those identified herein, presently exist.
Business of Subsidiary Banks - ----------------------------
All of United's subsidiary banks are full-service commercial banks and, as such, engage in most types of business permitted by law and regulation. Included among the banking services offered are the acceptance of deposits in checking, savings, time and money market accounts; the making and servicing of personal, commercial, floor plan and student loans; and the making of construction and real estate loans. Also offered are individual retirement accounts, safe deposit boxes, wire transfers and other standard banking products and services. As a part of their lending function, UNB and United Bank offer credit card services including accounts issued under the name of certain correspondent banks.
UNB also maintains a trust department which acts as trustee under wills, trust and pension and profit sharing plans, as executors and administrators of estates, and as guardians for estates of minors and incompetents, and in addition performs a variety of investment and security services. UNB trust services are available to customers of affiliate banks. UNB provides services to its correspondent banks such as check clearing, safekeeping and the buying and selling of federal funds.
UNB is member of a regional network of automated teller machines known as the MAC ATM network while United Bank participates in the MOST network. Through MAC and MOST, all of United's subsidiary banks are participants in a network known as Cirrus which provides banking on a nationwide basis.
Lending Activities - ------------------
United's total loan portfolio, net of unearned income, increased $114,619,000, or 6.6%, to $1,847,605,000, in 1996 and is comprised of commercial, real estate and consumer loans including credit card and home equity loans. Commercial and real estate loans increased $29,962,000 or 13.7% and $92,307,000 or 7.2%, respectively, while consumer loans, net of unearned income, increased $2,350,000 or 1.1%.
Commercial Loans - ----------------
The commercial loan portfolio consists of loans to corporate borrowers in small to mid-size industrial and commercial companies, as well as automobile dealers, service, retail and wholesale merchants. Coal mining companies make up an insignificant portion of loans in the portfolio. Collateral securing these loans includes equipment, machinery, inventory, receivables, vehicles and commercial real estate. Commercial loans are considered to contain a higher level of risk than other loan types although care is taken to minimize these risks. Numerous risk factors impact this portfolio including industry specific risks such as economy, new technology, labor rates and cyclicality, as well as customer specific factors, such as cash flow, financial structure, operating controls and asset quality. United diversifies risk within this portfolio by closely monitoring industry concentrations and portfolios to ensure that it does not exceed established lending guidelines. Diversification is intended to limit the risk of loss from any single unexpected economic event or trend. Underwriting standards require a comprehensive review and independent evaluation of virtually all larger balance commercial loans by the loan committee prior to approval with ongoing updates of the loan portfolio.
Real Estate Loans - -----------------
Commercial real estate loans consist of commercial mortgages, which generally are secured by nonresidential and multi-family residential properties. Also included in this portfolio are loans that are secured by owner-occupied real estate, but made for purposes other than the construction or purchase of real estate. Commercial real estate loans carry many of the same customers and industry risks as the commercial loan portfolio. Real estate mortgage loans to consumers are secured primarily by a first lien deed of trust. These loans are traditional one-to-four family residential mortgages. The loans generally do not exceed an 80% loan to value ratio at the loan origination date and most are at a variable rate of interest. These loans are considered to contain normal risk.
Consumer Loans - --------------
Consumer loans are secured by automobiles, boats, recreational vehicles, and other personal property. Personal loans, home equity, student loans and unsecured credit card receivables are also included as consumer loans. United monitors the risk associated with these types of loans by monitoring such factors as portfolio growth, lending policies and economic conditions. Underwriting standards are continually evaluated and modified based upon these factors.
Underwriting Standards - ----------------------
United's loan underwriting guidelines and standards are updated periodically and are presented for approval by each of the respective Boards of Directors of its subsidiary banks. The purpose of the standards and guidelines is to grant loans on a sound and collectible basis; to invest available funds in a safe, profitable manner; to serve the legitimate credit needs of the communities of United's primary market area; and ensure that all loan applicants receive fair and equal treatment in the lending process. It is the intent of the underwriting guidelines and standards to: minimize loan losses by carefully investigating the credit history of each applicant, verify the source of repayment and the ability of the applicant to repay, collateralize those loans in which collateral is deemed to be required, exercise care in the documentation of the application, review, approval, and origination process, and administer a comprehensive loan collection program. The above guidelines are adhered to and subject to the experience, background and personal judgment of the loan officer assigned to the loan application. A loan officer may grant and justify a loan with slight variances from the underwriting guidelines and standards. However, the loan officer may not exceed their respective lending authority without obtaining the prior, proper approval from a superior, a regional supervisor, or the Loan Committee, whichever is deemed appropriate for the nature of the variance.
Loan Origination and Processing - -------------------------------
United generally originates loans within the primary market area of its banking subsidiaries. United may from time to time make loans to borrowers and/or on properties outside of its primary market area as an accommodation to its customers. Processing of all loans is centralized in the Charleston, West Virginia office. United with the formation of United Home Lending Service, Inc. has entered the mortgage banking business. As of December 31, 1996, the balance of mortgage loans being serviced by United for others was $137,057,000.
Secondary Markets - -----------------
Historically, United had not been in the business of selling or purchasing loans and had not originated loans with the intent to sell them in the secondary market. During 1996, with the acquisition of
Eagle Bancorp, Inc. and the formation of United Mortgage Company, Inc., During 1996, United originated $26,157,000 of real estate loans for sale in the secondary market, designated $38,611,000 of existing real estate loans as held for sale, and sold $63,631,000 of loans designated as held for sale in the secondary market.
The principal sources of revenue from United's mortgage banking business are: (i) loan origination fees; (ii) gains or losses from the sale of loans, if any; (iii) interest earned on mortgage loans during the period that they are held by United pending sale; (iv) loan servicing fees; and (v) gain or loss on the close out of the hedge instrument used to offset the risk that changes in interest rate may have on the value of United's mortgage loan inventory.
Investment Activities - ---------------------
United's investment policy stresses the management of the investment securities portfolio, which includes both securities held to maturity and securities available for sale, to maximize return over the long-term in a manner that is consistent with good banking practices and relative safety of principal. United currently does not engage in trading account activity. The Asset/Liability Committee of United is responsible for the coordination and evaluation of the investment portfolio.
Sources of funds for investment activities include "core deposits". Core deposits include certain demand deposits, statement and special savings and NOW accounts. These deposits are relatively stable and they are the lowest cost source of funds available to United. Short-term borrowings have also been a significant source of funds. These include federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB borrowings. Repurchase agreements represent funds which are generally obtained as the result of a competitive bidding process.
United's investment portfolio remains comprised largely of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Agencies and Corporations. Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions are comprised of municipal securities with an average quality of not less than an "A" rating.
During 1996, United realized net losses of $98,000 from sales in the securities available for sale portfolio. The sales of these securities occurred as United adjusted the securities available for sale portfolio, including those acquired in the Eagle Bancorp, Inc. merger, in order to increase interest income without extending the duration of the portfolio. The proceeds from these sales were reinvested in similar securities yielding a higher rate of return. There were no securities sales in 1995.
Additionally, United has used an off-balance-sheet instrument known as an interest rate swap, to further aid in interest rate risk
management. The use of the interest rate swap is a cost effective means of synthetically altering the repricing structure of certain balance sheet items. The interest rate swap transaction involves the exchange of a floating interest rate payment based on the one month London inter-bank offered rate (LIBOR) for a fixed rate receipt based on the U. S. three year Treasury note. The net pay and receive amount is calculated on an underlying notional amount without the exchange of the underlying principal amount. The interest rate swap subjects United to market risk associated with changes in interest rates, as well as the risk that the counterparty will fail to perform. Performance risk is considered nominal by virtue of the caliber of the parties involved. Only the interest payments are exchanged, and therefor, cash requirements and exposure to credit risk are significantly less than the notional amount.
The interest rate swap was entered into early in 1994 in response to tactical asset/liability management considerations; specifically, in response to declining market interest rates during 1993 and United's net interest margin being compressed due to the asset sensitivity position of the balance sheet. The interest rate swap was to adjust the asset sensitivity to within United's policy of +10% or -10% of earning assets. The interest rate swap was entered into specifically to hedge prime rate indexed loans and swap a variable rate for a fixed rate.
At December 31, 1996, the total notional amount of the interest rate swap in effect was only $50 million. The swap matured in February 1997. During 1996, the interest rate swap reduced net interest income by $526,000. This impact was offset by higher net interest revenue generated by the on-balance sheet instruments hedged by the interest rate swap and produced a higher rate of return and net interest margin. United did not have interest rate swaps prior to 1994. For further details, see Interest Rate Sensitivity and the related Interest Rate Sensitivity Gap in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Additionally, United enters into hedging transactions to offset the risk that a change in interest rates will result in a decrease in the value of United's current mortgage loan inventory or its commitments to originate mortgage loans (the "pipeline"). The pipeline is analyzed on a loan-by-loan basis to estimate the exposure to loss based on the market price, commitment price and time to expiration. The risk of loss is then matched with the appropriate hedge vehicle. United primarily utilizes forward contracts for the delivery of mortgage-backed securities as hedge vehicles. United's policies generally require that it hedge substantially all of its inventory of conforming and government loans and the maximum portion of its pipeline that may close. The mortgage-backed securities that are to be delivered under these contracts are fixed or adjustable-rate, corresponding with the composition of United's inventory and pipeline. The correlation between the price performance of the hedge vehicles and the inventory being hedged is very high due to the similarity of the asset and the related hedge vehicle. At December 31, 1996, United had open commitments
amounting to approximately $6,000,000 to sell mortgage-backed securities with varying settlement dates generally not extending beyond March 1997. As such, United is not exposed to significant risk nor will it derive any significant benefit from changes in interest rates on the price of the mortgage loan inventory, net of gains or losses of associated hedge positions.
Operating Subsidiaries - ----------------------
During 1996, UNB chartered two operating subsidiaries, United Brokerage Services, Inc. and United Mortgage Company, Inc.
United Brokerage Services, Inc. is a fully-disclosed broker/dealer and a registered Investment Advisor with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the Securities and Exchange Commission and a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. United Brokerage Services, Inc. offers a wide range of investment products as well as comprehensive financial planning and asset management services to the general public.
United Mortgage Company, Inc. was formed in connection with the merger of Eagle Bancorp, Inc. ("Eagle") with and into United and the related merger of First Empire Federal Savings and Loan Association ("First Empire") with and into UNB. In accordance with the merger agreement, UNB requested and received regulatory approval to form and operate United Mortgage Company, Inc. The business of United Mortgage Company, Inc. will be the origination and acquisition of residential real estate loans for resale, the conducting of mortgage loan servicing activities for certain loans, and generally the activities commonly conducted by a mortgage banking company.
Competition - -----------
United faces a high degree of competition in nearly all of the markets it serves. These markets may generally be defined as Wood, Kanawha, Monongalia, Jackson, Cabell, Hancock, Ohio, Marshall, Gilmer, Lewis, Webster, Boone, Logan, Nicholas, Fayette and Raleigh Counties in West Virginia; Lawrence, Belmont, Jefferson and Washington Counties in Ohio; and Arlington and Fairfax Counties in Virginia, located adjacent to the Washington D.C. area, which is in close proximity to West Virginia's eastern panhandle. United competes in Ohio markets because of the close proximity to the Ohio border of certain subsidiary offices. Included in United's markets are the Parkersburg Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), the Charleston MSA, the Huntington MSA, the Wheeling MSA and the Weirton MSA. These represent the five largest West Virginia MSA's. United considers the above counties and MSA's to be the primary market area for the business of its banking subsidiaries.
West Virginia banks are permitted unlimited branch banking throughout the state. In addition, interstate acquisitions of and by West Virginia banks and bank holding companies are permissible on a reciprocal basis. West Virginia also allows reciprocal interstate acquisitions by thrift institutions. These conditions serve to intensify competition within United's market.
As of December 31, 1996, there were 14 multi-bank holding companies and 37 one-bank holding companies in the State of West Virginia registered with the Federal Reserve System. United presently ranks fourth among these bank holding companies and second among holding companies headquartered in West Virginia based on both asset and deposit size. These holding companies are headquartered in various West Virginia cities and control banks throughout the state, which compete for business as well as for the acquisition of additional banks.
Economic Characteristics of Primary Market Area - -----------------------------------------------
Although the market area of the banking subsidiaries encompass a portion of the coal fields located in southern West Virginia, an area of the state which has been economically depressed, the coal related loans in the loan portfolio of the banking subsidiaries constitute less than 2% of United's total loans outstanding. The state of West Virginia has a more diversified economy than it had during the peak periods of coal production with the chemical manufacturing industry accounting for 19% of the entire manufacturing workforce and 33% of the manufacturing wages, according to West Virginia state records. This diversified economy has contributed to the positive trends in the personal income and unemployment rates in recent years as personal income has increased from $14,315 in 1991 to $18,672 in mid-1996 and the state's overall unemployment rate has declined from 10.5% in 1991 to 6.5% in July 1996 -the lowest unemployment rate in nearly 20 years, according to available information from the West Virginia Bureau of Employment Programs.
Eleven of the 16 counties within United's primary West Virginia market area rank among the state's top twenty counties in terms of personal income and low unemployment rates. United generally serves the stronger economic areas of the state while maintaining a satisfactory CRA rating.
Regulation and Supervision - --------------------------
United, as a bank holding company, is subject to the restrictions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is registered pursuant to its provisions. As such, United is subject to the reporting requirements of and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Board of Governors").
The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or indirect ownership of more than five percent of the voting shares of any bank within the United States without prior approval of the Board of Governors. With certain exceptions, a bank holding company also is prohibited from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting shares of any company which is not a bank, and from engaging directly or indirectly in business unrelated to the business of banking, or managing or controlling banks.
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in its Regulation Y, permits bank holding companies to engage in non-banking activities closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. Approval of the Board of Governors is necessary to engage in these activities or to make acquisitions of corporations engaging in these activities. In addition, on a case by case basis, the Board of Governors may approve other non-banking activities.
As a bank holding company doing business in West Virginia, United is also subject to regulation and examination by the West Virginia Board of Banking and Financial Institutions (the "West Virginia Banking Board") and must submit annual reports to the department. Further, any acquisition application which United must submit to the Board of Governors must also be submitted to the West Virginia Banking Board for approval.
United is also registered under and is subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
UNB, as national banking associations, is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. UNB is also a member of the Federal Reserve System, and as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations issued thereunder.
United Bank, as a Virginia state member bank, is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Federal Reserve System, and as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations issued thereunder. United Bank is subject to regulation by the Virginia Corporation Commission's Bureau of Financial Institutions.
The deposits of United's wholly-owned banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") to the extent provided by law. Accordingly, these banks are also subject to regulation by the FDIC.
UNITED BANKSHARES, INC. FORM 10-K, PART I
Item 3.