Item 2. Properties
The following discussion satisfies the reporting requirements of Items 1 and 2.
DESCRIPTION OF UNITED BANKSHARES, INC.
Organizational History and Subsidiaries - ---------------------------------------
United Bankshares, Inc. ("United") is a West Virginia corporation registered as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. United was incorporated on March 26, 1982, organized on September 9, 1982, and began conducting business on May 1, 1984 with the acquisition of three wholly-owned subsidiaries. Since its formation in 1982, United has acquired twenty-four banking institutions. United has two banking subsidiaries, United National Bank ("UNB") and United Bank. United also owns nonbank subsidiaries that engage in mortgage banking, asset management, investment banking and financial planning.
Offices - -------
The headquarters of United are located in United Center at 500 Virginia Street, East, Charleston, West Virginia. United's executive offices are located in Parkersburg, West Virginia at Fifth and Avery Streets. United operates seventy-eight offices--fifty-three offices located throughout West Virginia, twenty-two offices throughout the Northern Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C. areas and three in Ohio. United owns all its West Virginia facilities except for two in the Parkersburg area, three in the Wheeling area, three in the Charleston area, two in the Beckley area and one each in Summersville and Clarksburg, all of which are leased under operating leases. United leases all of its facilities under operating lease agreements in the Northern Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C. areas except for two offices, one each in Fairfax and Vienna, Virginia which are owned facilities.
Employees - ---------
As of December 31, 1999 United and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,387 full-time equivalent employees and officers. None of these employees is represented by a collective bargaining unit, and management considers employee relations to be excellent.
Business of United - ------------------
As a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended,
United's present business is community and mortgage banking. As of December 31, 1999, United's consolidated assets approximated $5.1 billion and total shareholders' equity approximated $396 million.
United is permitted to acquire other banks and bank holding companies, as well as thrift institutions. United is also permitted to engage in certain non- banking activities which are closely related to banking under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation Y. Management continues to consider such opportunities as they arise, and in this regard, management from time to time makes inquiries, proposals, offers or expressions of interest as to potential opportunities; although no agreements or understandings to acquire other banks or bank holding companies or nonbanking subsidiaries or to engage in other nonbanking activities, other than those identified herein, presently exist.
Business of Subsidiary Banks - ----------------------------
United, through its subsidiaries, engages primarily in community banking and mortgage banking and additionally offers most types of business permitted by law and regulation. Included among the banking services offered are the acceptance of deposits in checking, savings, time and money market accounts; the making and servicing of personal, commercial, floor plan and student loans; and the making of construction and real estate loans. Also offered are individual retirement accounts, safe deposit boxes, wire transfers and other standard banking products and services. As a part of their lending function, UNB and United Bank offer credit card services including accounts issued under the name of certain correspondent banks.
UNB and United Bank each maintains a trust department which acts as trustee under wills, trust and pension and profit sharing plans, as executors and administrators of estates, and as guardians for estates of minors and incompetents, and in addition performs a variety of investment and security services. Trust services are available to customers of affiliate banks. UNB provides services to its correspondent banks such as check clearing, safekeeping and the buying and selling of federal funds.
United Brokerage Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UNB, is a fully-disclosed broker/dealer and a registered Investment Advisor with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the Securities and Exchange Commission and a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. United Brokerage Services, Inc. offers a wide range of investment products as well as comprehensive financial planning and asset management services to the general public.
UNB is a member of a regional network of automated teller machines known as the MAC ATM network while United Bank participates in the MOST network. Through MAC and MOST, all of United's subsidiary banks are participants in a network known as Cirrus, which provides banking on a nationwide basis.
Lending Activities - ------------------
United's loan portfolio, net of unearned income, increased $518 million, or 19.52%, to $3.17 billion in 1999 and is comprised of commercial, real estate and consumer loans including credit card and home equity loans. Commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $26.5 million or 5.21% and $126.8 million or 22.1%, respectively, while consumer loans, net of unearned income, increased $49.8 million or 15.9%. Residential real estate loans increased $312.3 million or 29.02%.
As of December 31, 1999, approximately $401 million or 13% of United's loan portfolio were real estate loans that met the regulatory definition of a high loan-to-value loan. A high loan-to-value real estate loan is defined as any loan, line of credit, or combination of credits secured by liens on or interests in real estate that equals or exceeds 90% of the real estate's appraised value, unless the loan has other appropriate credit support. Appropriate credit support may include mortgage insurance, readily marketable collateral, or other acceptable collateral that reduces the loan-to-value ratio below 90%.
The December 31, 1999 position in high loan-to-value loans is significantly less than the December 31, 1998 amounts of $617 million or 20% of total loans, of which $456 million was held in the loans held for sale category on United's balance sheet.
Commercial Loans - ----------------
The commercial loan portfolio consists of loans to corporate borrowers primarily in small to mid-size industrial and commercial companies, as well as automobile dealers, service, retail and wholesale merchants. Coal mining companies make up an insignificant portion of loans in the portfolio. Collateral securing these loans include equipment, machinery, inventory, receivables, vehicles and commercial real estate. Commercial loans are considered to contain a higher level of risk than other loan types although care is taken to minimize these risks. Numerous risk factors impact this portfolio including industry specific risks such as economy, new technology, labor rates and cyclicality, as well as customer specific factors, such as cash flow, financial structure, operating controls and asset quality. United diversifies risk within this portfolio by closely monitoring industry concentrations and portfolios to ensure that it does not exceed established lending guidelines. Diversification is intended to limit the risk of loss from any single unexpected economic event or trend. Underwriting standards require a comprehensive review and independent evaluation of virtually all larger balance commercial loans by the loan committee prior to approval.
Real Estate Loans - -----------------
Commercial real estate loans consist of commercial mortgages, which generally are secured by nonresidential and multi-family residential properties. Also included in this portfolio are loans that are secured by owner-occupied real estate, but made for purposes other than the construction or purchase of real estate. Commercial real estate loans carry many of the same customers and industry risks as the commercial loan portfolio. Real estate mortgage loans to consumers are secured primarily by a first lien deed of trust. These loans are traditional one-to-four family residential mortgages. The loans generally do not exceed an 80% loan to value ratio at the loan origination date and most are at a variable rate of interest. These loans are considered to contain normal risk.
Consumer Loans - --------------
Consumer loans are secured by automobiles, boats, recreational vehicles, and other personal property. Personal loans, home equity, student loans and unsecured credit card receivables are also included as consumer loans. United monitors the risk associated with these types of loans by monitoring such factors as portfolio growth, lending policies and economic conditions. Underwriting standards are continually evaluated and modified based upon these factors.
Underwriting Standards - ----------------------
United's loan underwriting guidelines and standards are updated periodically and are presented for approval by each of the respective Boards of Directors of its subsidiary banks. The purpose of the standards and guidelines is to grant loans on a sound and collectible basis; to invest available funds in a safe, profitable manner; to serve the legitimate credit needs of the communities of United's primary market area; and ensure that all loan applicants receive fair and equal treatment in the lending process. It is the intent of the underwriting guidelines and standards to: minimize loan losses by carefully investigating the credit history of each applicant, verify the source of repayment and the ability of the applicant to repay, collateralize those loans in which collateral is deemed to be required, exercise care in the documentation of the application, review, approval, and origination process, and administer a comprehensive loan collection program. The above guidelines are adhered to and subject to the experience, background and personal judgment of the loan officer assigned to the loan application. A loan officer may grant, with justification, a loan with variances from the underwriting guidelines and standards. However, the loan officer may not exceed their respective lending authority without obtaining the prior, proper approval from a superior, a regional supervisor, or the Loan Committee, whichever is deemed appropriate for the nature of the variance.
Loan Origination and Processing - -------------------------------
United generally originates loans within the primary market area of its banking subsidiaries. United may from time to time make loans to borrowers and/or on properties outside of its primary market area as an accommodation to its customers. Processing of all loans is centralized in the Charleston, West Virginia office. As of December 31, 1999, the balance of mortgage loans being serviced by United for others was insignificant.
Secondary Markets - -----------------
United National Bank and George Mason Mortgage Company ("GMMC"), a wholly- owned subsidiary of United Bank, are engaged in the operation of a general mortgage and agency business, including the conducting of mortgage loan servicing activities for certain loans, the origination and acquisition of residential real estate loans for resale and generally the activities commonly conducted by a mortgage banking company. These loans are for single, owner- occupied residences with either adjustable or fixed rate terms, with a variety of maturities tailored to effectively serve its markets.
GMMC primarily originates permanent residential mortgage loans in the northern Virginia market while UNB's originations are predominately in its West Virginia markets. Mortgage loan originations are generally intended to be sold in the secondary market.
During 1999, United originated $1.3 billion of real estate loans for sale in the secondary market and sold $1.4 billion of loans designated as held for sale in the secondary market. Proceeds received from the sales of these loans during 1999 was $1.4 billion.
The principal sources of revenue from United's mortgage banking business are: (i) loan origination fees; (ii) gains or losses from the sale of loans, if any; (iii) interest earned on mortgage loans during the period that they are held by United pending sale; and (iv) loan servicing fees.
Investment Activities - ---------------------
United's investment policy stresses the management of the investment securities portfolio, which includes both securities held to maturity and securities available for sale, to maximize return over the long-term in a manner that is consistent with good banking practices and relative safety of principal. United currently does not engage in trading account activity. The Asset/Liability Committee of United is responsible for the coordination and evaluation of the investment portfolio.
Sources of funds for investment activities include "core deposits". Core deposits include certain demand deposits, statement and special savings and NOW accounts. These deposits are relatively stable and they are the lowest cost source of funds available to United. Short-term borrowings have also been a significant source of funds. These include federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB borrowings. Repurchase agreements represent funds that are generally obtained as the result of a competitive bidding process.
United's investment portfolio is comprised largely of mortgage-backed securities. Additionally United has a substantial amount of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Agencies and Corporations. Obligations of States and Political Subdivisions are comprised of municipal securities with an average quality of not less than an "A" rating.
During 1999, 1998 and 1997, United recognized net gains of $677 thousand, $2.37 million, and $85 thousand, respectively, from the available for sale portfolio. The net gain in 1998 included a $2.49 million gain recognized on an available for sale equity security exchanged in an unaffiliated merger transaction consummated at the end of the first quarter of 1998. Additionally, the 1998 net gain included approximately $300 thousand of net losses from calls of held to maturity securities.
At December 31, 1999, United had no open commitments to sell mortgage- backed securities. As such, United is not exposed to significant risk nor will it derive any significant benefit from changes in interest rates on the price of the mortgage loan inventory.
Competition - -----------
United faces a high degree of competition in all of the markets it serves. These markets may generally be defined as Wood, Kanawha, Monongalia, Jackson, Cabell, Hancock, Ohio, Marshall, Gilmer, Lewis, Webster, Boone, Logan, Nicholas, Fayette and Raleigh Counties in West Virginia; Lawrence, Belmont, Jefferson and Washington Counties in Ohio; Montgomery County in Maryland and Arlington, Loudoun, Prince William and Fairfax Counties in Virginia, located adjacent to the Washington D.C. area, which is in close proximity to West Virginia's eastern panhandle. United competes in Ohio markets because of the close proximity to the Ohio border of certain subsidiary offices. Included in United's West Virginia markets are the five largest West Virginia Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA): the Parkersburg MSA, the Charleston MSA, the Huntington MSA, the Wheeling MSA and the Weirton MSA. United's Virginia markets include the Washington, D.C. Metropolitan area. United considers the above counties and MSA's to be the primary market area for the business of its banking subsidiaries.
With prior regulatory approval, West Virginia and Virginia banks are permitted unlimited branch banking throughout the state. In addition, interstate acquisitions of and by West Virginia and Virginia banks and bank holding companies are permissible on a reciprocal basis, as well as reciprocal interstate acquisitions by thrift institutions. These conditions serve to intensify competition within United's market.
As of December 31, 1999, there were 58 bank holding companies in the State of West Virginia registered with the Federal Reserve System and the West Virginia Board of Banking and Financial Institutions and 74 bank holding companies in the Commonwealth of Virginia registered with the Federal Reserve System and the Virginia Corporation Commission. These holding companies are headquartered in various West Virginia and Virginia cities and control banks throughout West Virginia and Virginia, which compete for business as well as for the acquisition of additional banks.
Economic Characteristics of Primary Market Area - -----------------------------------------------
Although the market area of the banking subsidiaries encompasses a portion of the coal fields located in southern West Virginia, an area of the state which has been economically depressed, the coal related loans in the loan portfolio of the banking subsidiaries constitute less than 2% of United's total loans outstanding. The state of West Virginia has a more diversified economy than it had during the peak periods of coal production with the chemical manufacturing industry accounting for 17% of the entire manufacturing workforce and 30% of the manufacturing wages, according to West Virginia state records. This diversified economy has contributed to the positive trends in the number of payroll jobs created and unemployment rates in recent years as the number of payroll jobs increased 6,400 during calendar year 1999 and the state's overall unemployment rate has declined from 10.5% in 1991 to 6.0% in December 1999. West Virginia's unemployment rate for all of 1999 averaged 6.6%, which ties 1998 for the lowest average annual unemployment rate since 1978, according to available information from the West Virginia Bureau of Employment Programs.
United's northern Virginia subsidiary banking offices are located in markets that reflect very low unemployment rate levels and increased wage levels over a year ago. According to information available from the Virginia Employment Commission, Virginia's unemployment rate as of December 1999 was 2.6%. The 2.6% rate was the lowest rate reported for the month of December in 30 years. Additionally, the Virginia Employment Commission reported that record levels were set with increased nonagricultural employment and increased production workers' salaries in December 1999.
Regulation and Supervision - --------------------------
United, as a bank holding company, is subject to the restrictions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is registered pursuant to its provisions. As such, United is subject to the reporting requirements of and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Board of Governors").
The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or indirect ownership of more than five percent of the voting shares of any bank within the United States without prior approval of the Board of Governors. With certain exceptions, a bank holding company also is prohibited from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting
shares of any company which is not a bank, and from engaging directly or indirectly in business unrelated to the business of banking, or managing or controlling banks.
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in its Regulation Y, permits bank holding companies to engage in non-banking activities closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. Approval of the Board of Governors is necessary to engage in these activities or to make acquisitions of corporations engaging in these activities. In addition, on a case by case basis, the Board of Governors may approve other non-banking activities.
On November 12, 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act was signed into law. The Act modernizes the regulatory framework for financial services in the United States and allows banks, securities firms, and insurance companies to affiliate more directly than they have been permitted to do in the past. Under the Act, a bank holding company may become a "financial holding company" to offer a much broader range of financial products and services than had been previously possible under the traditional banking structure, provided that the bank holding company meets certain certification requirements of the Federal Reserve. United is presently in the process of analyzing the opportunities, requirements, and pitfalls the Act presents.
As a bank holding company doing business in West Virginia, United is also subject to regulation and examination by the West Virginia Board of Banking and Financial Institutions (the "West Virginia Banking Board") and must submit annual reports to the department. Further, any acquisition application that United must submit to the Board of Governors must also be submitted to the West Virginia Banking Board for approval.
United is also registered under and is subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
UNB, as national banking associations, is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. UNB is also a member of the Federal Reserve System, and as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations issued thereunder.
United Bank, as a Virginia state member bank, is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Federal Reserve System, and as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations issued thereunder. United Bank is subject to regulation by the Virginia Corporation Commission's Bureau of Financial Institutions.
The deposits of United's wholly-owned banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") to the extent provided by law. Accordingly, these banks are also subject to regulation by the FDIC.
UNITED BANKSHARES, INC. FORM 10-K, PART I
Item 3.