Item 2.
Properties
We and Seacoast National’s main office occupies approximately 62,000 square feet of a 68,000 square foot building in Stuart, Florida. This building, together with an adjacent 10-lane drive-through banking facility and an additional 27,000 square foot office building, are situated on approximately eight acres of land in the center of Stuart that is zoned for commercial use. The building and land are owned by Seacoast National, which leases out portions of the building not utilized by our company and Seacoast National to unaffiliated third parties.
Adjacent to the main office, Seacoast National leases approximately 21,400 square feet of office space to house operational departments, consisting primarily of information systems and retail support. Seacoast National owns its equipment, which is used for servicing bank deposits and loan accounts as well as on-line banking services, and providing tellers and other customer service personnel with access to customers’ records.
In addition, Seacoast National acquired Big Lake’s operations center as a result of the acquisition of Big Lake on April 1, 2006. The operations center is situated on 3.25 acres in a 4,939 square foot building in Okeechobee, Florida, all of which are owned by Seacoast National. Our PGA Blvd. branch is utilized as a disaster recovery site should natural disasters or other events preclude use of Seacoast National’s primary operations center.
In February 2000, Seacoast National opened a lending office in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida for its Seacoast Marine Finance Division. In November 2002, additional office space was acquired for the Seacoast Marine Finance Division in Alameda, California (430 square feet of leased space), and Newport Beach, California (1,200 square feet of leased space). Since January 2005, the Ft. Lauderdale, Florida office has been in a 2,009 square feet leased facility. The furniture and equipment at these locations is owned by Seacoast National.
In June 2004, Seacoast National also opened a loan production office in Melbourne, Florida. Located in a three story waterfront office building, this office occupies 1,533 square feet of leased space on the third floor. This office was closed in February 2007 coinciding with the opening of our Viera branch location in Brevard County. Personnel at the loan production office now occupy space in the new branch office.
As of December 31, 2008, the net carrying value of branch offices of Seacoast National (excluding the main office) was approximately $32.6 million. Seacoast National’s branch offices are described as follows:
Jensen Beach, opened in 1977, is a free-standing facility located in the commercial district of a residential community contiguous to Stuart. The 1,920 square foot bank building and land are owned by Seacoast National. Improvements include three drive-in teller lanes and one drive-up ATM, as well as a parking lot and landscaping.
East Ocean Boulevard, was originally opened in 1978 and relocated in 1995. This office is located on the main thoroughfare between downtown Stuart and Hutchinson Island’s beachfront residential developments. This branch is housed in a four-story office condominium. The 2,300 square foot branch area on the first floor operates as a full service branch including five drive-in lanes and a drive-up ATM. The remaining 2,300 square feet on the ground floor was sold in June 1996, the third floor was sold in December 1995, and the second floor was sold in December 1998.
Cove Road, opened in late 1983, is conveniently located close to housing developments in the residential areas south of Stuart known as Port Salerno and Hobe Sound. South Branch Building, Inc., a subsidiary of Seacoast National, is a general partner in a partnership that entered into a long-term land lease for approximately four acres of property on which it constructed a 7,500 square foot building. Seacoast National leases the building and utilizes 3,450 square feet of the available space. Remaining space is sublet by Seacoast National to other business tenants. Seacoast National has improved the premises with three drive-in lanes, bank equipment, and furniture and fixtures, all of which are owned by Seacoast National. A drive-up ATM was added in early 1997.
Hutchinson Island, opened on December 31, 1984, is in a shopping center located on a coastal barrier island, close to numerous oceanfront condominium developments. In 1993, the branch was expanded from 2,800 square feet to 4,000 square feet and is under a long-term lease to Seacoast National. Seacoast National has improved the premises with bank equipment, a walk-up ATM and three drive-in lanes, all owned by Seacoast National.
Rivergate, opened October 28, 1985, originally occupied 1,700 square feet of leased space in the Rivergate Shopping Center, Port St. Lucie, Florida. Seacoast National moved the branch to larger facilities in the shopping center in April 1999. Furniture and bank equipment located in the prior facilities were moved to the new facility, which occupies approximately 3,400 square feet, with three drive-in lanes and a drive-up ATM. This office closed in the second quarter of 2008, simultaneous with the opening of Seacoast National’s new Westmoreland branch office (across the street from Rivergate). The Westmoreland office is situated in a stand alone building owned by Seacoast National with 4,468 square feet of space (2,821 square feet to be occupied by the branch, the remainder to be leased to tenants) on leased land, with three drive-in lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast
National. Located on the corner of a heavily traversed thoroughfare, the new location is more prominent than the existing store front location in the shopping plaza.
Wedgewood Commons, opened in April 1988, is located on an out-parcel under long term ground lease in the Wedgewood Commons Shopping Center, south of Stuart on U.S. Highway 1. The property consists of a 2,800 square foot building that houses four drive-in lanes, a walk-up ATM and various bank equipment, all of which are owned by Seacoast National. This office closed simultaneously in January 2009, with its relocation to a new stand alone building on a leased out parcel in the same shopping center, but with a greater presence on the corner of U.S. 1 and offering better ingress and egress. The new building owned by Seacoast National contains 5,477 square feet of space (2,836 square feet to be occupied by the branch, the remainder to be leased to tenants), with four drive-in lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all of which are owned by Seacoast National.
Bayshore, opened in September 1990, occupies 3,520 square feet of a 50,000 square foot shopping center located in Port St. Lucie. Seacoast National has leased the premises under a long-term lease agreement and has made improvements to the premises, including the addition of three drive-in lanes and a walk-up ATM, all of which are owned by Seacoast National.
Hobe Sound, acquired in December 1991 from the Resolution Trust Corporation, is a two-story facility containing 8,000 square feet and is centrally located in Hobe Sound. Of 2,800 square feet on the second floor, 1,225 square feet is utilized by local community organizations. Improvements include two drive-in teller lanes, a drive-up ATM, and equipment and furniture, all of which are owned by Seacoast National.
Fort Pierce, acquired in December 1991, is a 2,895 square foot facility owned by Seacoast National in the heart of Fort Pierce that has three drive-in lanes and a drive-up ATM. Equipment and furniture at this location are all owned by Seacoast National. In August 2007, Seacoast National sold this building, realizing a gain of $280,000. Under the terms of the sales agreement, Seacoast National obtained an accommodation whereby it could continue to occupy the location until construction of its new Ft. Pierce location was completed. The new location on U.S. 1 is situated on leased land with 5,477 square feet of space (2,836 square feet to be occupied by the branch, the remainder to be leased to tenants), with three drive-in lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all of which are owned by Seacoast National. The new location opened in October 2008.
Martin Downs, acquired in February 1992, is a 3,960 square foot bank building owned by Seacoast National located at a high traffic intersection in Palm City, an emerging commercial and residential community west of Stuart. Improvements include three drive-in teller lanes, a drive-up ATM, equipment and furniture.
Tiffany, acquired in May 1992 and owned by Seacoast National, is a two-story facility containing 8,250 square feet and is located on a corner of U.S. Highway 1 in Port St. Lucie offering excellent exposure in one of the fastest growing residential areas in the region. Seacoast National uses the second story space to house brokerage and loan origination personnel, a training facility and conference area. Three drive-in teller lanes, a walk-up ATM, equipment and furniture are utilized and owned by Seacoast National.
Vero Beach, acquired in February 1993 and owned by Seacoast National, is a 3,300 square foot bank building located in Vero Beach on U.S. Highway 1 at the intersection with 12th Street. Seacoast National holds a long-term ground lease on the property. Improvements include three drive-in teller lanes, a walk-up ATM, equipment and furniture, all of which are owned by Seacoast National.
Beachland, opened in February 1993, consists of 4,150 square feet of leased space located in a three-story commercial building on Beachland Boulevard, the main beachfront thoroughfare in Vero Beach, Florida. This facility has 2 drive-in teller lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. Building improvement at this office began in November 2008, with branch personnel moving to a separate leased facility in close proximity on Cardinal Drive while construction occurs.
Sandhill Cove, opened in September 1993, is a leased facility in an upscale life-care retirement community. The 135 square foot office is located within the community facilities on a 36-acre development in Palm City, Florida. This community contains approximately 168 private residences.
St. Lucie West, opened in November 1994 in a different location, was moved to the Renar Centre, located at 1100 SW St. Lucie West Blvd., Port St. Lucie, Florida, in June 1997, where Seacoast National leases 4,320 square feet on the first floor. The facility includes three drive-in teller lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment.
Mariner Square, acquired in April 1995, was a 3,600 square foot leased space located on the ground floor of a three-story office building located on U.S. Highway 1 between Hobe Sound and Port Salerno. Approximately 700 square feet of the space is sublet to a third party. The space occupied by Seacoast National had been improved to be a full service branch with two drive-in lanes, one serving as a drive-up ATM lane as well as a drive-in teller lane, all owned by Seacoast National. Seacoast National closed this location in of March 2008.
Sebastian, opened in May 1996, is located within a 174,000 square foot Wal-Mart Superstore on U.S. Highway 1 in northern Indian River County. The leased space occupied by Seacoast National totals 865 square feet. The facility has a walk-up ATM, owned by Seacoast National.
South Vero Square, opened in May 1997 in a 3,150 square foot building owned by Seacoast National on South U.S. Highway 1 in Vero Beach. The facility includes three drive-in teller lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Oak Point, opened in June 1997, occupies 12,000 square feet of leased space on the first and second floors of a 19,700 square foot three-story building in Indian River County. The office is in close proximity to Indian River Memorial Hospital and the peripheral medical community adjacent to the hospital. The facility includes three drive-in teller lanes, a walk-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. Seacoast National sublets 2,270 square feet of space on the second floor to a third party.
Route 60 Vero, opened in July 1997. Similar to the Sebastian office, this facility is housed in a Wal-Mart Superstore in western Vero Beach in Indian River County. The branch occupies 750 square feet of leased space and includes a walk-up ATM.
Sebastian West, opened in March 1998 in a 3,150 square foot building owned by Seacoast National. It is located at the intersection of Fellsmere Road and Roseland Road in Sebastian. The facility includes three drive-in teller lanes, a drive-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Jensen West, opened in July 2000, is located on an out parcel under a long-term ground lease on U.S. Highway 1 in northern Martin County. The facility consists of a 3,930 square foot building, with four drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM and furniture and equipment, all of which are owned by Seacoast National and are located on the leased property. This office replaced Seacoast National’s U.S. Highway 1 and Port St. Lucie Boulevard office, one-half mile north of this location, which originally opened in June 1997.
Ft. Pierce Wal-Mart, opened in June 2001, was another Wal-Mart Superstore location. The branch occupied 540 square feet of leased space and included a walk-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. This location was closed at the end of February 2008.
Port St. Lucie Wal-Mart, opened in October 2002, occupied 695 square feet of leased space in a Wal-Mart Superstore on U.S. Highway 1. The branch included a walk-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. This location was closed at the end of December 2007.
Jupiter, located on U.S. Highway 1 in Jupiter, Florida, this office opened as a loan production office in August 2002 and converted to a full-service branch during 2003. Commercial and residential lending personnel as well as certain executive offices were maintained at this location until May 2006 when our
PGA Blvd. location opened. In May 2006 this office was closed. Seacoast National’s obligation for 3,718 square feet of leased space under lease expired at the end of July 2007. No ATM or night depository existed for this location and all furniture and equipment at the branch has been removed.
Tequesta, opened in January 2003, is a 3,500 square foot building acquired and owned by Seacoast National located on U.S. Highway 1 on property subject to a long term ground lease. The Tequesta location has two drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Jupiter Indiantown, opened in December 2004, is a free standing office located on Indiantown Road, a prime thoroughfare in Jupiter, Florida. Seacoast National owns the building and leases the land. The building is 2,881 square feet and includes three drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Juno Beach was acquired during 2004. Seacoast National’s Jupiter Bluff’s branch was relocated to this facility at the end of December 2004, following renovation of the building. The building is 2,891 square feet, located on U.S. Highway 1 in Juno Beach, and includes three drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. We closed this location at the end of March 2008.
60 West was acquired in January 2005 from another financial institution. Seacoast National owns the land and the 2,500 square foot building at this location on Route 60 in Vero Beach. The office has three drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Northlake, is a 2,881 square foot location built on land owned by Seacoast National and opened in February 2005. Located on a bustling east / west thoroughfare in northern Palm Beach County, the facility includes 3 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Downtown Orlando, acquired in April 2005, is a 6,752 square foot leased facility occupying the ground floor of a six floor 62,100 square foot commercial office building on Orange Avenue in the heart of downtown Orlando. The location includes a walk-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Maitland/Winter Park, acquired in April 2005, occupies 4,536 square feet of leased space on the first floor of a three-story 32,975 square foot office building on Orlando Avenue. The location includes 3 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Longwood, acquired in April 2005, occupies 4,596 square feet of leased space on the first floor of a three-story 35,849 square foot office building on North State Road 434. The location includes 3 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
PGA Blvd., a signature Palm Beach County headquarters office opened in May 2006 in Palm Beach Gardens in northern Palm Beach County. Located across the street from the Gardens Mall on PGA Blvd., this leased office is in a high-rise office building. Seacoast National occupies a total of 13,454 square feet: 5,600 square feet on the first floor and 7,854 square feet on the second floor. The office has three drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM and night depository.
Offices acquired from Big Lake include branches in eight locations in central Florida. Some locations are leased, others owned. The eight locations are as follows:
South Parrott, acquired in April 2006, located in Okeechobee County, this office is comprised of an 8,232 square foot two-story building on approximately 3 acres of land, all owned by Seacoast National. The office was constructed in 1986 and has eight drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
North Parrott, acquired in April 2006, located in Okeechobee County, is a 3,920 square foot one-story building built in 2004 on 2 acres of land. The office and land are owned by Seacoast National. The office has 4 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Arcadia, acquired in April 2006, located in DeSoto County, is a 1,681 square foot one-story branch on approximately 1.5 acres, all owned by Seacoast National. Built in 1984, the office has 3 drive-up lanes, a walk-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. An expansion of this office adding 1,575 square feet was completed in April 2008.
Moore Haven, acquired in April 2006, located in Glades County, is a 640 square foot office. The office is under a lease, the initial term of which expired in 2003 and now is renewed annually in November. The office is a storefront location, with a walk-up ATM, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Wauchula, acquired in April 2006, located in Hardee County, is a 4,278 square foot office. It is leased under a 10-year lease that expires in 2008, with a renewal option for an additional five years to 2013. The office has 2 drive-up lanes, a walk-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Clewiston, acquired in April 2006, located in Hendry County, consists of a 5,661 square foot building that is 32 years old on 2 plus acres. The land and building are owned. It has 4 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
LaBelle, acquired in April 2006, located in Hendry County, is a one-story building consisting of 2,361 square feet on approximately one acre of land. The land and building are owned by Seacoast National. The building is 21 years old. The office has three drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Lake Placid, acquired in April 2006, located in Highlands County, is a 2,125 square foot building. The building and land (approximately one-half acre) are owned by Seacoast National. It has a drive-up window, a walk-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
Viera-The Avenues, which opened in February 2007, is Seacoast National’s first branch location in Brevard County, located in the Viera area. The branch is 5,999 square feet in size, with 3 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. This location is under a ground lease.
Middle River was opened in October 2007 in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida on U.S. 1. The location occupies 2,350 square feet of leased space on the first floor of a brand new one-story building. The location has a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. The location replaces 1,089 square feet of space acquired on a short term lease in early 2007 in Boca Raton, Florida, temporarily housing a new loan production office. All personnel are now located at the new full service branch location at the Middle River site.
Two de novo offices were opened in 2008:
Murrell Road, located in Brevard County, is Seacoast National’s second office in this market. The branch is a two-story office owned by Seacoast National with 9,041 square feet, of which 4,307 square feet on the first floor houses banking and loan offices and 4,264 square feet on the second floor is leased to outside parties. The branch has 3 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National. This location is under a ground lease and opened in April 2008.
Gatlin Boulevard, located in St. Lucie County, opened in March 2008 on an out parcel directly in front of a Sam’s Club and adjacent to a Wal-Mart, both presently open. The office is two stories, with 2,782 square feet on the first floor occupied by Seacoast National and 2,518 square feet on the second
floor available for leasing to outside parties. Seacoast National owns the land and building. The branch has 4 drive-up lanes, a drive-up ATM, a night depository, and furniture and equipment, all owned by Seacoast National.
For additional information regarding our properties, please refer to Notes G and K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Our 2008 Annual Report, certain portions of which are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to Part II, Item 8 of this report.
No new and planned offices are projected to open over the remainder of 2009.
Item 3.