ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our head office is located at Suite 308, 5455 152nd Street, Surrey, British Columbia, Canada V3S 5A5. These premises are comprised of approximately 3,378 square feet and are leased for a term expiring in March 2016.
The Company holds interests in the following four groups of mineral properties located in Alaska, U.S.A:
1.
Nolan Gold Project;
2.
Hammond Property (Slisco Bench);
3.
Ester Dome Properties;
4.
Eagle Creek Properties;
All of these properties are in the exploration stage and have no proven reserves as of November 30, 2010; with the exception of the Nolan property, which has a probable reserve but requires a more extensive feasibility study to ascertain if such probable reserve can be classified as a proven reserve.
The following disclosures incorporate the results of technical reports prepared during 2008 and 2009 by Thomas K. Bundtzen (“Bundtzen”/the “QP”), a third party independent qualified person and certified professional geologist, in accordance with the requirements of Canadian National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”). Investors may view the NI 43-101 reports at the Company’s website at www.silverado.com. The NI 43-101 reports provide disclosure regarding Silverado’s Alaska properties in accordance with NI 43-101. U.S. Investors are cautioned that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize the terms “indicated resources” and “inferred resources”.
The details of our interests in the four groups of mineral properties are described below.
NOLAN GOLD PROJECT
Based on completion of a preliminary feasibility study, dated January 1, 2009 and amended June 1, 2009, by the QP, our Nolan Gold and Antimony Lode Project has disclosed an economically viable mineral reserve. The preliminary feasibility study concluded that the resource estimates can be reclassified as a probable reserve. However, it requires a more extensive feasibility study to ascertain if such reserve can be classified as a proven reserve.
1. Location and Access
The majority of the properties comprising our Nolan Gold Project are adjacent to or within the Nolan Creek Valley, located approximately 8 miles northwest of the small town of Wiseman, and 175 air miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska in the southern foothills of the Brooks Range. Centrally located in the historic Koyukuk Mining District, Nolan Creek is a southerly flowing tributary to Wiseman Creek which flows southeasterly into the Middle Fork of the Koyukuk River. The Nolan Gold Project is accessible by the Elliott and the Dalton Highways, about 280 road miles north of Fairbanks Alaska. An all weather road connects the Nolan Creek Camp with the Dalton Highway and is suitable year-round for semi-tractors loaded with fuel and equipment. Air transportation is available by several commercial carriers from Fairbanks to the 4,500 ft long, state maintained Coldfoot Airport. The community of Coldfoot Alaska is about 15 miles south-southeast of Nolan, and has Alaska’s northernmost gas station, grocery, and public lodging. Coldfoot also has a weather station provided by the Alaska State Weather Service, and a post office.
All of the Nolan Gold Project properties are on federal land and located within the Wiseman B-1 Quadrangle. All of the mineral claims, with the exception noted below, are in the SE 1/4, Township 31 North, Range 12 West, the NE 1/4, Township 30 North, Range 12 West, and SW 1/4, Township 31 North, Range 11 West, Fairbanks Meridian.
In addition to the Nolan Creek properties, Silverado also has two smaller placer claim groups on Clara Creek and Marion Creek, located 1.5 and 3 miles north respectively of the town of Coldfoot, Alaska, situated near the Dalton Highway.
A map illustrating the location and access to the Nolan Gold Project is provided below:
2. Property Description and Ownership Interest
All of the mineral properties at the Nolan Gold Project are federal mining claims. Federal mining law allows for a locator to stake either a placer deposit or a lode deposit. Under the federal mining law, a 20 acre placer claim with the dimensions of 660 feet by 1,320 feet may be staked. Lode mining claims have dimensions of 600 ft by 1,500 ft.
As of November 30, 2010, Silverado’s Nolan Gold Project consist of 204 unpatented, federal placer mining claims covering approximately 4,080 acres in three non-contiguous groups, and 407 unpatented federal lode mining claims covering approximately 8,140 acres in one large contiguous group. Many of the 407 lode mining claims are superimposed over the placer mining claims. There has been no legal survey on any of the claims. These groups of properties are described in the next subsection.
The majority of the Nolan Creek mining claims are controlled by Silverado Gold Mines Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Silverado. Many of the claim names acquired or staked by Silverado have historic names such as Mary’s Bench and Workman’s Bench. Annual maintenance and holding fees for the federal placer and lode mining claims for the Nolan Gold Project totaled $85,540, which were paid to the Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”) as required.
(a) Nolan Gold Project Placer Property
Our Nolan Gold Project placer claim holdings are comprised of 197 contiguous unpatented federal placer mining claims located within the Nolan and Hammond River drainage systems. Silverado also holds 2 unpatented federal placer mining claims located on Marion Creek and 5 unpatented federal placer mining claims located on Clara Creek. Both Clara and Marion Creeks are left limit tributaries to the Middle Fork of the Koyukuk River. The Clara Creek and Marion Creek claims are located approximately 1.5 and 3 miles north of Coldfoot, Alaska, respectively, and are situated near the Dalton Highway. Silverado is the registered owner of all 204 placer claims. Of these claims, the Thomson’s Pup claims consist of 6 unpatented federal placer claims. The Company’s ownership in these claims is subject to a royalty of 3% of net profits on 80% of production payable to Frank Figlinski and Lyle R. Carlson.
Over the years Silverado has conducted operations on this property entitled: the Nolan Deep Channel, Smith Creek, Thomson’s Pup, Mary’s Bench, Swede Channel, Mary’s East, Archibald Creek, Mary’s East, Workman's Bench, Upper Nolan Creek, Dolney Bench, West Block, "3B1" on Nolan Creek, and Eureka Bench, et al. The main block of contiguous Nolan Placer claims cover approximately 6 square miles of creeks and fluvial terraces and uplands.
(b) Nolan Lode
The Nolan Lode claims are comprised of 407 unpatented federal lode claims. This number consists of the original 67 claims plus 241 claims added during 2006 and 99 claims added during 2007. Ownership of these federal lode claims is in the name of Silverado Gold Mines Inc. This area encompasses approximately 8,140 acres.
3. History of Operations
Placer mining on Nolan Creek and its tributaries was first recorded at about the turn of the last century. During the ensuing years and up to 1942, recoveries of approximately 120,000 oz. of placer gold were reported. This gold is well known for its coarse size and high fineness. The early miners mined Nolan Creek and its left limit tributaries, particularly Fay, Archibald and Smith creeks by surface methods on the upper areas and by underground methods in the lower reaches of the creeks when overburden became too deep. Shafts are found throughout these areas.
We first began acquiring placer claims on Nolan Creek in 1979. The following table summarizes gold production and gold recoveries by year from the Nolan properties since 1980.
YEAR
STATUS OF
OPERATIONS
NATURE OF
OPERATIONS
LOCATION
BCY MINED
Tr.Oz. GOLD
RECOVERED
RECOVERED
GRADE OZ/BCY
(Bank Cubic Yards)
1980-88 Test Mining During Exploration Surface Operations Archibald / Fay Creek 40,000est 2,400 * 0.060est
Production Surface Operations Thompson Pup 33,800 1,304 0.038
Production Underground Operations Mary’s Bench Underground 16,143 2,697 0.167
Production Surface Operations Eureka Bench Open Cut 29,300 5,733 0.196
Production Surface Operations Phase 3 Open Cut 22,285 2,394 0.107
Production Underground Operations 3B1 Underground 12,991 1,006 0.077
Production Surface Operations West Block Open Cut 18,988 1,305 0.069
Production Surface Operations Mary’s Bench hydraulic 0.045
Test Mining During Exploration Surface Operations Dolney Bench Surface 5,042 0.025
Test Mining During Exploration Surface Operations Archibald Creek Surface 5,947 0.022
Test Mining During Exploration Underground Operations Swede Channel Underground 4,575 0.136
Test Mining During Exploration Surface Operations Workmans Bench Open Cut 5,580 0.020
Test Mining During Exploration Surface Operations Workmans Bench Open Cut 14,919 0.013
Test Mining During Exploration Un derg ro und Operations for Nolan Deep Channel; Surface Operations for Wooll Bench, Mary’s Bench and other Nolan Deep Channel, Wooll, Mary’s Bench, Other
30,279 0.015
Test Mining During Exploration Underground Operations Swede Channel Underground 6,843 0.137
Test Mining During Exploration Underground Operations Swede Channel and Mary’s East Underground 14,092 3,726.8 0.264
2008 and 2009 Exploration for Lode deposits Only Exploration for Lode deposits Only Diamond Core Drill Programs (73 holes drilled since 2007) N/A N/A N/A
TOTALS
261,384 23,172.8 0.089
*Includes 1,320 ounces produced by lessee.
We have not achieved profitability in any of the years during which we have carried out test mining activities at the Nolan Gold Project. We did not carry out any gold recovery operations during 2004 and 2005 as we focused on lode exploration on the property, as opposed to test placer mining activities. We also did not carry out any gold recovery operations during the past three years (2008-2010), as we focused on the lode exploration program.
During the winter of 2005, Silverado began an underground exploration and development program on the Swede Channel. Continuing into 2006, Silverado installed about 900 feet of exploration drifts by underground tunneling methods into the Swede Channel. Prior bulk sampling had shown the channel to contain gold in the basal gravels, so the project was designed to obtain a large bulk sample from the tunnel being advanced into the channel. The 2005-2006 winter stockpile contained 8,896 LCY of gravel material, and was processed between June 28th through July 20th of 2006, yielding 939.07 troy ounces of gold nuggets and dust. The Swede portal was re-opened in early November of 2006, and gravel extraction on the remaining sections of the Swede Channel continued until its completion by the middle of January 2007. A total of 8,963 LCY of gravel material was stockpiled from the remaining Swede Channel.
In early January 2007, crews installed a portal into Mary’s East, and began an underground drift into the Mary’s East deposit. The Mary’s East project was completed at the end of March 2007 and 9,357 LCY of gravel material was stockpiled from this project.
The 2006-2007 winter stockpile contained 18,320 LCY (Swede Channel and Mary’s East combined) of gravel material, and was processed from June through July of 2007 at the existing sluice plant location, yielding 2,811.74 troy ounces of gold nugget gold and over 207 pounds of concentrate that contained gold particles smaller than 1/4 inch in size. The fine concentrate yielded 915.06 troy ounces of gold (30% gold), which when combined with 2811.74 troy ounces of nugget gold recovered in 2007 totals 3726.80 troy ounces. Also, the fine concentrates yielded 65.10 troy ounces of silver or 2.15% silver.
4. Present Condition of the Property
We have spent approximately $35,869,000 over the last 30 years acquiring, exploring and undertaking test mining activities and test exploration on the Nolan Gold Project. Up to November 30, 2010, we have completed 851 placer drill holes with a cumulative total of 49,370 feet of drilling. About 219 of those drill holes were completed along the frozen gold bearing deep channel of the Nolan Creek known as the Nolan Deep Channel. We have also completed 73 lode exploration drill holes with a cumulative total of 21,144 feet of diamond core drilling.
We also have a gold recovery facility located at the Nolan Gold Project that is used to recover gold from gravel that we extract during test mining activities as part of our exploration of the Nolan Gold Project. This gold recovery facility was modernized in 2006. Our gold recovery facility incorporates nugget traps, hydraulic riffles, classification and gravity concentration processes in order to remove gold present in gravel material. The gold recovery facility has a processing rate of 75 cubic yards of gravel material per hour. The gold facility can only be operated in the late spring to early fall months when free-flowing water is available to operate the plant.
On May 17, 2007, Silverado entered into a 10-year 'shared well agreement' with Sukakpak, Inc., an Alaskan corporation, through which Silverado designed, drilled and installed at its expense a high-capacity water well in the nearby rural community of Wiseman, Alaska, to serve both as a source of high-quality drinking water, and a high-volume source of sample processing water. In addition, Silverado upgraded its Nolan Gold Project drinking water storage facility to a series of three fully-enclosed 2,000-gallon plastic storage tanks, and also a modern multi-modular kitchen and dining facility. Silverado also expended approximately $85,400 for the design and installation of a state-of-the-art 'fast activated sludge treatment' (FAST®) arctic-capable wastewater treatment facility designed by Lifewater Engineering Company of Fairbanks, Alaska that is capable of serving the treatment needs of up to 24 personnel, and that treats the camp's domestic wastewater to such a high quality that it can be discharged directly to the land surface. The design, construction and installation of the wastewater facility was undertaken under the approval of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC).
Currently we have a fully functioning all season enclosed 23 man camp (Nolan Camp) with three functioning offices with computers and internet access. The camp has a STW treatment plant for sewage and graywater treatment. Camp site also has a large mechanics shop for working on heavy equipment such as backhoes and bulldozers. The camp also has multiple ADEC approved containments with tanks capable of storing 30,000 gallons of diesel fuel, and a peripheral explosives storage area. The camp also has an abundance of heavy equipment for excavating and road maintenance. In 2009, upgrades to the camp facility were done in preparation of a crew of mine personnel that would be needed to collect an underground bulk sample of gold-antimony ore. One key upgrade was the installation of a larger diesel generator to supply more electricity to the Nolan camp.
Exploration Objectives for the Nolan Gold Project
Our exploration plans are to expand our reserves and resources on Workman’s Bench and further define gold deposits in order to provide a basis for the assessment of the feasibility of future additional test mining activities at the Nolan project. We are currently undertaking an extensive geological exploration program on the Nolan Gold Project. The program includes drilling, as well as the review of geological, geochemical and geophysical data. We are currently preparing for the development stage on our Nolan Lode and Antimony Project. The Company has acquired a permit to collect a 1,000 cu yd bulk sample of quartz-antimony-gold from the mineralized zone in the Workman’s Bench portion of the Solomon Shear Zone. We have also completed a preliminary feasibility study effective January 1, 2009 and amended June 1, 2009. The overall objectives of our exploration program are as follows:
1.
To continue to expand reserves on the antimony-gold veined southwestern extent of the Solomon Shear Zone as well as northeast through Pringle Bench to the Hillside area, a distance of approximately 6000 feet where, drilling, trenching, geology, geochemistry, ground and air borne geophysics all when combined, indicate a continuation of the ore zone or more lode deposits on the Nolan Gold project that could be the source of our placer gold deposits. We will continue to use our new systematic and scientific approach utilizing both GPS and GIS for interpretation of our spatial data.
2.
To continue seeking capital investment to allow the successful advancement of our Nolan Gold and Antimony Project to the development stage and mining. We will use the Bundtzen preliminary feasibility study as a road map (guideline) for the project to move forward to the development and mining stage and continue to follow the recommendations of our QP which includes a program designed to upgrade from probable reserves to proven reserves in the Workman’s and Pringle Bench areas, and continue exploration along the strike length of the Solomon Shear Zone, advancing the drilling program northeast to the Hillside Zone. Also, as per our QP’s recommendations, we will involve continued aggressive permitting, fulfilling the requirements of our regulators in an expedient manner.
We have been working on interpreting the geology of the Nolan area since 1979, when we first acquired the project. Our latest and most extensive exploration program began in early 2007 and was directed at improving our placer deposit definition and discovering potential lode sources of the placer gold. Our exploration geologists and mining engineers have worked to move this objective forward. Our exploration efforts have included the analysis of geophysical data, geochemical sampling results, Company records and analysis provided by government mineral investigation efforts and publications as well as the trenching and exploration drilling of target areas. The exploration strategy and focus has changed slightly since the beginning of 2007, and is discussed below.
Exploration Strategy and Focus
The current focus of the Company is the advancement toward the development stage of our Nolan Gold and Antimony Project, especially along the southwestern end of the Solomon Shear Zone in the Workman’s Bench Area. The Company is in a transitional phase between exploration and development/mining.
The current exploration strategy involves a complete systematic approach that combines placer gold test mining data, soil geochemical data, geophysical data, percussion drilling data and diamond drill core data for the further delineation of potential lode sources for gold and antimony in the areas known as Pringle and Workman’s Bench. Our strategy also involves performing studies in preparation for the development & mining stage for the antimony-gold deposit underlying the Workman’s Bench. These studies include but are not limited to geotechnical studies of the bedrock for underground engineering and design purposes, additional hydrologic studies proximal to our planned underground workings, as well as collecting additional bulk samples of stibnite-gold vein material for larger scale milling and processing tests, and various environmental baseline studies.
The Company plans to drill more diamond core drill holes for additional estimates of reserves. We will continue to take advantage of the historic roads and trails on our property to use mobile heavy equipment for digging trenches into the bedrock for more accurate geologic interpretation and moving other mobile equipment like our newly acquired diamond core drill.
Prior to 2007, Silverado’s exploration efforts focused more on placer gold test mining activities , with only minor emphasis on drilling the bedrock to test for lode gold potential. Between 1993 and 2006, the Company drilled 14 percussion-reverse circulation (RC) drill holes totaling 3,695 ft. into bedrock and collected 727 assays for gold and antimony mineralization. The RC drilling indicated gold and antimony mineralized quartz veins . Although the data from the RC drilling indicated desired mineralization, it did not allow for the determination of the true width of the veins or other pertinent insitu information as the RC holes were used primarily to gather placer gold data. The recent focus of exploring for a lode gold and antimony deposit involves the use of a diamond core drill which allows the geologist to make determinations of the true width of mineralized veins and the relationship of the veins to other primary geologic structures. The diamond drill core allows for more accurate analysis of grade and interpretation of style of mineralization and timing of mineralization relative to other structures in the rock. To date, the Company has drilled a total of 73 diamond core drill holes totaling 21,444 feet during lode exploration since 2007.
5. Geology
The Nolan Area properties are located in the Brooks Range of northern Alaska. Regionally, the area is underlain by a series of metasedimentary rocks of the Coldfoot subterrain and Hammond subterrain of the Arctic Alaska terrain. The metasedimentary rocks have been assigned a Middle to Upper Devonian age. During Late to Early Cretaceous time, the Middle Devonian metasedimentary rocks of the Coldfoot subterrain were thrust northward onto the Middle to Upper Devonian metasedimentary rocks of the Hammond Subterrain. This is represented by a large thrust belt in the Nolan area and resulted in regional metamorphism of the continental rocks that were overridden.
The property area is underlain by gray-black phyllite, black slate and metasiltstone, gray-black and brown slate, brown micaceous schist and phyllite, gray-black micaceous schist, gray green to black muscovite schist that locally contains abundant pyrite and arsenopyrite, and banded quartzite interbedded with chloritic quartzite and quartz mica schist.
The valley bottoms and side hills are mantled by a heavy cover of glacial outwash and lake bottom sediments. Depth of overburden varies from a very few feet on the upper slopes to tens to hundreds of feet in the lower valley bottoms on the claims. Deeper areas of cover are permanently frozen. There have been four periods of glaciation on the Nolan properties and the placer gold distribution has been variously affected by the glaciation.
The placer deposits are of three types:
1.
Shallow placers concentrated in present stream and river valleys;
2.
Placer gold concentrated on bedrock in deeply incised bedrock channels that have been covered by ten to hundreds of feet of gravel and organic material; and
3.
Placer deposits concentrated on benches lying anywhere from 10 to 400 feet above present stream levels. These bench gravels were deposited when streams were flowing at higher levels relative to present levels due to damming by glacial ice.
Placer gold, lode gold and antimony are the main type of mineralization of interest on the property. We are currently exploring for a lode source for the placer gold. Known gold-bearing lodes identified on the Nolan Lode properties consist of stibnite-bearing quartz veins, and quartz veins containing free gold, which fill fractures cutting phyllite and metasiltstones.
Analysis of obtained airborne geophysical data identified a linear resistivity low that has been named the “Solomon Shear trend”. The resistivity low is coincident with a geochemical anomaly for gold, antimony, arsenic and other indicator minerals. This anomaly trends sub-parallel to Nolan Creek along the east side from south of Smith Creek into the Hammond River drainage. Immediately east of this trend lies a second sub parallel resistivity low also identified by airborne geophysics and showing similar characteristics to the “Solomon Shear Trend”.
The Company has identified a new zone with anomalous gold mineralization, which has been named “the Fortress”. The Fortress area is part of an east-west trending deformation zone that is overlain by strong arsenic and gold in soil anomalies, which are up to over 1,500 feet in length. We will continue our exploration program in 2010 with the objective of identifying mineralization of commercial significance along this zone.
We have discovered a number of new areas that contain placer gold mineralization on the Nolan property that are too loosely defined under NI 43-101 to allow the mineralization to be categorized as a resource. Additional exploration drilling and testing may bring these mineralized areas up to a higher level of confidence and thus a higher category which could be included in the total gold inventory of the property. There is no assurance however that this upgrade will take place.
6. Nolan Gold and Antimony Project Mineral Reserves and Resource Estimates
The following resource estimates were performed by Thomas K. Bundtzen (“Bundtzen”/the “QP”) of Pacific Rim Geological Consulting Inc. Bundtzen is an independent third party mining consultant who is an AIPG Qualified Person. The Company requested a preliminary feasibility study in September 2008. Based on the 2008 feasibility study, the QP concluded that the lode gold and antimony indicated resources underlying Workman’s Bench could be converted to a probable reserve.
For a complete summary of the data used and the methods of determination of the lode resource estimates, readers are encouraged to view the recent 43-101 report by Bundtzen, effective January 1, 2009, which is posted on the Company’s website and on EDGAR and SEDAR. The NI 43-101 Technical Report by Bundtzen that was disclosed on January 1, 2009 was amended June 1, 2009 (the “technical report” or “report”). These resource estimates are based off of an investigation that was not within the current mineral reserve block and as such the grades and tonnages of the probable mineral reserve have not changed.
General Note Regarding Estimates
The following information should be considered in connection with our estimates for Workman’s Bench, which we are disclosing in accordance with applicable SEC standards and regulations:
Assumed Prices of US $1100/oz for gold and US $5.00/lb for antimony.
D tunnel of the Workman’s Bench A vein and using gravity and water recovery systems only).
Estimated Operating Costs of US $375/ton, based on operation of a 92 ton per day underground mine.
A cutoff grade of 4% antimony was used in our analysis. A 4% cutoff grade should be regarded as 4% antimony equivalent. No cutoff grade was used for gold, as antimony was the primary commodity being examined, and none of the resource polygons contained less than 0.05 oz/ton gold.
The reserve estimates for each of the three zones (A, B, and West) were determined by drill hole intercepts of each zone as well as channel samples of the zone from the underground workings. The QP used a polygonal estimation of grade by compositing sample assay information taken within designated widths and lengths of mineralized zones, giving consideration only for intercepts with an antimony value greater than 4% antimony (7% stibnite). A total of 124 intercepts of antimony-quartz-gold were assayed from the 41 diamond core drill holes for the three zones. Considering the specific gravity of pure stibnite is 4.52 and quartz and schist gangue are 2.70 and 2.66 respectively, The QP used a tonnage factor of 8.2 cubic ft per ton (massive stibnite would be 7.1 cubic ft per ton).
Polygonal Calculations of Tons, Grades and Amounts of Antimony and Gold
Readers are cautioned that the following estimates are under the category of a probable reserve and not a proven reserve, which requires a higher degree of feasibility study. These values are based off of a preliminary feasibility study, which is not the same as a legal feasibility study.
The following tables summarize the polygon calculations used by the QP to determine the probable mineral reserves for the Workman's Bench gold and antimony deposit, effective January 1, 2009. The data below is based off of 2007 and 2008 diamond core drilling data. As well as channel samples and specific vein samples collected from our underground workings that were collected by the QP in 2008. Detailed maps, outlining the polygons used in the probable reserve estimates, are shown in the QP’s NI 43-101 technical report (feasibility study), effective January 1, 2009, as amended June 1, 2009.
Polygonal Probable Reserve Calculations of Workman’s Bench ‘A’ Zone, Nolan Creek, Alaska
Polygonal Probable Reserves Calculations for ‘B’ Zone, Workman’s Bench, Nolan Creek Area, Alaska
Polygonal probable reserve Calculation for ‘West’ Zone, Workman’s Bench, Nolan Creek area, Alaska
Total Probable Lode Mineral Reserves, for Workman’s Bench, Nolan Creek Area “A”. “B” and “West” Zones
Readers are cautioned that the following estimates are under the category of a probable reserve and they are not a proven reserve, which requires a higher degree of feasibility study. These values are based off of a preliminary feasibility study, which is not the same as a legal feasibility study.
Notes:
-
Rounding may result in some discrepancies.
-
No processing recovery factors have been applied to these reserve figures.
-
The unit ton refers to short tons.
-
Cut-off grade is 4.0% Sb ‘equivalent’, which refers to the combined values of gold plus antimony expressed in terms of antimony alone
-
Effective date of the estimate is January 1, 2009. The 2009 exploration program was not involved with the current reserve block and as such did not affect the grade or tonnages listed.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Resources
The following table uses the term ‘inferred resources’. Silverado advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations (under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize this term. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
Silverado's inferred lode mineral resources, Nolan Creek area
Notes:
- The effective date of these resources is January 1, 2009; amended June 1st, 2009
- Rounding may result in some discrepancies.
- No processing recovery factors have been applied to these resource figures.
- The unit ton refers to short tons.
- Cut-off grade is 4.0% Sb ‘equivalent’, which is the combined values of gold plus antimony expressed in terms of antimony
HAMMOND PROPERTY (SLISCO BENCH)
1. Location and Access
Our Hammond property is located approximately 8 miles north of Wiseman, and 175 air miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska in the foothills of the Brooks Range in an area known as the Koyukuk Mining District. The Hammond property is located approximately three miles northeast of the Nolan Gold Project.
The Hammond property is accessible by the Trans-Alaska Pipeline road about 280 road miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska. An all-weather 4x4 road connects Hammond to the pipeline road.
A map illustrating the location and access to the Hammond property is provided above under the heading Nolan Gold Project.
2. Ownership Interest
Silverado leases 24 federal placer mining claims and 36 federal lode mining claims from Alaska Mining Company, Inc. (“Alminco”).
As of November 30, 2010, we were in arrears of required mineral property claims and option payments of $550,000 and therefore our rights to the property were adversely affected. We are currently re-negotiating the terms and conditions of the Alminco agreement with Alminco. Alminco has confirmed that our mineral claims and options are in good standing on the understanding we will use our best efforts to pay the minimum royalty payments, including the payments that are in arrears, when business conditions permit; however there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate the terms and conditions of the Alminco agreement.
3. History of Operations
In 1993 we acquired the group of placer gold mining claims overlying the Slisco Bench, and located along the right limit of the Hammond River. The Hammond River drainage has been the subject of intense exploration since the early 1900s. Poor exposures, difficult terrain, and deep overburden confronted the first explorers and early miners in the Hammond River region. Those miners who worked with persistence succeeded for the most part in developing small-scale projects constrained in scope by the inadequacies of their mechanical equipment, and the lack of technical knowledge and financial support. Nevertheless, because of the work done by these early explorers, the Hammond River has produced approximately eighty thousand ounces of placer gold, including the second largest gold nugget ever discovered in Alaska - a nugget weighing more than 135 ounces.
The Bench was first staked by Martin Slisco, and prospected by hand methods since the 1930’s, but no commercial production was recorded. During the late 1970s, placer gold, including some nuggets characteristic of the Koyukuk Mining District were recovered by open cut prospecting and bulk sampling from a prospect pit at the northern end of the bench. The prospect pit was open to bedrock and with a nominal 20 feet of overburden exposed, indications were favourable for defining a large open pit mine-able placer gold deposit. The surface topography indicates the bench could extend up to 4,500 feet southerly from the prospect pit. Beyond that distance the bench is intersected by the present Hammond River Channel where past and ongoing erosion has removed all surface expression of the bench.
Below that intersection, the bench has been eroded and during 1995, Silverado completed a Phase I drill program, completing 64 drill holes to the south of the prospect pit. Analysis of the data from the Phase I program determined that the Slisco Bench surface topography conceals an ancient gold bearing channel. Depths of drilling to bedrock were much deeper than anticipated. Several hundred feet south of the prospect pit bedrock depths are about 60 feet below surface, increasing to more than 230 feet in depth at a distance of 1,200 feet south of the prospect pit. The gravel layer at bedrock was found to contain encouraging and sometimes, significant placer gold content at channel bottom intercepts.
In 2006, Silverado commenced drilling along the Slisco deep channel which completed additional 39 drill holes with a total footage of 4,782 feet. This exploration work was done to define the length of the Slisco deep channel. Phase one and Phase two drilling, sampling, and sample analysis of a total of 103 drill holes, has served to delineate the Slisco deep channel for a total length of 1800 lineal feet. Surface topography indicates that the channel could cover a length of up to 4,500 feet.
4. Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
A drilling program is planned to explore the remaining 2,700 feet extending south from the present known location of the Slisco deep channel. Additional in-fill drilling will be necessary along the length of the channel, as well as potential gold bearing tributaries, and other areas by drilling fences or lines of drill holes with close hole spacing across the channel bottom. These holes will be necessary to ascertain the width of the channel, and to collect adequate sample data at close spacing, for mining feasibility studies. After completing the Phase one and Phase two drilling, data showed the channel to be narrower than the surface topography indicated and bedrock depths increased to the south. Present known maximum depth is 230 feet. We presently estimate that as many as several hundred additional drill holes would be necessary to fully define and evaluate the Slisco deep channel. The Slisco deep channel is presently in a state of ongoing exploration, and there is no camp, production facilities, or equipment located on the property. Currently, there is no power supply to the Hammond property. All support for ongoing and planned work on the property is currently provided from the Nolan Creek Camp.
5. Geology
The primary areas of geological interest on the Hammond Property are the placer gold deposits, which are similar to the placer gold deposits present on the adjoining Nolan Gold Project. Geologically, the Slisco Bench gold-placer deposit is a deeply buried, permanently frozen, ancient and now abandoned river channel of the Hammond River. Subsequent to the geologic processes that forced the Hammond River to abandon its channel at Slisco Bench, glacial and peri-glacial processes (processes acting upon permanently frozen terraines ) buried the gold-bearing gravel of the Slisco deposit with as much as 230 feet of frozen sedimentary detritus. The deep thickness of frozen overburden identified probably prohibits the economical application of traditional open-pit methodologies. Underground placer gold recovery methods which we have utilized extensively would probably be used to remove the gold-bearing gravel.
Mineral investigations by our geologists in conjunction with a federal study of mineral resources in the area have revealed the presence of west-north-westerly striking gold bearing hydro-thermal quartz veins on the property. Those veins, in conjunction with a north-easterly trending shear zone are thought to have contributed, at least in part, to the placer gold found on the property.
ESTER DOME PROJECT
The Ester Dome Project encompasses all of our optioned properties on Ester Dome.
1. Location and Access
Access to the property is provided by the paved Ester Dome road and a well-maintained gravel road. The main line of the Alaska Railroad passes by the west perimeter of the property and a high capacity electrical line carrying power to the Fort Knox mill passes 300 feet below the Grant Mill on the property. A map illustrating the location and access to the Ester Dome Project is provided below:
2. Ownership Interest
The Ester Dome property is comprised of 52 state mineral claims and 1 unpatented federal mineral claim. The claims are not all contiguous in that there are 5 separate blocks of claims. Silverado Gold Mines Inc. is the registered owner of all claims. The total area of all claims equals approximately 2.5 square miles and all claims are valid. There has been no legal survey on the claims. There are three separate agreements covering these 53 claims on the Ester Dome property.
(a)
Grant Mine
The 26 State mineral claims called the Grant Mine claims are covered by an option to purchase agreement with Mr. Roger Burggraf dated October 6, 1978, as amended in October 1997. Our ownership interest is subject to the payment of 15% of net profits until $2,000,000 has been paid, and 3% of net profits thereafter. Our minimum work requirements are $15,000 per year. In December of 1997, for the purpose of facilitating an agreement with Placer Dome U.S. Inc. and in consideration for us making a payment of $20,000, the conditional purchase and sale agreement was amended to reduce the royalty payments to 3% of net profits as defined in the agreement. The owner of the claims has confirmed our agreement is in good standing.
(b)
St. Paul / Barelka
The 22 State mineral claims called the St. Paul / Barelka claims are covered by a purchase agreement with Don May and Paul Barelka dated May 12, 1979. Our ownership interest is subject to the payment of 15% of net profits until $2,000,000 (inflation indexed from 1979) has been paid and 3% of net profits thereafter.
(c)
Dobb’s
The remaining 4 state mineral claims and 1 federal mineral claim called the Dobbs claims are covered by a purchase agreement with Mr. G. Dobbs dated November 6, 1984, as amended on August 4, 1996. Our ownership interest is subject to the payment of 15% of net profits until $1,500,000 has been paid and 3% of net profits thereafter. Our minimum work requirements are $1,500 per year. Access to Dobbs is the same route as St. Paul / Barelka. Our lease on this property is for 10 years, beginning in 1984, with five-year renewals thereafter. The owner of the claims has confirmed our agreement is in good standing.
3. History of Operations
The Ester Dome property first became known as a result of the discovery of placer gold in the creeks draining Ester Dome in about 1902. By 1909, approximately 1.5 million oz. had been mined from alluvial deposits. Ultimately, approximately 4 million ounces of placer gold have been mined from creeks draining Ester Dome.
Shortly after the discovery of placer gold, lode claims were staked on quartz veins discovered on Ester Dome. By 1912, four stamp mills were operating in the area.
(a) Grant Mine
Work at the Grant Mine, on the eastern flank of Ester Dome, was initiated in about 1928 with the sinking of shafts to bedrock to attempt to locate buried alluvial gold. This work, while it did not locate alluvial gold, did reveal quartz rubble near bedrock containing free gold. Mr. Grant, the claim owner, sunk two shafts through about 80’ of loess (silt) cover and by 1931 had reportedly mined about 600 tons from the newly discovered Irishman Vein. This work was all completed from the only levels established, the 50, 100 and 150- foot levels. Mr. Roger Burggraf purchased the claims from Grant’s heirs in 1973 and deepened the shaft to the 200-foot level. This work revealed a new vein, the O’Dea vein which has eclipsed the Irishman vein in importance. Burggraf completed limited development on the Irishman vein and the O’Dea vein during the next 5 years, and in 1978 entered into a lease option agreement with Silverado.
Over the subsequent 8 years up to 1986, we completed an extensive surface exploration and underground development program as well as test milling the underground development muck from work on the O’Dea structure, in a small (approximately 50 tons per day) gravity mill, during 1980 - 1982. In 1984, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Aurex Inc., a subsidiary of Marubeni America Corporation to further explore and develop the Grant Mine plus a larger area of interest around the mine. Aurex withdrew from the joint venture at the end of 1985 and the mill was shut down in Jan. 1986. A total of approximately 22,000 tons of gold bearing rock were mined from the O’Dea structure during the period 1980 to January 1986, yielding 4,090 ounces of gold.
When Aurex became involved in the joint venture, a decision was made to construct a 230 ton per day gravity / cyanide mill to treat the expanded resource that had been outlined on the O’Dea structure above the 200’ level. This mill and related support facilities were constructed by Tri-Con Mining Inc. for Silverado using a design provided by Melis Consulting Engineers Ltd. The completed mill was commissioned in October 1985 and was shut down in January 1986. During the short mill run, the plant operated above design capacity. Lower feed grades than had been forecast plus other underground problems caused Aurex to elect to withdraw from the project and a premature shutdown of the facility.
During the period 1987 - 1989, we decided to open pit mine the Ethel - Elmes structures, located a short distance from the mill facility on the Dobbs claims adjacent to the Grant Mine. This mining operation generated approximately 71,620 tons of gold bearing material. Combined with the previously mined stockpile from the O’Dea vein, (11,000 tons), and material from another source (Silver Dollar), the total tonnage processed amounted to 111,852 tons.
The total tonnage processed through the Grant mill up to 1989 amounts to 111,852 tons with a total of 11,215 oz. of gold produced for an average calculated recovered grade of 0.10 oz/ton. Gold recoveries from the Grant Mine are summarized as follows:
YEAR DRY TONS MILLED RECOVERED OZ. GOLD RECOVERED GRADE
1980 - 1981(1) 4,170 1,424 0.341
1985 -1986 7,069 1,372 0.193
1987 - 1989 100,586 8,419 0.083
TOTALS 111,852 11,215 0.10
(1) This material was processed through a 20 ton per day pilot plant prior to the construction of the Grant Mill.
We did not make a profit from our operations at the Grant Mine during any of the above periods during which we achieved gold recoveries.
In June of 1990, ACNC (American Copper and Nickel Company) entered into a joint venture with us on the Grant Mine claims and a larger area of Ester Dome. This included the Dobbs, and St Paul / Barelka properties.
On the Grant Mine property, ACNC completed the drilling of 10 diamond drill holes and fourteen wedge cuts on the O’Dea -Irishman system totaling 10,097’. This work confirmed the previous drill grades and intercept width encountered by Silverado and helped to further define the O’Dea structure.
(b)St. Paul / Barelka
The St. Paul / Barelka claims have undergone a significant amount of exploration since the early 1980s when they were first acquired by us. The early work was in the form of electromagnetic surveys, geochemical soil sampling, trenching and diamond and percussion drilling. Most recently, in 199 1-1992, ACNC completed 9 diamond drill holes and 3 rotary reverse circulation holes. Subsequent work in 1996-1997 amounted to significant trenching and 91 drill holes focusing on the St Paul structure which had been partially defined by our previous work.
(c) Dobb’s
The Dobb’s property contains the Ethel - Elmes vein system and structure which had been located in the first work and prospecting that took place on Ester Dome in the early 1900’s. Exploration in the 1980’s by us revealed a mineralized shear zone up to 25’ wide containing high grade quartz veins and veinlets. This was the structure mined in 1987 - 1989 which generated approximately 71,620 tons of gold bearing material. Combined with the previously mined stockpile from the O’Dea vein, (11,000 tons), a total of approximately 82,620 tons were mined and milled during 1988 - 1989 producing 7,362 oz. of gold.
4. Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration (a) Grant Mine-O’Dea Vein:
The Grant Mine operations, including camp, buildings, machine shops and related equipment, were constructed in the late 1980s. Most of the mill and equipment are in operating condition but upgrades would be required. The mill has remained inactive since February 1989. The plant and equipment cost us $2,076,780. This amount has been written down to $nil on our audited financial statements. Power to the Grant Mine operations is provided by diesel powered generators located on site. Commercial power transmission lines cross through the property, and could provide power to the facilities for any future operations. Auxiliary power to the Grant Mine operations will be provided by diesel powered generators located on site. During fiscal 2007, our work on the property was limited to assessment work. We plan to maintain claim rental payments for the current fiscal year and to continue with assessment work. The Grant Mine Tailings Pond is near capacity, and currently the Company has a third-party engineering firm working on a closure plan for the decommissioning and reclamation of the old pond. A new mine operation would need a new tailings pond constructed.
If gold prices remain strong, we may re-commence exploratory drilling on our Ester Dome properties with the objective of increasing our database of geological information on these properties.
(a) May (St. Paul) / Barelka:
The St. Paul property is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no plant or equipment located on the St. Paul property. Currently, there is no power supply to the St. Paul property. We have no plans at this time to do any work other than as required for annual claims maintenance and when we do there is no guarantee the work will present economic viability for this deposit.
(b)Dobbs:
The Dobbs property is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no plant or equipment located on the Dobbs property. Currently, there is no power supply to the Dobbs property. We have no plans at this time to do any work other than as required for annual claims maintenance.
5. Geology
The Fairbanks Mining District is in the northwest part of the Yukon - Tanana metamorphic complex. This region, referred to variably as Yukon Crystalline Terrain, Yukon Cataclastic Complex or Yukon Tanana Terrain is an enormous tract of multiple deformed and metamorphosed rocks occupying much of east central Alaska and adjoining Yukon Territory.
The Fairbanks District is underlain by three metamorphosed stratigraphic packages all in apparent thrust fault contact. From oldest to youngest these are: (1) Chatanika Terrain, a Precambrian eclogite-garnet-amphibolite unit exposed on the northern edge of the district; (2) Fairbanks Schist, a dominant lithology and host to the majority of gold occurrences in the district, comprised of late Proterozoic to early Paleozoic sedimentary and volcanic rocks metamorphosed to greenschist facies; and (3) Chena River Sequence, an early to mid Paleozoic unit metamorphosed to lower amphibolite facies.
Stocks and dikes are common in the Fairbanks District, varying from diorite to granite. In recent years they have been conclusively linked to significant gold mineralizing systems. Mid Cretaceous ages have been determined for two of the stocks. Lamprophyre dikes are locally present in the district.
The Ester Dome property is underlain by late Proterozoic to early Paleozoic sedimentary and volcanic rocks that have been metamorphosed to greenschist facies. Dominant lithologies are quartz-mica schist, graphitic phyllite and micaceous quartzite, with lesser chlorite schist and calcareous schist. The schists are locally intruded by fine grained granitic to dioritic dikes and sills with minor porphyritic phases.
Four main structural patterns that crosscut stratigraphy and folding are present on Ester Dome. The most prominent is northeast trending shearing that is probably related to northeast thrusting in the region. Most of the past and present exploration has taken place along mineralized veins and shears parallel to this trend.
6. Estimates of Indicated and Inferred Resources
We have not established any commercially viable reserves on any of our properties that comprise the Ester Dome Project.
General Note Regarding Estimates
The following information should be considered in connection with our estimates for the Ester Dome properties, which we are disclosing in accordance with applicable SEC standards and regulations:
Assumed Price of US $1,100/oz for gold.
Process Recovery Rates of 94%
Estimated Operating Costs of $130 per ton for an underground mine plus mill and $80 per ton for a surface mine and heap leach
Rounding may result in discrepancies. No process recovery factors have been applied to any of the following resource estimates. The unit ton refers to short tons.
The following resource estimates were extracted from a July 11, 2008 NI 43-101 report prepared by Thomas K Bundtzen. There are no mineral reserves estimated for Silverado’s Ester Dome properties. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
A. GRANTMINE - O’DEA STRUCTURE
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Indicated Resources and Inferred Resources
The following table uses the term ‘indicated resources’. Silverado advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations (under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize this term. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
The following table also uses the term ‘inferred resources’. Silverado advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations (under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. ‘Inferred resources’ have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an inferred resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable.
O'Dea-Grant Mineral Resources, effective July 11, 2008
Deposit
Resource
Category
Cut-off Grade
(oz/ton) Au
Quantity (ton)
Grade
(oz/ton Au) Metal
(oz of
Au)
O'Dea-Grant Indicated 0.08 342,000 0.303 103,630
O'Dea-Grant Inferred 0.04 1,380,620 0.089 123,670
B. DOBBS - (ETHEL - ELMES)
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Inferred Resources
The following table uses the term ‘inferred resources’. Silverado advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations (under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. ‘Inferred resources’ have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an inferred resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable.
Dobbs (Ethel-Elmes) Inferred Mineral Resources, effective July 11, 2008
Deposit
Resource
Category
Cut-off Grade
(oz/ton) Au
Quantity (ton)
Grade
(oz/ton Au) Metal
(oz of
Au)
Ethel Elmes Inferred 0.04 1,172,820 0.077 90,470
C. ST. PAUL
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Indicated Resources and Inferred Resources
The following table uses the term ‘indicated resources’. Silverado advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations (under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize this term. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
The following table also uses the term ‘inferred resources’. Silverado advises U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations (under National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. ‘Inferred resources’ have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an inferred resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable.
St. Paul-Barelka Indicated Mineral Resources, effective July 11, 2008
Deposit
Resource
Category
Cut-off Grade
(oz/ton) Au
Quantity (ton)
Grade
(oz/ton Au) Metal
(oz of
Au)
St. Paul-Barelka
Indicated
0.08
271,600
0.085
23,070
Ester Dome Mineral Resource Totals, Effective July 11, 2008
Category Cut-off grade
(oz/ton Au)
Quantity (ton) Grade
(oz/ton Au) Metal
(oz Au)
Total Indicated 0.08 613,600 0.21 126,700
Total Inferred 0.04 2,553,400 0.08 214,100
Note: Rounding may result in discrepancies. No processing recovery factors have been applied to any of these resource estimates. The unit ton refers to short tons. The mineral resource estimates reported in this section were prepared by Bundtzen. There are no mineral reserves estimated for Silverado’s Ester Dome properties. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
EAGLE CREEK PROPERTY
1. Location and Access
The Eagle Creek property is accessed by the Steese Highway, 10 miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska to Fox, Alaska, then traveling along the Elliot highway 6 miles north to Murphy Dome Road, then west along Murphy Dome Road about 5 miles to the property. A map illustrating the location and access to the Eagle Creek property is provided below:
2. Ownership Interest
The Eagle Creek property is comprised of 77 Alaska state mineral claims. All claims are contiguous and are located in the Fairbanks North Star Borough. The total area of the claims equals approximately 3080 acres and all claims are valid. There has been no legal survey on the claims. Ownership of the claims is in the name of Silverado Gold Mines Inc. There is an 'option to purchase' agreement with Arley Taylor (i.e., now with his descendants), to purchase a 100% interest in the property for $400,000, of which $38,000 remains to be paid. The amount of $5,000 per year is required to be paid to keep the agreement in good standing. The original option agreement with Arley Taylor was acquired through an agreement with S. Tan who assigned the agreement to us in consideration of 15% royalty from production (15% of net operating profits after payback of costs). We have continued to make option payments on the Eagle Creek property based on the agreement, and as a result all of our mineral claims and options are in good standing.
3. History of Operations
Earliest work on the property started approximately in 1913, with the original owner exploring for antimony. A number of companies have explored the property from 1964 to the present.
During the early 1980s, geochemical surveys located anomalous gold and antimony targets. Drilling conducted on the property during 1991 and 1992 resulted in the outlining definition of gold mineralization hosted in intrusive rocks. Further in-fill drilling is necessary to determine continuity of the gold bearing sequence, and to ascertain grades of gold within the deposit. During 2010 the Company completed a new mineral assessment of the property. The focus of the mineral assessment was locating and characterizing additional sources of lode gold on the property. The mineral assessment is still on-going.
4. Present Condition of the Property and Current State of Exploration
We did not complete any exploration activity on the Eagle Creek property during 2008 and 2009 other than assessment work and maintenance; however, an exploration work plan that includes trenching and drilling was developed and has successfully been permitted through the APMA process during December of 2010. Extensive exploration drilling has shown gold mineralization throughout the property. Exploration of the Eagle Creek property is currently in the preliminary stages.
The Eagle Creek property is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no plant or equipment located on the Eagle Creek property. Currently, there is no power supply to the Eagle Creek property, although GVEA power transmission lines run through the property and could supply power in the event a facility is warranted for ore processing in the future. Surface exploration work, including geochemical and geophysical surveys is recommended to be continued as a means of tracing promising mineral bearing rock units. Drilling is recommended to test the subsurface continuity and gold content of the rock units. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010 the Company initiated a new mineral assessment of the property which is still ongoing. The mineral assessment was commissioned by Silverado in response to the increase in gold prices and involves compiling over 40 years of exploration data to determine if the Eagle Creek property has potential targets for gold mineralization
5. Geology
The Eagle Creek property is located within the same regional geology as the Ester Dome property.
The Eagle Creek property is 90% underlain by late Proterozoic to early Paleozoic sedimentary and volcanic rocks that have been metamorphosed to greenschist facies. Dominant lithologies are quartz mica schist, micaceous quartzite, graphitic phyllite and chlorite schist, with lesser calc-schist, feldspathic schist, graphitic schist and minor quartz sericite schist.
The remaining 10% of the property is underlain by felsic igneous rocks which intrude the schists in all sectors of the property. Compositions range from biotite quartz monzonite to muscovite granite. Porphyritic phases with quartz and feldspar phenocrysts are ubiquitous. Contact relations observed from mapped distribution of granitic rock fragments in soil and from diamond drill core indicate the intrusives are dikes and sills up to 200’ thick.
FEDERAL CLAIM MAINTENANCE FEES AND STATE CLAIM RENTALS
We pay an annual federal claim maintenance fee to the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) for each federal mineral claim that is owned by us or held under a purchase or lease agreement. We paid aggregate annual federal claim maintenance fees of $94,080 in 2010, $94,080 in 2009, and $84,000 in 2008.
We pay an annual Alaska state claim rentals to the Alaska Department of Revenue for each state mining claim that is owned or held by us under a purchase or lease agreement. We paid aggregate annual Alaska state claim rental fees of $21,930 in 2010, $21,930 in 2009 and $16,770 in fiscal 2008 and 2007.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
The definitions of geological and technical terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are provided below:
Amphibolite Facies
An assemblage of minerals formed under medium to high pressure during regional metamorphism
Arsenopyrite
Mineral composed of iron, arsenic and sulphur.
Auriferous
Containing gold.
Bedrock
Rock units which underlie unconsolidated surface overburden or soils.
Brecciated
Rock composed of angular fragments held together in a matrix.
Calcareous Schist
A laminated metamorphic rock containing calcium carbonate.
Chlorite Schist
A laminated metamorphic rock containing prominent chlorite, which is a hydrated silicate of aluminum, iron and magnesium.
Chloritic Quartzite
A metamorphic rock composed primarily of quartz (silicon dioxide) with minor chlorite (see previous entry).
Development Stage
Includes all mining companies engaged in the preparation of a mineral deposit with reserves for production and which are not in the production
stage.
Dikes
A tabular intrusive body of rock with a vertical or near vertical orientation.
Diorite
A body of intrusive rock composed of feldspars, amphibole and a small amount of quartz.
Dioritic Dikes
See dikes. See diorite.
Dominant Lithology
In a given area, the rock type occurring at the highest percentage.
Drilling
The process of boring a hole in the rock to obtain a sample for determination of metal content. “Diamond Drilling” involves the use of a hollow bit with diamonds on the cutting surface to recover a cylindrical core of rock. “Reverse Circulation Drilling” involves chips of rock being forced back through the center of the drill pipe using air or water.
Exploration
The process of using prospecting, geological mapping, geochemical and geophysical surveys, drilling, sampling and other means to detect and perform initial evaluations of mineral deposits.
Fairbanks Schist
A grouping of metasedimentary rocks which underlie much of the Fairbanks District.
Federal Lode Claims,
Mineral claims up to 20 acres, located on federal land under the U.S.
Federal Placer Claims
Exploration Law of 1872. See below for definitions of “Lode” and “Placer”.
Felsic
A mnemonic adjective derived from (fe) for feldspar. (l) for feldpathoids and (s) for silica and is applied to light-colored rocks containing an abundance of one or all of these constituents.
Geochemical Survey
Sample of soil, rock, silt, water or vegetation analyzed to detect the presence of valuable metals or other metals which may accompany them. E.g., Arsenic may indicate the presence of gold.
Geophysical Survey
Electrical, magnetic and other means used to detect features, which may be associated with mineral deposits.
Gold Deposit
A concentration of gold in rock sufficient to be of economic interest.
Granite
An intrusive rock which includes feldspar, mica and quartz.
Graphitic Phyllite
Metamorphic rock intermediate between slate and schist, and containing graphite (carbon).
Greenschist Facies
An assemblage of minerals formed under low to medium pressure during regional metamorphism.
Host Rocks
A term used for a rock unit which, as a result of favorable structural or chemical characteristics, provides an environment for precipitation or deposition of metals or other foreign materials.
Lode Source
The lode mineral deposit from which placer minerals have been derived by erosion.
Lode
Mineral in place in the host rock, as in “lode gold”.
Metamorphic Complex
A grouping of metamorphic rocks which have complicated structural relationships.
Metamorphism
Processes, including pressure, heat and introduction of new chemical substances, by which consolidated rocks are changed from one form to another.
Metasedimentary
Partially metamorphosed sedimentary rocks.
Metasiltsone
A rock formed from consolidated silt, which has been partially changed to schist.
Micaceous Quartzite
A metamorphic rock, mostly quartz with minor mica.
Micaceous
Containing mica, usually referring to metamorphic rocks.
Mineral Claims
General term used to describe the manner of land acquisition under which the right to explore, develop and extract metals is established.
Mineral Deposit
A mineral deposit is a mineralized body, which has been intersected by a sufficient number of drill holes or by underground workings to give an estimate of grade(s) of metal(s) to warrant further exploration or development. A mineral deposit does not qualify as a commercially viable mineral deposit with reserves under standards set by the Securities and Exchange Commission until a final, comprehensive, economic, technical and legal feasibility study has been completed.
Mineral reserve
Securities and Exchange Commission Industry Guide 7 Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or to be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations of the Securities and Exchange Commission defines a reserve’ as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves consist of:
(1) Proven (Measured) Reserves. Reserves for which: (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well- established.
(2) Probable (Indicated) Reserves. Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
Mineral resource
National Instrument 43-10 1 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects of the Canadian Securities Administrators defines a “Mineral Resource” as a concentration or occurrence of natural, solid, inorganic or fossilized organic material in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories. An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that applied to an Indicated Mineral Resource. An Indicated Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than an Inferred Mineral Resource but has a lower level of confidence than a Measured Mineral Resource.
(1) Inferred Mineral Resource. An ‘Inferred Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis of geological evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, but not verified, geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based on limited information and sampling gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
(2) Indicated Mineral Resource. An ‘Indicated Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough for geological and grade continuity to be reasonably assumed.
(3) Measured Mineral Resource. A ‘Measured Mineral Resource’ is that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape, physical characteristics are so well established that they can be estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support production planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and grade continuity.
Industry Guide 7 - “Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or to be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations” of the Securities and Exchange Commission does not define or recognize resources. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-KSB, “resources” are as defined in National Instrument 43-10 1.
Muscovite
A light coloured mica.
Ore
A natural aggregate of one or more minerals which, at a specified time and place, may be mined and processed and the product(s) at a profit or from which some part may be profitably separated.
Phyllite
An argillaceous rock intermediate between slate and schist.
Placer
Mineral, which has been separated from its host rock by natural processes and is often reconcentrated in streams as “placer deposits” or “placer gold”.
Porphyritic Phases
Areas of rock in which one or more minerals occur as larger crystals in a relatively finer groundmass.
Production Stage
Includes all mining companies engaged in the exploitation of a mineral deposit with proven reserves.
Pyrite
A mineral containing iron and sulphur.
Quartzite
A metamorphic rock composed mostly of quartz (silicon dioxide)
Quartz-Mica Schist
A laminated metamorphic rock with roughly equal quartz and mica. In geophysical surveying, an area with higher electromagnetic conductivity
Resistivity Low
than the surrounding area.
Schist
Flat plate-like metamorphic rock formations, which contain primarily mica.
Slate
A metamorphosed mudstone.
State Claims
Mineral claims up to 40 acres, located on State of Alaska lands.
Stibnite A mineral composed of antimony and sulphur.
Stocks Small intrusive bodies of rock.
Thrust Fault Contact One rock type pushed over top of another at a relatively low angle.
ITEM 3.