ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Until 1993, the Company's oil and gas activities were focused in the Mid- Continent. In 1993 the Company made the strategic move to increase oil production and reserves by expanding its development and exploration activities into the Rocky Mountains. The Company currently controls approximately 412,000 net acres in the Rocky Mountains and is ranked among the largest oil producers in the Rocky Mountains. Continental's oil production is characterized by long lived, stable production with high secondary and enhanced oil recovery potential which perpetuates production and cash flow from its properties. Approximately 74% of its estimated proved reserves on a BOE basis at December 31, 1999 were oil. To achieve a more balanced reserve mix, the Company is focusing on generating an increased inventory of natural gas drilling opportunities in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast. Currently, 70% of the Company's drilling budget is focused on further expansion and development of its Rocky Mountain oil fields, and the remaining 30% is focused on natural gas projects in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast. The Company's Gulf Coast activities are conducted onshore near the Texas and Louisiana coasts and on the shallow shelf of the Gulf of Mexico. In the Gulf Coast, the Company holds approximately 6,000 net leasehold acres and has identified 16 potential drilling locations.
The following table provides information with respect to the Company's net proved reserves for its principal oil and gas properties as of December 31, 1999:
ROCKY MOUNTAINS
The Company's Rocky Mountain properties are located primarily in the Williston Basin of North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana and in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. Estimated proved reserves for its Rocky Mountains properties at December 31, 1999 totaled 38.5 MMBoe and represented 73.7% of the Company's PV-10. Approximately 94% of these estimated proved reserves are proved developed. During the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, the average net daily production was 7,690 Bbls of oil and 3,399 Mcf of natural gas, or 8,256 Boe per day from the Rocky Mountain properties , excluding the Worland Properties which were contributed by the principal stockholder on December 31, 1999. The addition of the Worland Properties will add approximately 920 Bbls of oil per day and 2,833 Mcf of natural gas, or 1,392 Boe per day. As of December 31, 1999, excluding the contributed properties, the Company is producing approximately 11,857 Boe per day with another 34 Boe per day shut in due to economics or equipment repairs. The Company's leasehold interests include 156,649 net developed and 255,231 net undeveloped acres, which represent 31% and 51% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively. This leasehold is expected to be developed utilizing 3-D seismic, precision horizontal drilling and HPAI, where applicable. As of December 31, 1999, the Company's Rocky Mountain properties included an inventory of 202 development and 6 exploratory drilling locations.
WILLISTON BASIN
CEDAR HILLS FIELD. The Cedar Hills Field was discovered in November 1994 and is still under development. During the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, the Cedar Hills Field properties produced 4,826 net Boe per day to the Company interests and represented 33% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 1999. The Cedar Hills Field produces oil from the Red River "B" Formation, a thin (eight feet), non- fractured, blanket-type, dolomite reservoir found at depths of 8,000 to 9,500 feet. All wells drilled by the Company in the Red River "B" Formation were drilled exclusively with precision horizontal drilling technology. The Cedar Hills Field covers approximately 200 square miles and has a known oil column of 1,000 feet. Through December 31, 1999, the Company drilled or participated in 158 gross (108 net) horizontal wells, of which 151 were successfully completed, for a 96% net success rate.
The Company believes that the Red River "B" formation in the Cedar Hills Field is well suited for enhanced secondary recovery using HPAI technology. On four nearby HPAI projects operated by the Company, HPAI technology has increased oil recoveries 200% to 300% over primary recovery with ultimate recoveries reaching up to 40% of the original oil in place. The Company intends to initiate installation of HPAI secondary recovery on certain of its Cedar Hills Field properties upon completion of field unitization, which is expected to occur in 2000. The Company believes that HPAI could increase its total recovery from the Cedar Hills Field by as much as 75 million net barrels. On May 15, 1998, the Company and Burlington Resources Oil and Gas Company ("Burlington") entered into a definitive agreement to exchange undivided interests so that effective December 1, 1998 the Company will own working interests ranging from 90% to 92% in approximately 65,000 gross (59,000 net) leasehold acres in the northern half of the Cedar Hills Field. As a result of the agreement, the Company will enhance its ability to unitize all interests in the northern half of the Cedar Hills Field, which is necessary in order for the Company to initiate the planned HPAI enhanced recovery operations in the Cedar Hills Field. On August 19, 1998, the Company instituted a declaratory judgment action against Burlington in the District Court of Garfield County, Oklahoma (Case No. CJ-98-613-03) alleging that Burlington provided false and misleading information regarding certain of Burlington's oil and gas properties to a third party consultant charged with determining the relative values of oil and gas properties owned by the Company and Burlington which served as the basis for the exchange of interests. The Company claimed that the consultant relied on such false and misleading information in determining the relative fair values of the oil and gas interests. The Company sought a declaratory judgment determining that it is excused from further performance under its exchange agreement with Burlington. Burlington denied the Company's allegations and sought specific performance by the Company, plus monetary damages of an unspecified amount. A non-jury trial was held in the case in October 1999. On December 22, 1999, the Court issued an Order requiring the parties to proceed in accordance with terms of the Trade Agreement and instructing them to use their best efforts to finalize the Agreements. Even though Continental is appealing the decision of the Trial Court, it is complying with the Order entered by the Court.
As of December 31, 1999, there were 6 horizontal drilling locations in inventory, all of which are development well locations.
MEDICINE POLE HILLS, BUFFALO, WEST BUFFALO AND SOUTH BUFFALO UNITS. In 1995, the Company acquired the following interests in four production units in the Williston Basin: Medicine Pole Hills (63%); Buffalo (86%); West Buffalo (82%); and South Buffalo (85%). During the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, these units produced 1,917 Boe per day, net to the Company's interests, and repre- sented 5.8 MMBoe or 8.9% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 1999. These units are HPAI enhanced recovery projects that produce from the Red River "B" Formation and are operated by the Company. These units were discovered and developed with conventional vertical drilling. The oldest vertical well in these units has been producing for 45 years, demonstrating the long lived production characteristic of the Red River "B" Formation. There are 96 producing wells in these units and current estimates of remaining reserve life range from four to 13 years. As planned, the Company has expanded the Medicine Pole Hills Unit through horizontal drilling and is in the process of forming the West Medicine Pole Hills Unit. The unit encompasses an additional 25 square miles of productive Red River B reservoir and represents first in a two phase expansion of the Medicine Pole Hills Field. Secondary injection is scheduled to begin in the West Medicine Pole Hills Unit during the fourth quarter 2000. The Company will own approximately 80 % of the newly formed unit. During 2000, the Company plans to drill up to 20 horizontal wells as part of phase two to further expand and develop these units. There are currently 28 development drilling locations identified in these units.
LUSTRE AND MIDFORK FIELDS. In January 1992, the Company acquired the Lustre and Midfork Fields which, during the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, produced 244 Bbls per day, net to the Company's interests. Wells in both the Lustre and Midfork Fields produce from the Charles "C" dolomite, at depths of 5,500 to 6,000 feet. Historically, production from the Charles "C" has a low daily pro- duction rate and is long lived. There are currently 27 wells producing in the two fields, and no secondary recovery is underway in either field. The Company currently owns 72,000 net acres in the Lustre and Midfork Fields and plans to utilize 3-D seismic combined with horizontal drilling to further exploit the Charles "C" reservoir, and to generate drilling opportunities for deeper objectives underlying the Lustre and Midfork Fields as well as guide exploration for new fields on its substantial undeveloped leasehold.
BIG HORN BASIN
On May 14, 1998, the Company consummated the purchase for $86.5 million of producing and non-producing oil and gas properties and certain other related assets in the Worland Field, effective as of June 1, 1998. Subsequently, and effective as of June 1, 1998, the Company sold an undivided 50% interest in the Worland Field properties (excluding inventory and certain equipment) to Harold Hamm, the Company's principal stockholder, for $42.6 million. On December 31, 1999 the Company's principal stockholder contributed the undivided 50% interest in the Worland Properties along with debt of $18,600,000. The stockholder contributed $22,461,096 of the properties as additional paid-in-capital and the Company assumed his outstanding debt for the balance of the purchase price. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." The Worland Field properties cover 75,000 net leasehold acres in the Worland Field of the Big Horn Basin in northern Wyoming, of which 30,000 net acres are held by production and 45,000 net acres are non-producing or prospective. Approximately two-thirds of the Company's producing leases in the Worland Field are within five federal units, the largest of which (the Cottonwood Creek Unit) has been producing for over 40 years. All of the units produce principally from the Phosphoria formation, which is the most prolific oil producing formation in the Worland Field. Four of the units are unitized as to all depths, with the Cottonwood Creek Field Extension (Phosphoria) Unit being unitized only as to the Phosphoria formation. The Company is the operator of all five of the federal units. The Company also operates 40 of the 60 producing wells located on non-unitized acreage. The Com- pany's Worland Field properties include interests in 243 producing wells, 230 of which are operated by the Company.
As of December 31, 1999, the estimated net proved reserves attributable to the Company's Worland Field properties were approximately 17.5 MMBoe, with an estimated PV-10 of $98.4 million. Approximately 80%, by volume, of these proved reserves consist of oil, principally in the Phosphoria formation. Oil produced from the Company's Worland Field properties is low gravity, sour (high sulphur content) crude, resulting in a lower sales price per barrel than non-sour crude, and is sold into a Marathon pipeline or is trucked from the lease. Gas produced from the Worland Field properties is also sour, resulting in a sale price that is less per Mcf than non-sour natural gas. From the effective date of the Worland Field Acquisition through September 30, 1998, the average price of crude oil produced by the Worland Field properties was $5.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price of crude oil. The Company entered into a contract effective October 1, 1998 through March 31, 1999 to sell crude oil produced from its Worland Field properties at an average price of $3.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price. Subsequent to these contracts, and effective February 1, 1999 the Company entered into a contract to sell the Worland Field production at a gravity adjusted price of $1.67 per barrel less than the monthly NYMEX average price. The new contract will expire April 1, 2000 and is currently being renegotiated.
In addition to the proved reserves, the Company has identified 162 development drilling locations on its Worland Field properties, to further develop and exploit the undeveloped portion of the Worland Field. Over 100 wells have been identified for acid fracture stimulation, most of which have been classified as having proved developed non-producing reserves. The Company believes that secondary and tertiary recovery projects will have significant potential for the addition of reserves. In addition, two exploratory drilling prospects have been identified on the Company's Worland Field properties in which prospects the Company has a majority leasehold position, allowing for further exploration for and exploitation of the Phosphoria, Tensleep, Frontier and Muddy formations and other prospective formations for additional reserves.
MID-CONTINENT
The Company's Mid-Continent properties are located primarily in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma, southwestern Kansas and the Texas Panhandle, and to a lesser extent, in the Arkoma Basin of southeastern Oklahoma ("Arkoma Basin"). At December 31, 1999, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent totaled 9.2 MMBoe, representing 21.8% of the Company's PV-10 at such date. At December 31, 1999 approximately 76% of the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent were natural gas. Net daily production from these prop- erties during 1999 averaged 1,113 Bbls of oil and 14,259 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,489 Boe to the Company's interests. The Company's Mid-Continent leasehold position includes 65,454 net developed and 17,439 net undeveloped acres, representing 13% and 3% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively, at December 31, 1999.
As of December 31, 1999, the Company's Mid-Continent properties included an inventory of ten development drilling locations, all of them in the Anadarko Basin.
ANADARKO BASIN. The Anadarko Basin properties contained 99% of the Company's estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent and 21.1% of the Company's total PV-10 at December 31, 1999 and at such date, represented 52% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. During the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, net daily production from its Anadarko Basin properties averaged 1,113 Bbls of oil and 13,002 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,280 Boe to the Company's interest from 534 gross (319 net) producing wells, 422 of which are operated by the Company. The Anadarko Basin wells produce from a variety of sands and carbonates in both stratigraphic and structural traps in the Arbuckle, Oil Creek, Viola, Mississippian, Springer, Morrow, Red Ford, Oswego, Skinner and Tonkawa formations, at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. These properties are currently being re-evaluated for further development drilling and workover potential.
ARKOMA BASIN. In the Arkoma Basin, the Company was focused on coal bed methane, where it owned approximately 12,000 acres and had 40 producing wells from the Hartshorne coal at depths of 2,500 to 3,500 feet. As part of the Company's strategic plan to divest of non-core assets for the purpose of allocating resources to higher reserve growth projects, all oil and gas properties in the Arkoma Basin, along with the Rattlesnake and Enterprise Gas Gathering System, were sold in January 2000 for $5.8 million. The PV-10 of the reserves on these properties was approximately $2.4 million.
GULF COAST
The Company's Gulf Coast activities are located primarily in the Pebble Beach Project in Nueces County, Texas and the Jefferson Island Project in Iberia Parish, Louisiana. During 1999 the Company also entered into a joint venture arrangement with Challanger Minerals to expand its drilling activities into the shallow shelf area of the Gulf of Mexico. At December 31, 1999, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Gulf Coast totaled 1.6 MMBOE (80% gas) representing 4.5% of the Company's total PV10 and 10% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. Net daily production from these properties is 56 Bbls of oil and 3200 Mcf of natural gas or 589 Boe to the Company's interest from 11 wells. The Company's leasehold position includes 1,526 net developed and 4,515 net undeveloped acres representing .3% and .9% of the Company's total leasehold respectively. From a combined total of 68 square miles of proprietary 3-D data, 16 development and 11 exploratory locations have been identified for drilling on these projects to date.
JEFFERSON ISLAND. The Jefferson Island project is an underdeveloped salt dome that produces from a series of prolific Miocene sands. To date the field has produced 65.2 MMBOE from approximately one quarter of the total dome. The remaining three quarters of the faulted dome complex are essentially unexplored or underdeveloped. The Company has acquired 35 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic covering the property and has identified 13 development and 5 explora- tory drilling locations to date. The first well drilled off the 3-D data was successful and a second well is scheduled to be drilled in the first quarter 2000. The Company plans to drill one well per quarter to carefully incorporate new well data into the 3-D seismic and allow a third party to complete a 5 well drilling obligation to earn 50% of the project. The third party has drilled two of the five obligation wells to date and will drill the remaining three during 2000. The Company controls 2,393 gross and 1,406 net acres in the project.
PEBBLE BEACH. The Pebble Beach project targets the prolific Frio and Vicksburg sands underlying and surrounding the Clara Driscoll field. These sandstones are found at depths ranging from 5000' to 9500' and produce on structures readily defined by seismic. Using 20 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic, the Company has identified 3 development and 5 exploratory drilling locations. During 1999 the Company established significant production from the project and plans to continue drilling and expanding the project through 2000. The Company has scheduled two wells for the first half of 2000 and the acquisition of additional proprietary 3-D seismic to expand the project. The Company owns 7,685 gross and 4,564 net acres in the project.
GULF OF MEXICO. During 1999 the Company elected to expand its drilling program into the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico though a joint venture arrangement with Challanger Minerals. This is part of the Company's ongoing strategy to build its opportunity base of high rate of return, natural gas op- portunities in the Gulf Coast region. The Company will not operate and expects to participate only in projects with turnkey drilling contracts. Drilling expenditures in the Gulf of Mexico will be restricted to under $500,000 per project while the Company builds experience in this new area. As of December 31, 1999, the Company has participated in 2 wells which resulted in one excellent producer with added behind pipe pay. The Company currently has one well in inventory and expects it will spend no more than 10% of its drilling budget on Gulf of Mexico drilling opportunities during 2000.
NET PRODUCTION, UNIT PRICES AND COSTS
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production, prices and costs attributable to all oil and gas property interests owned by the Company for the periods shown:
PRODUCING WELLS
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which the Company owned an interest as of December 31, 1999:
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the Company's developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 1999:
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth the Company's drilling activity on its properties for the periods indicated:
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table summarizes the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves and the related PV-10 of such reserves at the dates shown. Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers ("Ryder Scott") prepared the reserve and present value data with respect to the Company's oil and gas properties which represented 72% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1997, 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1999. The Company prepared the reserve and present value data on all other properties.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom are affected by oil and gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. The Company's future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon its level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
GAS GATHERING SYSTEMS
The Company's gas gathering systems are owned by CGI. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under either market- sensitive percent-of-proceeds-index contracts or keep-whole gas purchase contracts or of fee based contracts. Under percent-of-proceeds-index contracts, CGI receives a fixed percentage of the monthly index posted price for natural gas and a fixed percentage of the resale price for natural gas liquids. CGI generally receives between 20% and 30% of the posted index price for natural gas sales and from 20% to 30% of the proceeds received from natural gas liquids sales. Under keep-whole gas purchase contracts, CGI retains all natural gas liquids recovered by its processing facilities and keeps the producers whole by returning to the producers at the tailgate of its plants an amount of residue gas equal on a BTU basis to the natural gas received at the plant inlet. The keep-whole component of the contract permits the Company to benefit when the value of natural gas liquids is greater as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. Under the fee based contracts, CGI receives a fixed rate per MMBTU of gas purchased. This rate per MMBTU remains fixed regardless of commodity prices.
OIL AND GAS MARKETING
The Company's oil and gas production is sold primarily under market sensitive or spot price contracts. The Company sells substantially all of its casinghead gas to purchasers under varying percentage-of-proceeds contracts. By the terms of these contracts, the Company receives a fixed percentage of the resale price received by the purchaser for sales of natural gas and natural gas liquids recovered after gathering and processing the Company's gas. The Company normally receives between 80% and 100% of the proceeds from natural gas sales and from 80% to 100% of the proceeds from natural gas liquids sales received by the Company's purchasers when the products are resold. The natural gas and natural gas liquids sold by these purchasers are sold primarily based on spot market prices. The revenues received by the Company from the sale of natural gas liquids is included in natural gas sales. As a result of the natural gas liquids contained in the Company's production, the Company has historically improved its price realization on its natural gas sales as compared to Henry Hub or other natural gas price indexes. For the year ended December 31, 1999, purchases of the Company's natural gas production by GPM Gas Corporation accounted for 12% of the Company's total gas sales for such period and for the same period purchases of the Company's oil production by EOTT Energy Corp. accounted for 65% and Plains Marketing and Transportation accounted for 12% of the Company's total produced oil sales. Due to the availability of other markets, the Company does not believe that the loss of any crude oil or gas customer would have a material effect on the Company's results of operations.
Periodically the Company utilizes various hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and gas production. The Company does not establish hedges in excess of its expected production. These strategies customarily emphasize forward-sale, fixed-price contracts for physical delivery of a specified quantity of production or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which the Company pays the hedging partner and below which the Company is paid by the hedging partner. These contracts allow the Company to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and gas prices to be received for its hedged production and benefit the Company when market prices are less than the fixed prices provided in its forward-sale contracts. However, the Company does not benefit from market prices that are higher than the fixed prices in such contracts for its hedged production. In August 1998, the Company began engaging in oil trading arrangements as part of its oil marketing activities. Under these arrangements, the Company contracts to purchase oil from one source and to sell oil to an unrelated purchaser, usually at disparate prices.
ITEM 3.