ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION SEGMENT
Our oil and gas properties are located in selected portions of the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountains and Gulf Coast regions. Through 1993, most of our activities and growth were focused in the Mid-Continent region. In 1993 we expanded our drilling and acquisition activities into the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions seeking added opportunity for production and reserve growth. The Rocky Mountain region was targeted for oil reserves with good secondary recovery potential and, therefore, long life reserves. The Gulf Coast region was targeted for natural gas reserves with shorter reserve life but high current cash flow. As of December 31, 2003, our estimated net proved reserves from all properties totaled 84.2 MMBoe with 85% of these reserves located in the Rocky Mountain region, 14% in the Mid-Continent region and 1% in the Gulf Coast region. At December 31, 2003, 87% of our net proved reserves were oil and 13% were natural gas. Our oil reserves are confined primarily to the Rocky Mountain region and our natural gas reserves are primarily from the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions. Approximately $40.0 million, or 49%, of our projected $81.9 million capital expenditures for 2004 are focused on expansion and development of our oil properties in the Rocky Mountain region while the remaining $41.9 million, or 51%, is focused primarily on our natural gas projects in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.
The following table provides information with respect to our net proved reserves for our principal oil and gas properties as of December 31, 2003:
ROCKY MOUNTAIN REGION
Our Rocky Mountain properties are located primarily in the Williston Basin of North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana and in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. Estimated proved reserves for our Rocky Mountain properties at December 31, 2003, totaled 72.0 MMBoe and represented 75% of our PV-10. Approximately 48% of these estimated proved reserves are proved developed. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, our average net daily production from the Rocky Mountain properties was 7,294 Bbls of oil and 4,022 Mcf of natural gas, or 7,964 Boe per day. Our leasehold interests include 172,000 net developed and 397,000 net undeveloped acres, which represent 23% and 53% of our total leasehold, respectively. This leasehold is expected to be developed utilizing 3-D seismic, precision horizontal drilling and secondary recovery technologies, where applicable. As of December 31, 2003, our Rocky Mountain properties included an inventory of 69 development and 21 exploratory drilling locations.
WILLISTON BASIN
Cedar Hills Field. The Cedar Hills Field was discovered in November 1994. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Cedar Hills Field properties produced 3,092 net Boe per day to our interests. The Cedar Hills Field produces oil from the Red River "B" formation, a thin (eight feet), non-fractured, blanket-type, dolomite reservoir found at depths of 8,000 to 9,500 feet. All wells drilled by us in the Red River "B" formation were drilled exclusively with precision horizontal drilling technology. The Cedar Hills Field covers approximately 200 square miles and has a known oil column of 1,000 feet. From April 1995through December 31, 2003, we drilled or participated in 229 gross (224 net) horizontal wells, of which 222 were successfully completed, for a 97% net success rate. We believe that the Red River "B" formation in the Cedar Hills Field is well suited for enhanced secondary recovery using either HPAI and/or traditional water flooding technology. Both technologies have been applied successfully in adjacent secondary recovery units for over 30 years and have proven to increase oil recoveries from the Red River "B" formation by 200% to 300% over primary recovery. We are proficient using either technology and are in the process of implementing both as part of our secondary recovery operations in the Cedar Hills Field. Effective March 1, 2001, we obtained approval for two secondary recovery units in the Cedar Hills Field; the Cedar Hills North-Red River "B" Unit, or the CHNRRU located in Bowman and Slope Counties, North Dakota and the West Cedar Hills Unit, or WCHU located in Fallon County, Montana. We own 96% of the working interest in the CHNRRU and are the operator of the unit. The CHNRRU contains 143 wells and 50,000 acres. We own 100% of the working interest in the WCHU and are the unit operator. The WCHU contains 14 wells and 8,000 acres. An estimated $6.1 million will need to be invested during 2004 to fully implement our secondary recovery operations in the Cedar Hills Field. By the second quarter of 2004, we expect to have completed the 65 required injectors and installed facilities to begin injection in 100% of the units. The north half of the Cedar Hills Field began showing response to HPAI in November 2003. This increase in production should continue through 2006 when the field should be fully responding to HPAI. The Cedar Hills Field represents 50% of our estimated proved reserves and $401.9 million, or 49%, of the PV-10 of our proved reserves at December 31, 2003.
Medicine Pole Hills, Medicine Pole Hills West, Medicine Pole Hills South, Buffalo, West Buffalo and South Buffalo Units. In 1995, we acquired the following interests in four production units in the Williston Basin: Medicine Pole Hills (63%), Buffalo (86%), West Buffalo (82%), and South Buffalo (85%). During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, these units produced 2,264 Boe per day, net to our interests, and represented 11.6 MMBoe and $77.9 million, or 9%, of the PV-10 attributable to our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2003. These units are HPAI enhanced recovery projects that produce from the Red River "B" formation and are operated by us. All were discovered and developed with conventional vertical drilling. The oldest vertical well in these units has been producing for 47 years, demonstrating the long-lived production characteristic of the Red River "B" formation. There are 131 producing wells in these units and current estimates of remaining reserve life range from four to 13 years. We subsequently expanded the Medicine Pole Hills Unit through horizontal drilling into the Medicine Pole Hills West Unit, or MPHWU, which became effective April 1, 2000. The MPHWU produces from 18 wells and encompasses an additional 22 square miles of productive Red River "B" reservoir. We own approximately 80% of the MPHWU and began secondary injection November 22, 2000. The MPHWU was the first in a scheduled two-phase expansion of the Medicine Pole Hills Unit. Phase two of the expansion plan was successfully completed during 2001 delineating another 20 square miles of productive Red River B reservoir through horizontal drilling. The Medicine Pole Hills South Unit, or the MPHSU became effective October 1, 2002, and injection started in 2003.
Lustre and Midfork Fields. In January 1992, we acquired the Lustre and Midfork Fields, which during the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, produced 367 Bbls per day, net to our interests. Wells in both the Lustre and Midfork Fields produce from the Charles "C" dolomite, at depths of 5,500 to 6,000 feet. Historically, production from the Charles "C" has a low daily production rate and is long lived. There are currently 44 wells producing in the two fields. We currently own 99,000 net acres in the Lustre and Midfork Field area of which 70,000 net leasehold acres remain undeveloped.
We believe new reserves can be found on this undeveloped leasehold from the Charles C, Mission Canyon, Lodgepole, and Nisku reservoirs. These new reservoirs would come from drilling 12 exploratory locations identified from our 60 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data. During 2002, we tested the first of these locations and made a modest discovery in the Lodgepole formation. The discovery is significant since it established production 200 miles from the prolific Lodgepole fields near Dickinson, North Dakota. A development well drilled by us in 2003, offsetting the discovery was unsuccessful in establishing commercial production. We are assessing results and contemplating plans for further testing and development, but have no drilling scheduled for 2004.
MB Project, Richland County, Montana. During 2003, we commenced operations in a new area that based on information developed to date, we expect to be another significant discovery of oil in the Rocky Mountain Region. We believe that the potential recoverable reserves of oil in this area could exceed 100 million gross barrels of oil, which potentially, could result in the addition of 25 million net barrels to our proved reserve base. The producing reservoir is the Bakken Formation which is a widespread, Devonian age shale deposited within the central portions of the Williston Basin. The Bakken is known to contain hydrocarbons throughout the Williston Basin and is considered to be one of the primary source rocks for the basin. Within the MB Project area, the Bakken is over-pressured and contains commercially producible quantities of oil and gas.
Although this is a new venture for us, the activity in this area has been emerging over the last two years through the efforts of other operators. We delayed entry into this area and elected to monitor activity until the economics could be supported by results. Approximately 50 wells have been drilled by other operators in this area to date, with 100% success and initial flow rates of up to 1500 barrels of oil per day, or BOPD. Combined, these wells are currently producing in excess of 300,000 barrels of oil per month. The area is being developed using a combination of horizontal drilling and fracture technology at a cost of $2.0-$2.5 million per well. Wells are drilled to a vertical depth averaging 9,500' from which two opposing horizontal legs are drilled. Each horizontal leg is approximately 5,000 feet in length for a total footage drilled of 19,500 per well. Wells typically take 45 days to drill and 30 days to complete. A total of 10 rigs are drilling in this area and we believe over 200 wells will ultimately be drilled within the potentially productive area.
During 2003, we assembled approximately 65,000 net acres and successfully drilled and completed four producers in the MB Project. These producers were completed flowing 400 to 1200 BOPD and assigned gross proved developed reserves averaging 500,000 barrels of oil, or 500 MBO, per well. We have identified an additional 54 wells to drill in the MB Project over the next 2 years. Of these 54 wells, 21 have been classified as PUD and assigned gross reserves of 500 MBO per well in our 2003 reserve report. We anticipate most of the remaining locations will be classified as proved undeveloped, or PUD, by year-end 2004. Our average working interest in these wells should exceed 70%. At this time we have one rig drilling continuously in the MB Project and we plan to add a second rig in April 2004 with a third rig possibly moving in during the fourth quarter 2004.
BIG HORN BASIN
Worland Field During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, the Worland Field properties produced 1,510 Boe per day, net to our interests. These properties cover 78,000 net leasehold acres in the Worland Field of the Big Horn Basin in northern Wyoming, of which 27,000 net acres are held by production and 51,000 net acres are non-producing or prospective. Approximately two-thirds of our producing leases in the Worland Field are within five federal units, the largest of which, the Cottonwood Creek Unit, has been producing for more than 40 years. All of the units produce principally from the Phosphoria formation, which is the most prolific oil producing formation in the Worland Field. Four of the units are unitized as to all depths, with the Cottonwood Creek Field Extension (Phosphoria) Unit being unitized only as to the Phosphoria formation. We are the operator of all five of the federal units. We also operate 38 producing wells located on non-unitized acreage. Our Worland Field properties include interests in 313 producing wells; and we operate 297, or 95% of these wells.
As of December 31, 2003, the estimated net proved reserves attributable to our Worland Field properties were approximately 8.1 MMBoe, with an estimated PV-10 of $50.5 million. Approximately 87%, by volume, of these proved reserves consist of oil, principally in the Phosphoria formation. Oil produced from our Worland Field properties is low gravity, sour (high sulphur content) crude, resulting in a lower sales price per barrel than non-sour crude, and is sold into a Marathon pipeline or is trucked from the lease. Oil from the Worland Field is sold at a price based on NYMEX less a differential ranging from $4.00 - $6.00 per barrel. Gas produced from the Worland Field properties is also sour, resulting in a sale price that is less per Mcf than non-sour natural gas.
We believe that secondary and tertiary recovery projects have significant potential for the addition of reserves in the Worland Field area fields. We continue to seek the best method for increasing recovery from the producing reservoirs. Currently, we have one Tensleep waterflood project and one pilot imbibitions flood underway. We implemented water injection into five wells in late 2002 to evaluate secondary and pressure recovery techniques that will best process the Phosphoria dolomite oil reserves. Production should be enhanced in as many as 20 offset wells. We have installed the system for expansion if the results meet expectations. In addition to the secondary and pressure recovery projects, we have evaluated infill drilling opportunities identifying 36 locations scheduled for drilling beginning in 2006, which we estimate will add 3.5 MMBoe to our proved reserves. As evidenced by past infill drilling and acid fracturing stimulations, reserve growth can be significant.
MID-CONTINENT REGION
Our Mid-Continent properties are located primarily in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. During 2001, we expanded our operations in the Mid-Continent through the acquisition of Farrar Oil Company's assets in the Anadarko and Illinois Basins and expanding exploration into the Black Warrior Basin. At December 31, 2003, our estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent totaled 11.4 MMBoe and represented 22% of our PV-10. At December 31, 2003, approximately 65% of our estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent were natural gas. Net daily production from these properties during 2003 averaged 1,895 Bbls of oil and 15,517 Mcf of natural gas, or 4,481 Boe to our interests. Our Mid-Continent leasehold position includes 99,000 net developed and 65,000 net undeveloped acres, representing 13% and 9% of our total net leasehold, respectively, at December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003, our Mid-Continent properties included an inventory of 33 development and 44 exploratory drilling locations.
Anadarko Basin. The Anadarko Basin properties contained 71% of our estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent region and 18% of our total PV-10 at December 31, 2003, and represented 60% of our estimated proved reserves of natural gas. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, net daily production from our Anadarko Basin properties averaged 767 Bbls of oil and 14,020 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,103 Boe to our interests from 649 gross (302 net) producing wells, 352 of which are operated by us. Our Anadarko Basin wells produce from a variety of sands and carbonates in both stratigraphic and structural traps in the Arbuckle, Oil Creek, Viola, Mississippian, Springer, Morrow, Red Fork, Oswego, Skinner and Tonkawa formations, at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. These properties have been a steady source of cash flow for us and are continually being developed by infill drilling, recompletions, workovers, new leasing and exploratory drilling. Average net daily production for 2003 was up approximately 4% over 2002, but increased significantly more during the fourth quarter of 2003 with the completion of two wells, each capable of producing up to 5,000 Mcf daily. During 2003, we drilled 13 wells, with 11 completed as producers and two dry holes. As of December 31, 2003, we had identified 27development and 22 exploratory drilling locations on our properties in the Anadarko Basin. We plan to drill 20 wells in 2004 with a majority of the drilling focused in the prolific Morrow-Springer reservoirs of Blaine County, Oklahoma.
Illinois Basin. Our Illinois Basin properties contained 25% of our estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent region and 4% of our total PV-10 at December 31, 2003. Net daily production during the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, averaged 1,124 Bbls of oil and 203 Mcf of natural gas, or 1,157 Boe to our interests from 761 gross (613 net) producing wells, 651, or 86% of which are operated by us. Approximately 77% of our net oil production in this basin comes from 32 active secondary recovery projects. Our expertise results in very efficient operations combined with low decline rates which make most of the properties very long lived. Many of the projects have been active for over 16 years with many years of economic life remaining. Two new secondary recovery projects are planned for implementation during 2004. All properties are constantly being evaluated and we are continually performing numerous workovers and making injection enhancements. As of December 31, 2003, we had five development and 17 exploratory drilling locations. All of the exploratory drill sites were selected from interpretations utilizing detailed geological studies and computer mapping with all but one defined by seismic programs shot by us. In addition, we have six active exploration project areas with seismic programs to cover the majority of these areas to be shot during 2004. Included in this seismic program are three projects where the use of 3-D seismic technology will be employed.
Black Warrior Basin. In April 2000, we began a grass roots effort to expand our exploration program into the Black Warrior Basin located in eastern Mississippi and western Alabama. The basis for the expansion was to capitalize on our in-house geologic expertise and add opportunities for shallow gas to our drilling program. The play offers significant upside, with minimal competition, low acreage and drilling costs as well as substantial room for expansion given success. Reservoirs are Pennsylvanian and Mississippian age sands found at depths of 2,500 feet to 4,500 feet with reserves of .75 Bcf per well on average. As of December 31, 2003, we had acquired 26,000 net acres and acquired licenses to approximately 1,500 miles of 2-D seismic data across the basin.
Results to date have not met with expectations and we are contemplating exiting the play. Net daily production during the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, averaged 514 Mcf of natural gas or 86 Boe to our interests. During 2003, we drilled two wells and established one producer. We plan to drill two wells during 2004 and the results of these wells will dictate our continued commitment to the basin.
GULF COAST
Our Gulf Coast activities are located primarily in South Texas and include the Pebble Beach and Luby Projects located in Nueces County, Texas. We also own a majority position in and operate the Jefferson Island Project in Iberia Parish, Louisiana and we participate in non-operated shallow Gulf of Mexico wells through a joint venture arrangement with Challenger Minerals, Inc. At December 31, 2003, our estimated proved reserves in the Gulf Coast totaled .8 MMBoe (87% gas) representing 3% of our total PV-10 and 6% of our estimated proved reserves of natural gas. During 2003, our Gulf Coast producing wells represented only 5% of our total producing well count, but produced 33% of our total gas production for the year. Net daily production from these properties is 281 Bbls of oil and 9,489 Mcf of natural gas or 1,862 Boe to our interests from 115 gross (93 net) producing wells. Our leasehold position includes 8,000 net developed and 14,000 net undeveloped acres representing 1% and 2% of our total leasehold respectively. From a combined total of 160 square miles of proprietary 3-D data, a total of 23 development and 16 exploratory locations have been identified for drilling on these projects.
South Texas. The Pebble Beach and Luby projects target the prolific Frio and Vicksburg sands underlying and surrounding the Clara Driscoll and Luby fields in Nueces County, Texas. These sandstone reservoirs produce on structures readily defined by seismic and remain largely untested below the existing producing reservoirs in the fields at depths ranging from 6,000 feet to 13,000 feet. At December 31, 2003, our estimated proved reserves in the Pebble Beach/Luby fields totaled 3,000 MMcf or 4% of our estimated proved reserves of natural gas. Net daily production during the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, averaged 96 Bbls of oil and 6,977 Mcf of gas, or 1,259 Boe to our interests. We own 20,000 gross and 16,000 net acres and have acquired 95 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data in these two projects. From the proprietary 3-D data, we have identified 22 development and 7 exploratory locations for drilling from the proprietary 3-D data.
During 2003, we drilled 12 wells in the Pebble Beach and Luby projects with 10 being completed as producing wells and two dry holes. Two significant recompletions were also conducted during the year. The drilling and recompletions activity increased net average daily production by 140% over 2002 production levels. We also expanded our exploration efforts in the Nueces County area by acquiring an additional 65 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data across our new Oakmont Project. The seismic data has identified several potential drilling opportunities in the Oakmont Project and we have leased or are in the process of acquiring leases on each. Efforts to expand our activity in South Texas are ongoing and we expect to drill five development and two exploratory wells in the Pebble Beach and Luby projects during 2004.
Jefferson Island. Our Jefferson Island project is an underdeveloped salt dome that produces from a series of prolific Miocene sands. To date the field has produced 111.2 MMBoe from approximately one quarter of the total dome. The remaining three quarters of the faulted dome complex are essentially unexplored or underdeveloped. We control 1,300 gross and 1,000 net acres in the project and own 35 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic covering the property. During 2003, we drilled one dry hole and conducted 1 recompletion of a successful exploratory well originally completed in 2002. This recompletion proved successful flowing 320 barrels of oil per day. The exploratory well was successful and penetrated 180 feet of pay in multiple sands underlying a 3-D imaged salt overhang along the flank of the salt dome complex. The discovery is quite significant in that it confirmed our ability to image the salt and encounter pay in sand reservoirs not previously known to produce in the field. We have identified two additional exploratory drilling locations and plan to drill one development and one exploratory well in 2004.
Gulf of Mexico. In July 1999 we elected to expand our drilling program into the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, or GOM through a joint venture arrangement with Challenger Minerals, Inc. This was part of our ongoing strategy to build our opportunity base of high rate of return, natural gas reserves in the Gulf Coast region. The expansion into the GOM has proven successful and as of December 31, 2003, we have participated in 19 wells that have resulted in 10 producers, eight dry holes, and one well junked and abandoned. During 2003, we participated in three wells of which two were completed as producers and one was junked and abandoned with plans to be redrilled in 2004. We currently have seven wells in inventory of which five are to be drilled during 2004. Working interest should average approximately 20% with risked investments limited to approximately $1.0 million per well.
NET PRODUCTION, UNIT PRICES AND COSTS
The following table presents certain information with respect to our oil and gas production, prices and costs attributable to all oil and gas property interests owned by us for the periods shown:
PRODUCING WELLS
The following table sets forth the number of our productive wells, exclusive of injection wells and water wells, as of December 31, 2003. In the table "gross" refers to total wells in which we had a working interest and "net" refers to gross wells multiplied by our working interest.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2003. In the table "gross" refers to total acres in which we had a working interest and "net" refers to gross acres multiplied by our working interest.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth our drilling activity on its properties for the periods indicated. In the table "gross" refers to total wells in which we had a working interest and "net" refers to gross wells multiplied by our working interest.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table summarizes the estimates of our net proved oil and gas reserves and the related PV-10 of such reserves at the dates shown. Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers prepared the reserve and present value data with respect to certain of our oil and gas properties, which represented 97.6% of our PV-10 at December 31, 2001, 89.0% of our PV-10 at December 31, 2002, and 83.4% of our PV-10 at December 31, 2003. We prepared the reserve and present value data on all other properties.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows there from are affected by oil and gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploitation and development activities, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
GAS GATHERING, MARKETING AND PROCESSING SEGMENT
GAS GATHERING SYSTEMS
Eagle Chief Gas Plant and Gas Gathering System. In 1995 we completed construction and commenced operation of our Eagle Chief Gas Processing Plant. The plant is utilized to process gas purchased at the wellhead by us from various producers and is located in Northwest Oklahoma near the town of Carmen. We gather casinghead gas and natural gas from more than 300 wells that are connected to the system. The gas is gathered through low-pressure pipelines and is redelivered to the plant for processing. Natural gas liquids are extracted from the gas stream at the plant. The liquids are transported via pipeline to Koch's Medford facility for fractionation. Residue gas is sold at the tailgate of the plant to either intrastate or interstate pipelines. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under market sensitive percent-of-proceeds-index contracts or fee-based contracts. Under percent-of-proceeds-index contracts, we receive a fixed percentage of the monthly index posted price for natural gas and a fixed percentage of the resale price for natural gas liquids. We generally receive between 20% and 30% of the posted index price for natural gas sales and 20% to 30% of the proceeds received from the natural gas liquids. Under the fee-based contracts, we receive a fixed rate per MMBTU for gas sold. This rate per MMBTU remains fixed regardless of commodity prices.
Matli Gas Plant and Gas Gathering System. In 2003 we completed construction and commenced operation of our Matli Gas Processing Plant. The plant is utilized to process gas purchased at the wellhead by us from various producers and is located in Central Oklahoma near the town of Watonga. The system, which was constructed in 1998, gathers natural gas from more than 35 wells that are connected to the system. The gas is gathered through low-pressure pipelines and is redelivered to the plant for processing. Natural gas liquids are extracted from the gas stream at the plant. The liquids are transported via truck to Koch's Medford facility for fractionation. Residue gas is sold on an intrastate pipeline located at the tailgate of the plant. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under fee-based contracts. Under the fee-based contracts, we receive a fixed rate per MMBTU for gas sold. This rate per MMBTU remains fixed regardless of commodity prices.
Badlands Gas Plant & Gas Gathering System. In 1998 we completed construction and commenced operation of our Badlands Gas Processing Plant. The plant, which is located in North Dakota, is utilized to process gas purchased at the wellhead by us from various producers that are located in North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana. We gather casinghead gas and natural gas from more than 150 wells that are connected to the system. The gas is gathered through low-pressure pipelines and is redelivered to the plant for processing. Natural gas liquids are extracted from the gas stream at the plant. Propane is derived from the fractionation of natural gas liquids at the plant. The propane is sold to various end-users at the tailgate of the plant. The remaining natural gas liquids are transported via truck for fractionation. Residue gas is sold at the tailgate of the plant to end-users or on the interstate pipeline located at the tailgate of the plant. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under market sensitive percent-of-proceeds-index contracts. Under percent-of-proceeds-index contracts, we receive a fixed percentage of the monthly index posted price for natural gas and a fixed percentage of the resale price for natural gas liquids. We generally receive between 0% and 50% of the posted index price for natural gas sales and 50% to 90% of the proceeds received from the natural gas liquids.
OIL AND GAS MARKETING
Our oil and gas production is sold primarily under market-sensitive or spot price contracts. We sell substantially all of our casinghead gas to purchasers under varying percentage-of-proceeds contracts. By the terms of these contracts, we receive a fixed percentage of the resale price received by the purchaser for sales of natural gas and natural gas liquids recovered after gathering and processing our gas. We normally receive between 80% and 100% of the proceeds from natural gas sales and from 80% to 100% of the proceeds from natural gas liquids sales received by our purchasers when the products are resold. The natural gas and natural gas liquids sold by these purchasers are sold primarily based on spot market prices. The revenues received by us from the sale of natural gas liquids are included in natural gas sales. As a result of the natural gas liquids contained in our production, we have historically improved our price realization on our natural gas sales as compared to Henry Hub or other natural gas price indexes. For the year ended December 31, 2003, purchases of our natural gas production by Crosstek Corpus Christi accounted for 30% of our total gas sales for such period and for the same period purchases of our oil production by Link Energy Corporation, formerly EOTT Energy Corporation, accounted for 65% of our total produced oil sales. Due to the availability of other markets, we do not believe that the loss of any crude oil or gas customer would have a material effect on our results of operations.
Periodically we utilize various price risk management strategies to fix the price of a portion of our future oil and gas production. We do not establish hedges in excess of our expected production. These strategies customarily emphasize forward-sale, fixed-price contracts for physical delivery of a specified quantity of production or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above what we pay the hedging partner and below which the hedging partner pays us. These contracts allow us to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and gas prices to be received for our hedged production and benefit us when market prices are less than the fixed prices provided in our forward-sale contracts. However, we do not benefit from market prices that are higher than the fixed prices in such contracts for our hedged production. In August 1998, we began engaging in oil trading arrangements as part of our oil marketing activities. Under these arrangements, we contracted to purchase oil from one source and to sell oil to an unrelated purchaser, usually at disparate prices. During the second quarter of 2002, we discontinued crude oil trading contracts.
ITEM 3.