ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Until 1993, the Company's oil and gas activities were focused in the Mid-Continent. In 1993 the Company made the strategic move to increase oil production and reserves by expanding its development and exploration activities into the Rocky Mountains. The Company currently controls approximately 465,000 net acres in the Rocky Mountains and is ranked among the largest oil producers in the Rocky Mountains. Continental's oil production is characterized by long lived, stable production with high secondary and enhanced oil recovery potential which perpetuates production and cash flow from its properties. Approximately 68% of its estimated proved reserves on a BOE basis at December 31, 1998 were oil. To achieve a more balanced reserve mix, the Company is focusing on generating an increased inventory of natural gas drilling opportunities in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast. Currently, 86% of the Company's drilling inventory is focused on further expansion and development of its Rocky Mountain oil fields, and the remaining 14% is focused on natural gas projects in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast. The Company's Gulf Coast activities are conducted onshore the Texas and Louisiana coasts. In the Gulf Coast, the Company holds approximately 9,400 net leasehold acres and has identified 28 potential drilling locations.
The following table provides information with respect to the Company's net proved reserves for its principal oil and gas properties as of December 31, 1998:
ROCKY MOUNTAINS
The Company's Rocky Mountain properties are located primarily in the Williston Basin of North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana and in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. Estimated proved reserves for its Rocky Mountains properties at December 31, 1998 totaled 20.2 MMBoe and represented 56.1% of the Company's PV-10. Approximately 96% of these estimated proved reserves are proved developed. During the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, the average net daily production was 8,930 Bbls of oil and 1,650 Mcf of natural gas, or 9,205 Boe per day from the Rocky Mountain properties excluding the Worland Field Properties which were purchased June 1, 1998. As of the June 1, 1998 acquisition date, the Worland properties added 1,138 Bbls of oil per day and 2,186 Mcf of natural gas, or 1,502 Boe per day. As of December 31, 1998 the company is producing approximately 9,550 Boe per day with another 750 Boe per day shut in due to the low oil prices. The Company's leasehold interests include 141,378 net developed and 323,606 net undeveloped acres, which represent 26% and 59% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively. This leasehold is expected to be developed utilizing 3-D seismic, precision horizontal drilling and HPAI, where applicable. As of December 31, 1998, the Company's Rocky Mountain properties included an inventory of 210 development and 12 exploratory drilling locations.
WILLISTON BASIN
CEDAR HILLS FIELD. The Cedar Hills Field was discovered in November 1994 and is still under development. During the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, the Cedar Hills Field properties produced 6,778 net Boe per day to the Company interests and represented 41% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 1998. The Cedar Hills Field produces oil from the Red River "B" Formation, a thin (eight feet), non-fractured, blanket-type, dolomite reservoir found at depths of 8,000 to 9,500 feet. All wells drilled by the Company in the Red River "B" Formation were drilled exclusively with precision horizontal drilling technology. The Cedar Hills Field covers approximately 200 square miles and has a known oil column of 1,000 feet. Through December 31, 1998, the Company drilled or participated in 153 gross (103 net) horizontal wells, of which 146 were successfully completed, for a 95% net success rate.
The Company believes that the Red River "B" formation in the Cedar Hills Field is well suited for enhanced secondary recovery using HPAI technology. On four nearby HPAI projects operated by the Company, HPAI technology has increased oil recoveries 200% to 300% over primary recovery with ultimate recoveries reaching up to 40% of the original oil in place. The Company intends to initiate installation of HPAI secondary recovery on certain of its Cedar Hills Field properties upon completion of field unitization, which is expected to occur in 1999. The Company believes that HPAI could increase its total recovery from the Cedar Hills Field by as much as 75 million net barrels. On May 15, 1998, the Company and Burlington Resources Oil and Gas Company ("Burlington") entered into a definitive agreement to exchange undivided interests so that effective December 1, 1998 the Company will own working interests ranging from 90% to 92% in approximately 65,000 gross (59,000 net) leasehold acres in the northern half of the Cedar Hills Field. As a result of the agreement, the Company will enhance its ability to unitize all interests in the northern half of the Cedar Hills Field, which is necessary in order for the Company to initiate the planned HPAI enhanced recovery operations in the Cedar Hills Field. On August 19, 1998, the Company instituted a declaratory judgment action against Burlington in the District Court of Garfield County, Oklahoma (Case No. CJ-98-613-03) alleging that Burlington provided false and misleading information regarding certain of Burlington's oil and gas properties to a third party consultant charged with determining the relative values of oil and gas properties owned by the Company and Burlington which served as the basis for the exchange of interests. The Company also claims that the consultant relied on such false and misleading information in determining the relative fair values of the oil and gas interests. The Company seeks a declaratory judgment determining that it is excused from further performance under its exchange agreement with Burlington. Burlington has denied the Company's allegations and seeks specific performance by the Company, plus monetary damages of an unspecified amount. The progress on the Cedar Hills Unitization process is expected to continue, as the North Dakota Industrial Commission has called a hearing for March 31, 1999 to discuss the status of the unitization process. The timing and probability of unitization will only be enhanced by the state's objective to invoke their wide range of authority, including the ability to restrict production, which will be targeted towards preserving the value of the field and ensuring that secondary recovery reserves are captured.
As of December 31, 1998, there were 7 horizontal drilling locations in inventory, all of which are development well locations.
MEDICINE POLE HILLS, BUFFALO, WEST BUFFALO AND SOUTH BUFFALO UNITS. In 1995, the Company acquired the following interests in four production units in the Williston Basin: Medicine Pole Hills (63%); Buffalo (86%); West Buffalo (82%); and South Buffalo (85%). During the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, these units produced 2,147 Boe per day, net to the Company's interests, and represented .7 MMBoe or 4% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 1998. These units are HPAI enhanced recovery projects that produce from the Red River "B" Formation and are operated by the Company. These units were discovered and developed with conventional vertical drilling. The oldest vertical well in these units has been producing for 44 years, demonstrating the long lived production characteristic of the Red River "B" Formation. There are 96 producing wells in these units and current estimates of remaining reserve life range from four to 13 years. The Company plans to further develop these units and enhance production by drilling strategically placed horizontal wells. There are currently 38 development drilling locations identified in these units.
LUSTRE AND MIDFORK FIELDS. In January 1992, the Company acquired the Lustre and Midfork Fields which, during the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, produced 280 Bbls per day, net to the Company's interests. Wells in both the Lustre and Midfork Fields produce from the Charles "C" dolomite, at depths of 5,500 to 6,000 feet. Historically, production from the Charles "C" has a low daily production rate and is long lived. There are currently 21 wells producing in the two fields, and no secondary recovery is underway in either field. The Company currently owns 87,000 net acres in the Lustre and Midfork Fields and plans to utilize 3-D seismic combined with horizontal drilling to further exploit the Charles "C" reservoir, and to generate drilling opportunities for deeper objectives underlying the Lustre and Midfork Fields as well as guide exploration for new fields on its substantial undeveloped leasehold.
BIG HORN BASIN
On May 14, 1998, the Company consummated the purchase for $86.5 million of producing and non-producing oil and gas properties and certain other related assets in the Worland Field, effective as of June 1, 1998. Subsequently, and effective as of June 1, 1998, the Company sold an undivided 50% interest in the Worland Field properties (excluding inventory and certain equipment) to Harold Hamm, the Company's principal shareholder, for $42.6 million. The sale of the 50% interest in the Worland Field properties was effected to reduce the size of the Company's exposure in one area, to reduce the amount of future capital expenditures by the Company and to reduce the Company's investment in oil, rather than natural gas, properties. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." The Worland Field properties cover 40,000 net leasehold acres in the Worland Field of the Big Horn Basin in northern Wyoming, of which 16,000 net acres are held by production and 24,000 net acres are non- producing or prospective. Approximately two-thirds of the Company's producing leases in the Worland Field are within five federal units, the largest of which (the Cottonwood Creek Unit) has been producing for over 40 years. All of the units produce principally from the Phosphoria formation, which is the most prolific oil producing formation in the Worland Field. Four of the units are unitized as to all depths, with the Cottonwood Creek Field Extension (Phosphoria) Unit being unitized only as to the Phosphoria formation. The Company is the operator of all five of the federal units. The Company also operates 40 of the 60 producing wells located on non-unitized acreage. The Company's Worland Field properties include interests in 280 producing wells, 260 of which are operated by the Company.
As of December 31, 1998, the estimated net proved reserves attributable to the Company's Worland Field properties were approximately 7.6 MMBoe, with an estimated PV-10 of $12.4 million. Approximately 80% of these proved reserves consist of oil, principally in the Phosphoria formation. Oil produced from the Company's Worland Field properties is low gravity, sour (high sulphur content) crude, resulting in a lower sales price per barrel than non- sour crude, and is sold into a Marathon pipeline or is trucked from the lease. Gas produced from the Worland Field properties is also sour, resulting in a sale price that is less per Mcf than non-sour natural gas. From the effective date of the Worland Field Acquisition through September 30, 1998, the average price of crude oil produced by the Worland Field properties was $5.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price of crude oil. The Company entered into a contract effective October 1, 1998 through March 31, 1999 to sell crude oil produced from its Worland Field properties at an average price of $3.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price. Subsequent to these contracts, and effective February 1, 1999 the Company entered into a contract to sell the Worland Field production at a gravity adjusted price of $1.67 per barrel less than the monthly NYMEX average price. The new contract will expire March 1, 2000.
In addition to the proved reserves, the Company has identified 162 development drilling locations on its Worland Field properties, to further develop and exploit the undeveloped portion of the Worland Field. Over 100 wells have been identified for acid fracture stimulation, most of which have been classified as having proved developed non-producing reserves. The Company believes that secondary and tertiary recovery projects will have significant potential for the addition of reserves. In addition, eight exploratory drilling prospects have been identified on the Company's Worland Field properties in which prospects the Company and its principal shareholder, together, have a majority leasehold position, allowing for further exploration for and exploitation of the Phosphoria, Tensleep, Frontier and Muddy formations and other prospective formations for additional reserves.
MID-CONTINENT
The Company's Mid-Continent properties are located primarily in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma, southwestern Kansas and the Texas Panhandle, and to a lesser extent, in the Arkoma Basin of southeastern Oklahoma ("Arkoma Basin"). At December 31, 1998, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent totaled 8.8 MMBoe, representing 43.5% of the Company's PV-10 at such date. At December 31, 1998 approximately 78% of the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent were natural gas. Net daily production from these properties during 1998 averaged 1,302 Bbls of oil and 15,172 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,830 Boe to the Company's interests. The Company's Mid-Continent leasehold position includes 67,712 net developed and 8,927 net undeveloped acres, representing 12% and 2% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively, at December 31, 1998.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company's Mid-Continent properties included an inventory of five development drilling locations, all of them in the Anadarko Basin.
ANADARKO BASIN. The Anadarko Basin properties contained 93% of the Company's estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent and 39.6% of the Company's total PV-10 at December 31, 1998 and at such date, represented 68% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. During the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, net daily production from its Anadarko Basin properties averaged 1,231 Bbls of oil and 13,815 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,533 Boe to the Company's interest from 613 gross (366 net) producing wells, 457 of which are operated by the Company. The Anadarko Basin wells produce from a variety of sands and carbonates in both stratigraphic and structural traps in the Arbuckle, Oil Creek, Viola, Mississippian, Springer, Morrow, Red Ford, Oswego, Skinner and Tonkawa formations, at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. These properties are currently being re-evaluated for further development drilling and work over potential.
ARKOMA BASIN. In the Arkoma Basin, the Company is focused on coal bed methane, where it owns approximately 12,000 acres and has 44 producing wells from the Hartshorne coal at depths of 2,500 to 3,500 feet. As part of the company's strategic plan to divest of non-core assets for the purpose of allocating resources to higher reserve growth projects, all oil and gas properties in the Arkoma Basin, along with the Rattlesnake and Enterprise Gas Gathering System, are being marketed for sale. The PV-10 of the reserves on these properties is approximately $4.2 million, whereas the Company has an offer of intent to purchase for $5.8 million from a third party. Closing on this transaction is scheduled for April 1, 1999.
GULF COAST
The Company's Gulf Coast activities are located in the Jefferson Island Project, Iberia Parish , Louisiana and in the Pebble Beach Project , Nueces Co., Texas. These properties currently provide no significant PV-10 value but do represent significant drilling opportunities for 1999 and beyond. The Company's Gulf Coast leasehold position includes 1,235 net developed and 8,169 net undeveloped acres representing 0.6% and 2.4% of the Company's total leasehold respectively. From a combined total of 60 square miles of proprietary 3-D data , 21 development and 7 exploratory locations have been identified for drilling on these projects to date.
JEFFERSON ISLAND. The Jefferson Island project is an underdeveloped salt dome that produces from a series of prolific Miocene sands. To date the field has produced 65.2 MMBOE, from approximately one quarter of the total dome. The remaining three quarters of the faulted dome complex are essentially unexplored or underdeveloped. The Company controls 5,062 gross (2,913 net) acres over the entire salt dome and has identified 19 development and 1 exploratory drilling locations to date from 35 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic. The Company has an agreement with a third party who in return for performing certain obligations will earn 50% of the project. These obligations require the third party to pay 100% of seismic costs and 100% of drilling costs for the first 5 wells as well as provide the Company with a 16% carried interest in each of the first 5 wells. Drilling is scheduled to begin early second quarter 1999.
PEBBLE BEACH. At the Pebble Beach project the Company owns 7,078 gross (6,491 net) acres and is targeting the prolific Frio and Vicksburg sands underlying the Clara Driscoll field and surrounding area. These sandstone reservoirs are found at depths of 5000' to 9500' and produce on structures readily defined with 3-D seismic. Using 20 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic, 2 development and 5 exploratory drilling locations have been identified. Drilling should begin third quarter 1999.
NET PRODUCTION, UNIT PRICES AND COSTS
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production, prices and costs attributable to all oil and gas property interests owned by the Company for the periods shown:
PRODUCING WELLS
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which the Company owned an interest as of December 31, 1998:
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the Company's developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 1998:
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth the Company's drilling activity on its properties for the periods indicated:
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table summarizes the estimates of the Company's net proved reserves and the related PV-10 of such reserves at the dates shown. Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers ("Ryder Scott") prepared the reserve and present value data with respect to the Company's oil and gas properties which represented 100% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1996, 72% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1997 and 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1998. The Company prepared the reserve and present value data on all other properties.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom are affected by oil and gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. The Company's future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon its level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
GAS GATHERING SYSTEMS
The Company's gas gathering systems are owned by CGI. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under either market-sensitive percent-of-proceeds-index contracts or keep- whole gas purchase contracts. Under percent-of-proceeds-index contracts, CGI receives a fixed percentage of the monthly index posted price for natural gas and a fixed percentage of the resale price for natural gas liquids. CGI generally receives between 20% and 30% of the posted index price for natural gas sales and from 20% to 30% of the proceeds received from natural gas liquids sales. Under keep-whole gas purchase contracts, CGI retains all natural gas liquids recovered by its processing facilities and keeps the producers whole by returning to the producers at the tailgate of its plants an amount of residue gas equal on a BTU basis to the natural gas received at the plant inlet. The keep-whole component of the contract permits the Company to benefit when the value of natural gas liquids is greater as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream.
OIL AND GAS MARKETING
The Company's oil and gas production is sold primarily under market sensitive or spot price contracts. The Company sells substantially all of its casinghead gas to purchasers under varying percentage-of-proceeds contracts. By the terms of these contracts, the Company receives a fixed percentage of the resale price received by the purchaser for sales of natural gas and natural gas liquids recovered after gathering and processing the Company's gas. The Company normally receives between 80% and 100% of the proceeds from natural gas sales and from 80% to 100% of the proceeds from natural gas liquids sales received by the Company's purchasers when the products are resold. The natural gas and natural gas liquids sold by these purchasers are sold primarily based on spot market prices. The revenues received by the Company from the sale of natural gas liquids is included in natural gas sales. As a result of the natural gas liquids contained in the Company's production, the Company has historically improved its price realization on its natural gas sales as compared to Henry Hub or other natural gas price indexes. For the year ended December 31, 1998, purchases of the Company's natural gas production by GPM Gas Corporation accounted for 11.5% of the Company's total gas sales for such period and for the same period purchases of the Company's oil production by Koch Oil Company accounted for 79.8% of the Company's total produced oil sales. Beginning with December 1998 production, Koch Oil Company was replaced by EOTT as the major purchaser of the Company's crude oil production. Due to the availability of other markets, the Company does not believe that the loss of EOTT or any other crude oil or gas customer would have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.
Periodically the Company utilizes various hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and gas production. The Company does not establish hedges in excess of its expected production. These strategies customarily emphasize forward-sale, fixed-price contracts for physical delivery of a specified quantity of production or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which the Company pays the hedging partner and below which the Company is paid by the hedging partner. These contracts allow the Company to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and gas prices to be received for its hedged production and benefit the Company when market prices are less than the fixed prices provided in its forward-sale contracts. However, the Company does not benefit from market prices that are higher than the fixed prices in such contracts for its hedged production. In August 1998, the Company began engaging in oil trading arrangements as part of its oil marketing activities. Under these arrangements, the Company contracts to purchase oil from one source and to sell oil to an unrelated purchaser, usually at disparate prices.
ITEM 3.