ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company's oil and gas properties are located in selected portions of the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountains and Gulf Coast regions. Through 1993, most of the Company's activity and growth was focused in the Mid-Continent region. In 1993 the Company expanded its drilling and acquisition activities into the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions seeking added opportunity for production and reserve growth. The Rocky Mountain region was targeted for oil reserves with good secondary recovery potential and therefore, long life reserves. The Gulf Coast region was targeted for natural gas reserves with shorter reserve life but high current cash flow. As of December 31, 2001, the Company's estimated net proved reserves from all properties totaled 68.4 MMBoe with 84% of the reserves located in the Rocky Mountains, 16% in the Mid-Continent and 1% in the Gulf Coast regions. At December 31, 2001, 87% of the Company's net proved reserves were oil and 13% were natural gas. The Company's oil reserves are confined primarily to the Rocky Mountain region and its natural gas reserves are primarily from the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions. Approximately $70 million, or 77%, of the Company's projected $91.3 million capital expenditures for 2002 are focused on expansion and development of its oil properties in the Rocky Mountain region while the remaining $20.5 million, or 23%, is focused primarily on natural gas projects in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.
The following table provides information with respect to the Company's net proved reserves for its principal oil and gas properties as of December 31, 2001:
ROCKY MOUNTAINS
The Company's Rocky Mountain properties are located primarily in the Williston Basin of North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana and in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. Estimated proved reserves for its Rocky Mountains properties at December 31, 2001, totaled 57.3 MMBoe and represented 70% of the Company's PV-10. Approximately 52% of these estimated proved reserves are proved developed. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, the average net daily production was 7,702 Bbls of oil and 4,832 Mcf of natural gas, or 8,514 Boe per day from the Rocky Mountain properties. The Company's leasehold interests include 164,598 net developed and 237,133 net undeveloped acres, which represent 30% and 42% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively. This leasehold is expected to be developed utilizing 3-D seismic, precision horizontal drilling and secondary recovery technologies, where applicable. As of December 31, 2001, the Company's Rocky Mountain properties included an inventory of 93 development and 17 exploratory drilling locations.
WILLISTON BASIN
CEDAR HILLS FIELD. The Cedar Hills Field was discovered in November 1994. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, the Cedar Hills Field properties produced 2,943 net Boe per day to the Company interests and represented 49% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. The Cedar Hills Field produces oil from the Red River "B" formation, a thin (eight feet), non-fractured, blanket-type, dolomite reservoir found at depths of 8,000 to 9,500 feet. All wells drilled by the Company in the Red River "B" formation were drilled exclusively with precision horizontal drilling technology. The Cedar Hills Field covers approximately 200 square miles and has a known oil column of 1,000 feet. Through December 31, 2001, the Company drilled or participated in 167 gross (117 net) horizontal wells, of which 160 were successfully completed, for a 96% net success rate. The Company believes that the Red River "B" formation in the Cedar Hills Field is well suited for enhanced secondary recovery using either HPAI and/or traditional water flooding technology. Both technologies have been applied successfully in adjacent secondary recovery units for over 30 years and have proven to increase oil recoveries from the Red River "B" formation by 200% to 300% over primary recovery. The Company is proficient using either technology and is in the process of implementing both as part of its secondary recovery operations in the Cedar Hills Field. Effective March 1, 2001, the Company obtained approval for two secondary recovery units in the Cedar Hills Field; the Cedar Hills North-Red River "B" Unit ("CHNRRU") is located in Bowman and Slope Counties, North Dakota and the West Cedar Hills Unit ("WCHU") located in Fallon County, Montana. The Company owns 95% of the working interest in the CHNRRU and is the operator of the unit. The CHNRRU contains 79 wells and 49,679 acres. The Company owns 100% of the working interest in the WCHU and is the unit operator. The WCHU contains 10 wells and 7,774 acres. An estimated $114.0 million will need to be invested over the next two years to fully implement the Company's secondary recovery operations in the Cedar Hills Field. Approximately $65 million will be invested in 2002 of which $41 million is for infill drilling, $12.9 million for compressors and distribution systems, $6.4 million for electric facilities, $2.9 million for water injection facilities, and $1.8 million for motor conversions. By year end 2002, the Company expects to have completed 47 of the 79 required injectors and installed facilities to begin injection in approximately 60% of the units. Approximately $49.0 million will be spent in 2003 to finish drilling injectors and add additional compression. With secondary recovery operations underway, the SEC and independent auditors approved adding 25.8 MMBoe of proved, undeveloped reserves from the Cedar Hills to the Company's proved reserves. This represents 38% of the Company's estimated proved reserves and $67.4 million, or 22%, of the PV-10 of the Company's proved reserves at December 31, 2001. The Company believes this represents approximately 56% of the reserves it expects are ultimately recoverable from the field.
MEDICINE POLE HILLS, MEDICINE POLE HILLS WEST, BUFFALO, WEST BUFFALO AND SOUTH BUFFALO UNITS. In 1995, the Company acquired the following interests in four production units in the Williston Basin: Medicine Pole Hills (63%), Buffalo (86%), West Buffalo (82%), and South Buffalo (85%). During the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, these units produced 2,815 Boe per day, net to the Company's interests, and represented 7.8 MMBoe, or 12% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. These units are HPAI enhanced recovery projects that produce from the Red River "B" formation and are operated by the Company. All were discovered and developed with conventional vertical drilling. The oldest vertical well in these units has been producing for 46 years, demonstrating the long-lived production characteristic of the Red River "B" formation. There are 133 producing wells in these units and current estimates of remaining reserve life range from four to 13 years. The Company subsequently expanded the Medicine Pole Hills Unit through horizontal drilling into the Medicine Pole Hills West Unit ("MPHWU") which became effective April 1, 2000. The MPHWU produces from 25 wells and encompasses an additional 22 square miles of productive Red River "B" reservoir. The Company owns approximately 80% of the MPHWU and began secondary injection November 22, 2000. The MPHWU was the first in a scheduled two-phase expansion of the Medicine Pole Hills Unit. Phase two of the expansion plan was successfully completed during 2001 delineating another 20 square miles of productive Red River B reservoir through horizontal drilling. The Company expects to have this area unitized as the Medicine Pole Hills South Unit by the fourth quarter of 2002, and conceivably under injection by mid-year 2003.
LUSTRE AND MIDFORK FIELDS. In January 1992, the Company acquired the Lustre and Midfork Fields which, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, produced 316 Bbls per day, net to the Company's interests. Wells in both the Lustre and Midfork Fields produce from the Charles "C" dolomite, at depths of 5,500 to 6,000 feet. Historically, production from the Charles "C" has a low daily production rate and is long lived. There are currently 38 wells producing in the two fields. No secondary recovery operations are underway in either field at this time. The Company currently owns 74,594 net acres in the Lustre and Midfork Field area.
During 2001, the Company acquired an additional 60 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data coverage over the Lustre Field giving the Company a total of 100 square miles of 3-D seismic in the area. A significant number of additional development and exploratory drilling locations have been identified from this proprietary data for future drilling. The Company also began researching the application of its HPAI secondary recovery techniques to increase oil recoveries from the Lustre Field. If supported by the research, the Company plans to begin the unitization process in 2002. The Company currently has 12 locations selected for drilling and plans to drill two to four of these locations in 2002.
BIG HORN BASIN
On May 14, 1998, the Company consummated the purchase for $86.5 million of producing and non-producing oil and gas properties and certain other related assets in the Worland Field, effective as of June 1, 1998. Subsequently, and effective as of June 1, 1998, the Company sold an undivided 50% interest in the Worland Field properties (excluding inventory and certain equipment) to the Company's principal stockholder, for $42.6 million. On December 31, 1999, the Company's principal stockholder contributed the undivided 50% interest in the Worland Properties along with debt of $18,600,000. The stockholder contributed $22,461,096 of the properties as additional paid-in-capital and the Company assumed his outstanding debt for the balance of the purchase price. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." The Worland Field properties cover 84,905 net leasehold acres in the Worland Field of the Big Horn Basin in northern Wyoming, of which 29,718 net acres are held by production and 55,187 net acres are non-producing or prospective. Approximately two-thirds of the Company's producing leases in the Worland Field are within five federal units, the largest of which, the Cottonwood Creek Unit, has been producing for more than 40 years. All of the units produce principally from the Phosphoria formation, which is the most prolific oil producing formation in the Worland Field. Four of the units are unitized as to all depths, with the Cottonwood Creek Field Extension (Phosphoria) Unit being unitized only as to the Phosphoria formation. The Company is the operator of all five of the federal units. The Company also operates 38 producing wells located on non-unitized acreage. The Company's Worland Field properties include interests in 293 producing wells, 256 of which are operated by the Company.
As of December 31, 2001, the estimated net proved reserves attributable to the Company's Worland Field properties were approximately 6.1 MMBoe, with an estimated PV-10 of $19.0 million. Approximately 80%, by volume, of these proved reserves consist of oil, principally in the Phosphoria formation. Oil produced from the Company's Worland Field properties is low gravity, sour (high sulphur content) crude, resulting in a lower sales price per barrel than non-sour crude, and is sold into a Marathon pipeline or is trucked from the lease. Gas produced from the Worland Field properties is also sour, resulting in a sale price that is less per Mcf than non-sour natural gas. From the effective date of the Worland Field Acquisition through September 30, 1998, the average price of crude oil produced by the Worland Field properties was $5.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price of crude oil. The Company entered into a contract effective December 1, 2001, through December 31, 2001, to sell crude oil produced from its Worland Field properties at an average price of $6.00 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price. Subsequent to these contracts, and effective January 1, 2002, the Company entered into a contract to sell the Worland Field production at a gravity adjusted price of $4.21 per barrel less than the monthly NYMEX average price. This contract will expire April 1, 2002, and has been renegotiated. The Company anticipates the spread from NYMEX will increase slightly with the new contract.
The Company believes that secondary and tertiary recovery projects have significant potential for the addition of reserves in the Worland Field and continues to seek the best method for increasing recovery from the producing reservoirs. Currently the Company has one Tensleep waterflood project and one pilot imbibition flood underway. During 2002, the Company plans to expand its secondary recovery efforts and begin injecting water in a selected portion of the field using a pressure control technique it believes will produce the best secondary results. This secondary operation should effect production in as many as 20 wells and if successful will be expanded. This secondary operation is being partially funded by the Department of Energy. In addition to the secondary recovery operations, the Company has identified three potential development drilling locations and 13 wells for acid fracture treatment to enhance production.
MID-CONTINENT
The Company's Mid-Continent properties are located primarily in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. During 2001, the Company expanded its operations in the Mid-Continent through successful exploration in the Black Warrior Basin in Mississippi and the acquisition of Farrar Oil Company's assets in the Anadarko and Illinois Basins. At December 31, 2001, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent totaled 10.6 MMBoe and represented 28% of the Company's PV-10. At December 31, 2001, approximately 72% of the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent were natural gas. Net daily production from these properties during 2001 averaged 1,708 Bbls of oil and 14,172 Mcf of natural gas, or 4,773 Boe to the Company's interests. The Company's Mid-Continent leasehold position includes 65,622 net developed and 35,203 net undeveloped acres, representing 12% and 6% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively, at December 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2001, the Company's Mid-Continent properties included an inventory of 22 development and 31 exploratory drilling locations.
ANADARKO BASIN. The Anadarko Basin properties contained 70% of the Company's estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent and 21% of the Company's total PV-10 at December 31, 2001, and represented 65% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, net daily production from its Anadarko Basin properties averaged 999 Bbls of oil and 12,574 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,095 Boe to the Company's interests from 711 gross (303 nets) producing wells, 339 of which are operated by the Company. The Anadarko Basin wells produce from a variety of sands and carbonates in both stratigraphic and structural traps in the Arbuckle, Oil Creek, Viola, Mississippian, Springer, Morrow, Red Fork, Oswego, Skinner and Tonkawa formations, at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. These properties have been a steady source of cash flow for the Company and are continually being developed by infill drilling, recompletions and workovers. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had identified 16 development and five exploratory drilling locations on its properties in the Anadarko Basin.
ILLINOIS BASIN. On July 9, 2001, the Company purchased the assets of Farrar Oil Company and its subsidiary, Har-Ken Oil Company, for $33.7 million under its newly formed subsidiary, Continental Resources of Illinois, Inc. ("CRII"). The Illinois Basin properties contained 24% of the Company's estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent and 6% of the Company's total PV-10 at December 31, 2001. Net daily production during the twelve months ended December 31, 2001, averaged 1,378 Bbls of oil and 241 Mcf of natural gas, or 1,418 Boe to the Company's interests from 690 gross (601 net) producing wells, 524 of which are operated by the Company. Approximately 70% of the Company's net oil production in this basin comes from 31 active secondary recovery projects. Company expertise resulting in very efficient operations combined with low decline rates makes most of the properties very long lived. Many of the projects have been active for over 15 years with many years of economic life remaining. During 2001, the Company installed one new project and expanded several others. At year end the Company was evaluating two properties for acquisition that had secondary recovery potential. Three new projects are planned for 2002. These properties are constantly being evaluated and we are continually performing numerous workovers and making injection enhancements. As of December 31, 2001 the Company had two development and six exploratory drilling locations in inventory.
BLACK WARRIOR BASIN. In April 2000, the Company began a grass roots effort to expand its exploration program into the Black Warrior Basin located in eastern Mississippi and western Alabama. The Company believes the Black Warrior Basin offers significant opportunity for growth and adds a component of low cost, high rate of return, shallow gas reserves to the Company's overall drilling program. Reservoirs are Pennsylvanian and Mississippian age sands found at depths of 2,500 feet to 4,500 feet with reserves of .75 Bcf per well on average. Competition in the basin is low which has enabled the Company to readily acquire leases on new projects and keep costs low. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had acquired 18,664 net acres on selected projects. The Company has also augmented its geological expertise by acquiring licenses to approximately 1,500 miles of 2-D seismic data across the basin. During 2001, the Company drilled its first six exploratory wells and established three producers for a 50% success rate. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had four development and 20 exploratory drilling locations in inventory and plans on drilling up to 10 wells in 2002 to continue developing acquired leasehold.
GULF COAST
The Company's Gulf Coast activities are located primarily in the Pebble Beach and Luby Projects in Nueces County, Texas and the Jefferson Island Project in Iberia Parish, Louisiana. The Company is also a partner in a joint venture arrangement with Challanger Minerals Inc. to locate and participate in drilling opportunities on the shallow shelf of the Gulf of Mexico. At December 31, 2001, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Gulf Coast totaled .5 MMBoe (79% gas) representing 2% of the Company's total PV-10 and 4% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. Net daily production from these properties is 149 Bbls of oil and 4,039 Mcf of natural gas or 822 Boe to the Company's interests from 33 wells. The Company's leasehold position includes 5,100 net developed and 16,387 net undeveloped acres representing 1% and 3% of the Company's total leasehold respectively. From a combined total of 95 square miles of proprietary 3-D data, 12 development and 22 exploratory locations have been identified for drilling on these projects.
PEBBLE BEACH/LUBY. The Pebble Beach/Luby projects target the prolific Frio and Vicksburg sands underlying and surrounding the Clara Driscoll and Luby fields in Nueces County, Texas. These sandstones reservoirs produce on structures readily defined by seismic and remain largely untested below the existing producing reservoirs in the fields at depths ranging from 6,000' to 13,000 feet. The Company owns 20,017 gross and 13,866 net acres and has acquired 95 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data in these two projects. From the proprietary 3-D data, the Company has identified 12 development and 10 exploratory locations for drilling. During 2002, the Company expects to drill six to 10 of these locations in the Pebble Beach/Luby projects and plans to acquire additional leasehold and approximately 25 square miles of new proprietary 3-D data in selected projects as part of its ongoing expansion in South Texas.
JEFFERSON ISLAND. The Jefferson Island project is an underdeveloped salt dome that produces from a series of prolific Miocene sands. To date the field has produced 65.3 MMBoe from approximately one quarter of the total dome. The remaining three quarters of the faulted dome complex are essentially unexplored or underdeveloped. The Company controls 4,910 gross and 3,415 net acres in the project and owns 35 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic covering the property through an agreement with a third party. Under the agreement, the third party had to pay 100% of costs for acquiring 3-D seismic and drill five wells, carrying the Company for 16% working interest at no cost, to earn 50% interest in the Jefferson Island project. During 2000, the third party completed its 3-D seismic and drilling obligation and earned 50% of the project. Out of the five wells drilled by the third party, two are commercial wells, two non commercial and one was a dry hole. With the third party's seismic and drilling obligations fulfilled, the Company regained control of drilling operations and drilled one exploratory well in 2001 seeking higher reserve potential. The exploratory well was successful and penetrated 180 feet of pay in multiple sands underlying a 3-D imaged salt overhang along the flank of the salt dome complex. The discovery is quite significant in that it confirmed our ability to image the salt and encountered pay in sand reservoirs not previously known to produce in the field. The well is currently being prepared for production tests. The Company has identified four additional exploratory drilling locations and plans to drill at least one in 2002.
GULF OF MEXICO. In July 1999 the Company elected to expand its drilling program into the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico ("GOM") though a joint venture arrangement with Challanger Minerals Inc. This was part of the Company's ongoing strategy to build its opportunity base of high rate of return, natural gas opportunities in the Gulf Coast region. The expansion into the GOM has proven successful and as of December 31, 2001, the Company has participated in 13 wells which have resulted in seven producers and six dry holes. The Company plans to continue its activity in the GOM as a non-operator, restricting its risked investments to approximately $750,000 per project. During 2001, the Company spent 15% of its drilling budget on opportunities in the GOM and expects to spend approximately the same percentage during 2002. The Company currently has five potential wells in inventory for 2002.
NET PRODUCTION, UNIT PRICES AND COSTS
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production, prices and costs attributable to all oil and gas property interests owned by the Company for the periods shown:
PRODUCING WELLS
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells, exclusive of injection wells and water wells, in which the Company owned an interest as of December 31, 2001:
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the Company's developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2001:
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth the Company's drilling activity on its properties for the periods indicated:
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table summarizes the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves and the related PV-10 of such reserves at the dates shown. Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers ("Ryder Scott") prepared the reserve and present value data with respect to the Company's oil and gas properties which represented 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1999, 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 2000, and 97.6% of the PV-10 at December 31, 2001. The Company prepared the reserve and present value data on all other properties.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom are affected by oil and gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. The Company's future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon its level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
GAS GATHERING SYSTEMS
The Company's gas gathering systems are owned by CGI. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under either market-sensitive percent-of-proceeds-index contracts or keep-whole gas purchase contracts or fee-based contracts. Under percent-of-proceeds-index contracts, CGI receives a fixed percentage of the monthly index posted price for natural gas and a fixed percentage of the resale price for natural gas liquids. CGI generally receives between 20% and 30% of the posted index price for natural gas sales and from 20% to 30% of the proceeds received from natural gas liquids sales. Under keep-whole gas purchase contracts, CGI retains all natural gas liquids recovered by its processing facilities and keeps the producers whole by returning to the producers at the tailgate of its plants an amount of residue gas equal on a BTU basis to the natural gas received at the plant inlet. The keep-whole component of the contract permits the Company to benefit when the value of natural gas liquids is greater as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. Under the fee-based contracts, CGI receives a fixed rate per MMBTU of gas purchased. This rate per MMBTU remains fixed regardless of commodity prices.
OIL AND GAS MARKETING
The Company's oil and gas production is sold primarily under market- sensitive or spot price contracts. The Company sells substantially all of its casinghead gas to purchasers under varying percentage-of-proceeds contracts. By the terms of these contracts, the Company receives a fixed percentage of the resale price received by the purchaser for sales of natural gas and natural gas liquids recovered after gathering and processing the Company's gas. The Company normally receives between 80% and 100% of the proceeds from natural gas sales and from 80% to 100% of the proceeds from natural gas liquids sales received by the Company's purchasers when the products are resold. The natural gas and natural gas liquids sold by these purchasers are sold primarily based on spot market prices. The revenues received by the Company from the sale of natural gas liquids are included in natural gas sales. As a result of the natural gas liquids contained in the Company's production, the Company has historically improved its price realization on its natural gas sales as compared to Henry Hub or other natural gas price indexes. For the year ended December 31, 2001, purchases of the Company's natural gas production by OneOk Field Services accounted for 12% of the Company's total gas sales for such period and for the same period purchases of the Company's oil production by EOTT Energy Corp. accounted for 64% of the Company's total produced oil sales. Due to the availability of other markets, the Company does not believe that the loss of any crude oil or gas customer would have a material effect on the Company's results of operations.
Periodically the Company utilizes various price risk management strategies to fix the price of a portion of its future oil and gas production. The Company does not establish hedges in excess of its expected production. These strategies customarily emphasize forward-sale, fixed-price contracts for physical delivery of a specified quantity of production or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which the Company pays the hedging partner and below which the Company is paid by the hedging partner. These contracts allow the Company to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and gas prices to be received for its hedged production and benefit the Company when market prices are less than the fixed prices provided in its forward-sale contracts. However, the Company does not benefit from market prices that are higher than the fixed prices in such contracts for its hedged production. In August 1998, the Company began engaging in oil trading arrangements as part of its oil marketing activities. Under these arrangements, the Company contracts to purchase oil from one source and to sell oil to an unrelated purchaser, usually at disparate prices. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company determined that it would no longer enter into crude oil trading contracts.
ITEM 3.