ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company's oil and gas properties are located in selected portions of the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountains and Gulf Coast regions. Through 1993, most of the Company's activity and growth was focused in the Mid-Continent region. In 1993 the Company expanded its drilling and acquisition activities into the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions seeking added opportunity for production and reserve growth. The Rocky Mountain region was targeted for oil reserves with good secondary recovery potential and therefore, long life reserves. The Gulf Coast region was targeted for natural gas reserves with shorter reserve life but high current cash flow. As of December 31, 2000, the Company's estimated net proved reserves from all properties totaled 45.2 MMBoe with 78% of the reserves located in the Rocky Mountains, 20% in the Mid-Continent and 2% in the Gulf Coast regions. At December 31, 2000, 78% of the Company's net proved reserves were oil and 22% were natural gas. The Company's oil reserves are confined primarily to the Rocky Mountain region and its natural gas reserves are primarily from the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions. Approximately 45% of the Company's projected drilling expenditures for 2001 are focused on expansion and development of its oil properties in the Rocky Mountain region while the remaining 55% is focused on natural gas projects in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.
The following table provides information with respect to the Company's net proved reserves for its principal oil and gas properties as of December 31, 2000:
ROCKY MOUNTAINS
The Company's Rocky Mountain properties are located primarily in the Williston Basin of North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana and in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming. Estimated proved reserves for its Rocky Mountains properties at December 31, 2000, totaled 35.2 MMBoe and represented 51% of the Company's PV-10. Approximately 94% of these estimated proved reserves are proved developed. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, the average net daily production was 8,039 Bbls of oil and 5,440 Mcf of natural gas, or 8,950 Boe per day from the Rocky Mountain properties. The Company's leasehold interests include 158,000 net developed and 173,000 net undeveloped acres, which represent 36% and 40% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively. This leasehold is expected to be developed utilizing 3-D seismic, precision horizontal drilling and secondary recovery technologies, where applicable. As of December 31, 2000, the Company's Rocky Mountain properties included an inventory of 187 development and six exploratory drilling locations.
WILLISTON BASIN
CEDAR HILLS FIELD. The Cedar Hills Field was discovered in November 1994. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, the Cedar Hills Field properties produced 3,772 net Boe per day to the Company interests and represented 22% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2000. The Cedar Hills Field produces oil from the Red River "B" Formation, a thin (eight feet), non-fractured, blanket-type, dolomite reservoir found at depths of 8,000 to 9,500 feet. All wells drilled by the Company in the Red River "B" Formation were drilled exclusively with precision horizontal drilling technology. The Cedar Hills Field covers approximately 200 square miles and has a known oil column of 1,000 feet. Through December 31, 2000, the Company drilled or participated in 158 gross (108 net) horizontal wells, of which 151 were successfully completed, for a 96% net success rate.
The Company believes that the Red River "B" formation in the Cedar Hills Field is well suited for enhanced secondary recovery using either HPAI and /or traditional water flooding technology. Both technologies have proven successful for increasing oil recoveries from the Red River "B" Formation by 200% to 300% over primary recovery. The Company is proficient using both technologies and is planning to utilize both to maximize the recovery of oil from the reservoir. The Company believes that secondary recovery operations could increase total recovery from the Cedar Hills Field by as much as 60 million barrels. Drilling has successfully defined the limits of the field and secondary recovery operations are scheduled to begin during the second quarter of 2001. The secondary recovery operations will require a significant investment over the next three years to drill up to 70 infill wells to be used as injectors to facilitate secondary water flood operations.
The Company has obtained approval of two secondary recovery units in the Cedar Hills field. The Cedar Hills North - Red River "B" Unit ("CHNRRU") is located in Bowman and Slope Counties, North Dakota. The Company owns 95% of the working interest in the CHNRRU and is the operator of the unit. The CHNRRU contains 79 wells and 49,679 acres. The West Cedar Hills Unit ("WCHU") is located in Fallon County, Montana. The Company owns 100% of the working interest in the WCHU and is the unit operator. The WCHU contains 10 wells and 7,774 acres. The CHNRRU and the WCHU both became effective on March 1, 2001.
On January 22, 2001, the Company entered into a Mutual Release and Settlement Agreement ("Agreement") with Burlington Resources ("Burlington"). The Agreement provided for the Company to make an even exchange of interests with Burlington, whereby the Company obtained all of Burlington's working interest and operated wells within the Cedar Hills North - Red River "B" Unit and the West Cedar Hills Unit, in exchange for the Company transferring to Burlington its working interests and operated wells in the Burlington operated Cedar Hills South - Red River "B" Unit. The exchange of interest was effective February 1, 2001. The Agreement provided for the Company and Burlington to support one another in obtaining regulatory approval of the respective units. Also, as part of the Agreement, the Company and Burlington agreed to dismiss pending litigation in the District Court of Garfield County, Oklahoma and also resolved several outstanding accounting and land disputes between the Company and Burlington.
MEDICINE POLE HILLS, MEDICINE POLE HILLS WEST, BUFFALO, WEST BUFFALO AND SOUTH BUFFALO UNITS. In 1995, the Company acquired the following interests in five production units in the Williston Basin: Medicine Pole Hills (63%), Buffalo (86%), West Buffalo (82%), and South Buffalo (85%). During the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, these units produced 1,658 Boe per day, net to the Company's interests, and represented 3.4 MMBoe or 6% of the PV-10 attributable to the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2000. These units are HPAI enhanced recovery projects that produce from the Red River "B" Formation and are operated by the Company. All were discovered and developed with conventional vertical drilling. The oldest vertical well in these units has been producing for 45 years, demonstrating the long-lived production characteristic of the Red River "B" Formation. There are 89 producing wells in these units and current estimates of remaining reserve life range from four to 13 years. As planned, the Company has expanded the Medicine Pole Hills Unit through horizontal drilling into its newly formed Medicine Pole Hills West Unit ("MPHWU") which became effective April 1, 2000. The MPHWU produces from 25 wells and encompasses an additional 22 square miles of productive Red River B reservoir. This represents the first in a two-phase expansion of the Medicine Pole Hills Unit. Secondary injection at the MPHWU began November 22, 2000, and will expand throughout the field in 2001. The Company owns approximately 80% of the MPHWU. During 2001, the Company plans to drill up to eight horizontal wells as part of phase two to further expand and develop these units. There are currently 12 development drilling locations identified in these units. Approximately 11 square miles of new proprietary 3-D data will be acquired in key areas of both the Medicine Pole Hills and MPHWU to define additional infill drilling locations and to guide secondary recovery efforts.
LUSTRE AND MIDFORK FIELDS. In January 1992, the Company acquired the Lustre and Midfork Fields which, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, produced 266 Bbls per day, net to the Company's interests. Wells in both the Lustre and Midfork Fields produce from the Charles "C" dolomite, at depths of 5,500 to 6,000 feet. Historically, production from the Charles "C" has a low daily production rate and is long lived. There are currently 34 wells producing in the two fields, and no secondary recovery is underway in either field. The Company currently owns 59,000 net acres in the Lustre and Midfork Field area. The Company plans to acquire 25 - 50 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data in these areas during 2001 to further develop the Charles "C" reservoirs and deeper objectives underlying the Lustre and Midfork Fields as well as guide exploration for new fields on its substantial undeveloped leasehold. The Company currently has three locations identified to drill in the Lustre and Mid Fork areas during 2001, and expects additional drilling opportunities to be identified from the scheduled 3-D seismic.
BIG HORN BASIN
On May 14, 1998, the Company consummated the purchase for $86.5 million of producing and non-producing oil and gas properties and certain other related assets in the Worland Field, effective as of June 1, 1998. Subsequently, and effective as of June 1, 1998, the Company sold an undivided 50% interest in the Worland Field properties (excluding inventory and certain equipment) to the Company's principal stockholder, for $42.6 million. On December 31, 1999, the Company's principal stockholder contributed the undivided 50% interest in the Worland Properties along with debt of $18,600,000. The stockholder contributed $22,461,096 of the properties as additional paid-in-capital and the Company assumed his outstanding debt for the balance of the purchase price. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." The Worland Field properties cover 73,000 net leasehold acres in the Worland Field of the Big Horn Basin in northern Wyoming, of which 30,000 net acres are held by production and 43,000 net acres are non-producing or prospective. Approximately two-thirds of the Company's producing leases in the Worland Field are within five federal units, the largest of which the Cottonwood Creek Unit has been producing for more than 40 years. All of the units produce principally from the Phosphoria formation, which is the most prolific oil producing formation in the Worland Field. Four of the units are unitized as to all depths, with the Cottonwood Creek Field Extension (Phosphoria) Unit being unitized only as to the Phosphoria formation. The Company is the operator of all five of the federal units. The Company also operates 38 producing wells located on non-unitized acreage. The Company's Worland Field properties include interests in 256 producing wells, 244 of which are operated by the Company.
As of December 31, 2000, the estimated net proved reserves attributable to the Company's Worland Field properties were approximately 12.3 MMBoe, with an estimated PV-10 of $69.0 million. Approximately 86%, by volume, of these proved reserves consist of oil, principally in the Phosphoria formation. Oil produced from the Company's Worland Field properties is low gravity, sour (high sulphur content) crude, resulting in a lower sales price per barrel than non-sour crude, and is sold into a Marathon pipeline or is trucked from the lease. Gas produced from the Worland Field properties is also sour, resulting in a sale price that is less per Mcf than non-sour natural gas. From the effective date of the Worland Field Acquisition through September 30, 1998, the average price of crude oil produced by the Worland Field properties was $5.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price of crude oil. The Company entered into a contract effective October 1, 1998, through March 31, 1999, to sell crude oil produced from its Worland Field properties at an average price of $3.19 per Bbl less than the NYMEX price. Subsequent to these contracts, and effective February 1, 1999, the Company entered into a contract to sell the Worland Field production at a gravity adjusted price of $1.67 per barrel less than the monthly NYMEX average price. This contract will expire April 1, 2001, and is currently being renegotiated. The Company anticipates the spread from NYMEX will increase with the new contract.
In addition to the proved reserves, the Company has identified 157 potential development drilling locations on its Worland Field properties, to further develop and exploit the undeveloped portion of the Worland Field. More than 101 wells have been identified for acid fracture stimulation and other workovers and recompletions, most of which have been classified as having proved developed non-producing reserves. The Company believes that secondary and tertiary recovery projects will have significant potential for the addition of reserves. In addition, two exploratory drilling prospects have been identified on the Company's Worland Field properties in which prospects the Company has a majority leasehold position, allowing for further exploration for and exploitation of the Phosphoria, Tensleep, Frontier and Muddy formations and other prospective formations for additional reserves.
MID-CONTINENT
The Company's Mid-Continent properties are located primarily in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma, southwestern Kansas and the Texas Panhandle, and to a lesser extent, in the Arkoma Basin of southeastern Oklahoma ("Arkoma Basin"). At December 31, 2000, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent totaled 9 MMBoe and represented 42% of the Company's PV-10. At December 31, 2000, approximately 75% of the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Mid-Continent were natural gas. Net daily production from these properties during 2000 averaged 1,125 Bbls of oil and 12,465 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,202 Boe to the Company's interests. The Company's Mid- Continent leasehold position includes 55,607 net developed and 33,115 net undeveloped acres, representing 13% and 7% of the Company's total leasehold, respectively, at December 31, 2000. As of December 31, 2000, the Company's Mid- Continent properties included an inventory of 15 development and 21 exploratory drilling locations.
ANADARKO BASIN. The Anadarko Basin properties contained 100% of the Company's estimated proved reserves for the Mid-Continent and 42% of the Company's total PV-10 at December 31, 2000, and represented 75% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, net daily production from its Anadarko Basin properties averaged 1,125 Bbls of oil and 12,465 Mcf of natural gas, or 3,202 Boe to the Company's interest from 693 gross (301 nets) producing wells, 418 of which are operated by the Company. The Anadarko Basin wells produce from a variety of sands and carbonates in both stratigraphic and structural traps in the Arbuckle, Oil Creek, Viola, Mississippian, Springer, Morrow, Red Fork, Oswego, Skinner and Tonkawa formations, at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. These properties are continually being evaluated for further development drilling and workover potential.
ARKOMA BASIN. As part of the Company's strategic plan to divest of non-core assets for the purpose of allocating resources to higher reserve growth projects, all oil and gas properties in the Arkoma Basin, along with the Rattlesnake and Enterprise Gas Gathering System, were sold in January 2000 for $5.8 million.
GULF COAST
The Company's Gulf Coast activities are located primarily in the Pebble Beach Project in Nueces County, Texas and the Jefferson Island Project in Iberia Parish, Louisiana. In July 1999, the Company entered into a joint venture arrangement with Challanger Minerals to expand its drilling activities into the shallow shelf area of the Gulf of Mexico. At December 31, 2000, the Company's estimated proved reserves in the Gulf Coast totaled 1 MMBoe (87% gas) representing 7% of the Company's total PV-10 and 9% of the Company's estimated proved reserves of natural gas. Net daily production from these properties is 41 Bbls of oil and 3,845 Mcf of natural gas or 682 Boe to the Company's interest from 20 wells. The Company's leasehold position includes 4,986 net developed and 11,547 net undeveloped acres representing 1% and 3% of the Company's total leasehold respectively. From a combined total of 95 square miles of proprietary 3-D data, 12 development and 30 exploratory locations have been identified for drilling on these projects to date.
PEBBLE BEACH. The Pebble Beach project targets the prolific Frio and Vicksburg sands underlying and surrounding the Clara Driscoll field. These sandstones are found at depths ranging from 5000' to 9500' and produce on structures readily defined by seismic. During 2000, an additional 15 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic was acquired to expand the project, bringing the total seismic available across the project to 35 square miles. During 2000 the Company completed five development wells as producers and had one new field discovery. The Company has identified six development and seven exploratory drilling locations for drilling in 2001. The Company continues to expand its leasehold in the Pebble Beach project and plans to acquire another 10 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic to evaluate this acreage in 2001. The Company owns 18,050 gross and 11,450 net acres in the project. During 2000 the Company also acquired ownership of the nearby Luby field at no cost, for plugging liability and a small override. The Company believes the potential for production from deeper objectives also exists in and around the Luby field and plans to begin developing these opportunities in 2001.
JEFFERSON ISLAND. The Jefferson Island project is an underdeveloped salt dome that produces from a series of prolific Miocene sands. To date the field has produced 65.3 MMBoe from approximately one quarter of the total dome. The remaining three quarters of the faulted dome complex are essentially unexplored or underdeveloped. The Company has acquired 35 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic covering the property and has identified three potential development and five exploratory drilling locations. During 2000, a third party completed its 3-D seismic and drilling commitment to earn 50% of the project. To earn 50%, the third party had to pay 100% of costs for 3-D seismic and was obligated to drill five wells in which the Company owned 16% working interest at no cost. Out of the five wells drilled by the third party, two are commercial wells, two non commercial and one was a dry hole. To date, results have not met expectations and during 2001, the Company has plans to drill up to three exploratory wells in the project seeking higher reserve potential. The Company controls 4,513 gross and 3,475 net acres in the project.
GULF OF MEXICO. In July 1999 the Company elected to expand its drilling program into the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico ("GOM") though a joint venture arrangement with Challanger Minerals. This was part of the Company's ongoing strategy to build its opportunity base of high rate of return, natural gas opportunities in the Gulf Coast region. The expansion into the GOM has proven successful and as of December 31, 2000, the Company has participated in eight wells which resulted in five producers and three dry holes. The Company plans to continue its expansion in the GOM as a non- operator and plans to restrict investments to approximately $500,000 per project as it continues to gain experience in this new area. During 2000, the Company spent 14% of its drilling budget on opportunities in the GOM and expects to spend up to 20% of its drilling budget in the GOM during 2001. The Company currently has five wells in inventory for 2001.
NET PRODUCTION, UNIT PRICES AND COSTS
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production, prices and costs attributable to all oil and gas property interests owned by the Company for the periods shown:
PRODUCING WELLS
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells, exclusive of injection wells and water wells, in which the Company owned an interest as of December 31, 2000:
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the Company's developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2000:
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth the Company's drilling activity on its properties for the periods indicated:
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table summarizes the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves and the related PV-10 of such reserves at the dates shown. Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers ("Ryder Scott") prepared the reserve and present value data with respect to the Company's oil and gas properties which represented 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1998, 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 1999, and 83% of the PV-10 at December 31, 2000. The Company prepared the reserve and present value data on all other properties.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom are affected by oil and gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil andgas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. The Company's future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon its level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
GAS GATHERING SYSTEMS
The Company's gas gathering systems are owned by CGI. Natural gas and casinghead gas are purchased at the wellhead primarily under either market-sensitive percent-of-proceeds-index contracts or keep-whole gas purchase contracts or of fee- based contracts. Under percent-of-proceeds-index contracts, CGI receives a fixed percentage of the monthly index posted price for natural gas and a fixed percentage of the resale price for natural gas liquids. CGI generally receives between 20% and 30% of the posted index price for natural gas sales and from 20% to 30% of the proceeds received from natural gas liquids sales. Under keep-whole gas purchase contracts, CGI retains all natural gas liquids recovered by its processing facilities and keeps the producers whole by returning to the producers at the tailgate of its plants an amount of residue gas equal on a BTU basis to the natural gas received at the plant inlet. The keep-whole component of the contract permits the Company to benefit when the value of natural gas liquids is greater as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. Under the fee-based contracts, CGI receives a fixed rate per MMBTU of gas purchased. This rate per MMBTU remains fixed regardless of commodity prices.
OIL AND GAS MARKETING
The Company's oil and gas production is sold primarily under market sensitive or spot price contracts. The Company sells substantially all of its casinghead gas to purchasers under varying percentage-of-proceeds contracts. By the terms of these contracts, the Company receives a fixed percentage of the resale price received by the purchaser for sales of natural gas and natural gas liquids recovered after gathering and processing the Company's gas. The Company normally receives between 80% and 100% of the proceeds from natural gas sales and from 80% to 100% of the proceeds from natural gas liquids sales received by the Company's purchasers when the products are resold. The natural gas and natural gas liquids sold by these purchasers are sold primarily based on spot market prices. The revenues received by the Company from the sale of natural gas liquids are included in natural gas sales. As a result of the natural gas liquids contained in the Company's production, the Company has historically improved its price realization on its natural gas sales as compared to Henry Hub or other natural gas price indexes. For the year ended December 31, 2000, purchases of the Company's natural gas production by ENCINA Gas Pipeline accounted for 7% of the Company's total gas sales for such period and for the same period purchases of the Company's oil production by EOTT Energy Corp. accounted for 63% of the Company's total produced oil sales. Due to the availability of other markets, the Company does not believe that the loss of any crude oil or gas customer would have a material effect on the Company's results of operations.
Periodically the Company utilizes various hedging strategies to hedge the price of a portion of its future oil and gas production. The Company does not establish hedges in excess of its expected production. These strategies customarily emphasize forward-sale, fixed-price contracts for physical delivery of a specified quantity of production or swap arrangements that establish an index-related price above which the Company pays the hedging partner and below which the Company is paid by the hedging partner. These contracts allow the Company to predict with greater certainty the effective oil and gas prices to be received for its hedged production and benefit the Company when market prices are less than the fixed prices provided in its forward-sale contracts. However, the Company does not benefit from market prices that are higher than the fixed prices in such contracts for its hedged production. In August 1998, the Company began engaging in oil trading arrangements as part of its oil marketing activities. Under these arrangements, the Company contracts to purchase oil from one source and to sell oil to an unrelated purchaser, usually at disparate prices.
ITEM 3.