ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The table on the following page provides a summary of the most significant properties in which the Company has an interest. More detailed information regarding each of these properties is provided in the text that follows.
CANYON RESOURCES CORPORATION'S PROPERTIES
1 Net to Canyon's interest in the property. 2 Subject to joint-venture earn-in or purchase provisions. 3 Property acquired while in production. 4 To date - an additional amount of not less than $95 million nor more than $145 million will be paid to Phelps Dodge when all permits have been achieved or construction commences.
PRODUCTION PROPERTIES
BRIGGS PROJECT
General
The Briggs project, located on the west side of the Panamint Range near Death Valley, California, was acquired by the Company in 1990. It is 16 miles northeast of Trona and 35 miles northeast of Ridgecrest in Inyo County, California. Access from Trona is by 33 miles of paved and graded gravel roads. The Company owns or controls, through leasehold interests, 100% of the Briggs Mine, subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty.
Briggs' holdings include 784 unpatented mining claims, 70 mill site claims, 1 tunnel site claim, 53 unpatented placer mining claims, 1 patented millsite claim, and 2 patented mining claims that comprise an area of approximately 17,176 acres. The passage of the California Desert Protection Act in 1994 removed all of the Company's holdings from Wilderness Study Areas. Canyon's mining claims are now located on land prescribed for multiple use management by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. Patent applications were filed for certain claims on the Briggs deposit during 1993; however, no assurances can be made that these patents applications will be issued.
Operations
The Briggs Mine is an open-pit, heap leach operation, initially designed to produce an average of 75,000 ounces of gold per year over a seven-year life. The ore is crushed in three stages to a minus 1/4 inch size and is conveyor stacked on the leach pad. Gold is recovered from leach solutions in a carbon adsorption plant and refined into dore bars on site. The Company expects to increase the initial design production rate to 90,000 ounces per year in 1998 and onward.
Mine development and construction of facilities began on December 16, 1995. Facilities include a 12,000 ton per day crushing plant, leach pad, process ponds, recovery plant, office and lab buildings, and a maintenance shop. Crushing of ore commenced on July 29, 1996, and first gold production occurred on October 16, 1996. Limited production was realized through the remainder of 1996, yielding 3,417 ounces of gold.
In March, 1997, the Briggs Mine achieved commercial production levels, and, for the year, produced 66,769 ounces of gold and 19,215 ounces of silver. During 1997, 9.3 million tons were mined, of which 2.8 million tons were ore with an average grade of 0.033 ounce of gold per ton and a waste-to-ore strip ratio of 2.3 to 1.
Lower crushing throughput and higher than expected operating costs were experienced in 1997, principally relating to unsatisfactory performance of the tertiary stage vertical shaft impact crushers. In early 1998, these units were replaced with three cone crushers with the objective of reducing costs and increasing throughput. A scheduled expansion of the leach pad was completed during the year at a cost of $2.1 million. This expansion was financed by drawing on the final $4.0 million tranche of the Company's loan facility (See "Item 1 - Business - Financing.")
Statistical production and financial data for the Briggs Mine are shown on the following table.
BRIGGS MINE OPERATIONS
(1) Proceeds from 1996 gold sales and 8,150 ounces in 1997 credited against development costs. (2) As calculated under The Gold Institute's Production Cost Standard (3) Prior to interest income (expense) and other non-operating items (4) Excludes exploration and development drilling
Development
drilling in 1997 at North Briggs and Goldtooth, located immediately north and south, respectively, of the Briggs Mine, identified the following mineable reserves, which are included in the above Briggs Mine reserves:
The reserves at North Briggs were defined by 151 drillholes and occur subparallel to the topography, along a low-angle detachment fault, with increased thickness of mineralization eastward approaching the high-angle regionally persistent Goldtooth fault. The gold mineralized structure at North Briggs is still open to the northeast and east. The Goldtooth reserves, defined by 132 drillholes, occur primarily in steeply dipping orientation within favorable rock units adjacent to the Goldtooth fault.
Environmental Regulation
The Briggs Mine operates under the requirements of the following permits and agencies: 1) Plan of Operations, U.S. Bureau of Land Management: 2) Mining and Reclamation Plan, Inyo County; 3) Waste Discharge Requirements, Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board; 4) Permits to Construct and Permits to Operate, Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District; and 5) Section 404 Dredge and Fill Permit, Army Corps of Engineers. The permits issued to date are adequate for all mine operations involving currently identified mineable reserves in the Briggs deposit. Additional permits will be required to allow mining of the Briggs North and Goldtooth deposits. A local environmental group, allied with the Timbisha Shoshone Indian Tribe (collectively Appellants), has initiated various actions in opposition to the Briggs permits. The Company has prevailed in all actions at the administrative, trial court, and appellate level.
The BLM, Inyo County, the California Department of Conservation, and the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board (Lahontan) have jointly required the Company to maintain a $3,030,000 reclamation bond to ensure appropriate reclamation of the Briggs Mine. Additionally, Lahontan requires that the Company maintain a $1,010,000 bond to ensure adequate funds to mitigate any "foreseeable release" of pollutants to state waters. These bonds are subject to annual review and adjustment.
In 1994 the United States Congress passed the California Desert Protection Act (CDPA), resolving surface management classifications for large portions of BLM managed lands in the desert areas of California. The passage of the CDPA released lands around the Briggs Project for multiple use management, significantly reducing constraints on exploration and mine operations.
KENDALL MINE
General
The Kendall Mining District is located approximately 20 miles north of Lewistown, Montana, and is accessible by paved U.S. highway and graded dirt roads. The property rights controlled by the Company include (i) approximately 253.61 acres in patented claims and fee land; (ii) mining leases on approximately 1,932 acres in 71 patented mining claims and fee land.
The Kendall Mine was developed as an open-pit, heap-leach gold mine in September 1988, under the management of the Kendall Venture, a joint venture between the Company and Addwest Gold, Inc. (Addwest). On January 26, 1990, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Addwest and through its wholly owned subsidiary, CR Kendall Corporation, became the operator and sole owner of the operating interest in the Kendall Mine.
Operations
Through 1995, the Kendall Mine operation leached gold and silver from crushed ore on a year-round basis. Mining and crushing of all remaining ore was completed in January, 1995. Leaching of the remaining
gold in the heap leach pads continued through early 1997. All economic gold has now been recovered, and the mine is currently in a reclamation and closure mode.
During 1997, the two heap leach pads were rinsed of residual cyanide by continuous circulation of water and a treatment plant using reverse osmosis technology was installed to reduce dissolved metals so that water from the process system could be discharged. The Company expects to re-contour and cover the heap leach pads with an engineered cap of clay and topsoil and commence revegetation efforts of the heaps in 1998. The Company is currently evaluating long-term water treatment technologies for expected residual draindown of the heaps and waste-rock dump seepage.
Statistical production and financial data of the Kendall Mine for the last five years is shown on the following table.
KENDALL MINE OPERATIONS
1 Gold production net to Canyon after payment in kind of 5% royalty. 2 Includes royalty, severance taxes, overhead, and reclamation reserve. 3 Not meaningful, as active mining of new ore ceased in January, 1995. 4 Prior to provision for final site restoration of $1.1 million. 5 Not meaningful due to low production levels. 6 Through September 30, 1996. Subsequent sales and proceeds (138 ounces and $51K of proceeds) credited against reclamation costs. 7 Credited against reclamation costs
Environmental Regulation & Reclamation
The Kendall Mine operates under permits issued by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) and other regulatory agencies. A life of mine permit was granted by these agencies on November 1,
1989. In 1996 the Company completed a land exchange with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The BLM no longer holds regulatory authority over the Kendall Mine. The Company is negotiating details of final mine closure with the DEQ. DEQ has approved the portions of the closure plan related to recontouring, revegetation, drainage and heap dewatering. Discussions of long-term water handling and heap closure methods continue.
In early 1996, the Company installed a system to capture and collect drainage from certain mine facilities. The DEQ, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Company have inspected the system subsequent to its initial installation and have agreed on system improvements which have been completed. The Company will maintain, monitor, and, if necessary, improve the system until the DEQ determines that the system is no longer needed. In October 1997, the Company applied for a Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (MPDES) permit to cover seepage from waste rock piles. The DEQ is reviewing the permit application.
The Kendall Mine uses internal and external technical experts to monitor and insure environmental compliance. The Company believes the operation is currently in material compliance with all environmental and safety regulations.
The Montana Department of Environmental Quality requires that the Company maintain a $1,869,000 reclamation bond to ensure appropriate reclamation of the Kendall Mine. Reclamation has been ongoing throughout the life of the operation. Disturbed areas are contoured and topsoil is replaced and reseeded as soon as possible. During 1997, approximately 4.4 disturbed acres were reclaimed, and no additional acres were disturbed. The Company's reclamation expenditures in 1997 were approximately $1.8 million, primarily related to treatment and disposal of process water, capture and treatment of waste rock dump seepage, and improved drainage and sediment controls.
Final reclamation will require disposal of captured water, recontouring of spent ore heaps, roads and other areas and redistribution of topsoil and reseeding of some disturbed areas. Bond release on the property will only take place once the regulatory agencies have given final approval to all closure measures and are satisfied that the mine has met all reclamation requirements. There is no assurance of agency satisfaction with mine closure.
FERNLEY OPERATION
The industrial mineral activities of the Company are conducted through its wholly owned subsidiary, CR Minerals Corporation. The Company produces and markets diatomite under the trade name of DiaFil and sells the product both by a distributor network as well as directly to customers. Diatomite or diatomaceous earth consists of non-crystalline siliceous skeletal remains of single cell aquatic plants. The unique properties of diatomite allow it to be used in a wide variety of applications. The Company has developed a wide range of diatomite products. These products are differentiated based on particle size distribution, which yields different physical properties. The main characteristics of diatomite that are important to its use in industrial products are unique structure, large surface area, high absorption of liquids, mild abrasive qualities, low bulk density, low thermal conductivity, chemical inertness, high silica content, and low impurities. Diatomite is used to manufacture a broad variety of industrial materials, such as paints, plastics, asphalt coatings, insecticides, fertilizers, and polishes. In addition, the Company has undertaken research as to the uses of diatomite in poultry and livestock feed.
CR Minerals has established a distributor network in the United States, Canada, and throughout the world for assisting in the marketing of its diatomite. These distributors sell into the nonagricultural markets - paint, plastics, asphalt coatings, and other filler applications. Currently CR Minerals sells directly to
agricultural users and wholesalers. CR Minerals maintains its administrative offices in Golden, Colorado. Sales orders are placed at this office and transferred to the Fernley production site in Nevada after scheduling the shipping date. Accounting, inventory control, transportation, and billing are handled in Golden.
CR Minerals conducts mining and hauling with its own equipment and staff. The diatomaceous earth ore is mined from an open-pit and hauled by truck approximately 15 miles to the diatomite plant in Fernley, Nevada. Initially the diatomite is crushed to aggregate size, and then simultaneously milled and dried in a high volume stream of hot air. The dried diatomite is collected in cyclones for subsequent size classification by mechanical means or air classification. The coarser and denser accessory minerals are removed, and the diatomite particles can then be segregated by size fraction. Generally, the finer the size fraction, the higher the value. The processing facility has a capacity of 40,000 tons per year of processed diatomite and can load finished product in bulk rail cars, bulk bags, or standard 50 and 55 pound bags which can be shipped by rail, truck, and as ocean cargo. The processing facility has been in operation since the 1950's. Since acquisition in 1987, the Company has made capital improvements including additional air classification equipment, storage bins, bulk bag loading facilities, new laboratory and warehouse facilities. Ample diatomite reserves exist for more than two decades of production at near capacity rates.
The plant produces a natural diatomite product that is composed mainly of noncrystalline silica. DiaFil products typically contain crystalline silica that ranges from less than 0.1% to under 1%. Competitive calcined diatomite products contain up to 70% crystalline silica. Long-term exposure to crystalline silica is believed to cause pneumoconiosis or fibrotic lung disease. Recent work by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) of the World Health Organization has highlighted the link between cancer and crystalline silica. The Company believes that the low amount of crystalline silica in its DiaFil products is aiding in its marketing activities.
The Company's diatomite operations are subject to local, state and federal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations primarily apply to air quality and plant emissions resulting from mining, crushing, drying, size classification, and packaging operations. Pursuant to recently enacted Nevada statutes, the Company has submitted mining reclamation plans for three diatomite deposits. The Company currently mines diatomite from one of these deposits and a prior operator mined from the other two deposits. All of the deposits have been mined by previous operators under regulatory policies much different than those in existence today. Regulatory agencies have issued mining permits for two of the deposits and are currently reviewing the application on the third deposit. The company has posted a reclamation assurance that covers the three deposits in the total amount of $160,000.
Mining from one deposit is currently being conducted on private land owned by the Company and the other two deposits are located on unpatented mining claims. Patent applications were filed in 1993 for claims that contain additional diatomite deposits. Patents have not yet been issued. The land on which the processing facility is located is leased from the Southern Pacific Railroad, but the facilities are owned by the Company. This lease expires in September 2007 and requires monthly payments of $1,102.
SANTA FE OPERATION
In mid 1996, CR Minerals Corporation acquired a pumice and volcanic glass processing plant from American Pumice Company. This production facility is located in Santa Fe, New Mexico. From mid-1996 to the end of 1997, ore was purchased from two separate sources and hauled by truck to the plant site where it was stockpiled for processing. In December, 1997, CR Minerals purchased the mine that fed the majority of the raw ore to the Santa Fe plant from Western Mobile Santa Fe, Inc. The mine is located 50 miles north of the processing plant near Espanola, New Mexico. The ore is dried, milled and classified into various
products by size fraction. Finished product can be shipped from the plant by bulk rail cars, bulk bags or 50 pound bags. In 1997, the plant was upgraded with the addition of a new drying system, a new primary grinding system, new air classification system as well as other new equipment to enhance productivity and ensure quality control.
Pumice is formed when gases are released from molten volcanic rock to generate a froth that cools and solidifies as rock. Rapid cooling forms a rock that is non-crystalline in nature (volcanic glass) and frequently contains bubbles or vesicles which range in size from a few thousandth of a millimeter to over a centimeter. Pumice is dominantly non-crystalline silica with a low density that has numerous industrial applications.
The Company produces two main product lines at the Santa Fe facilities. Coarser-grained pumice products are sold into the abrasives and filler markets. Pumice sold in these markets is marketed under the trade name of Navajo Brand. Finer-grained volcanic glass products are sold under the trade name of SafSil. Because of the very low crystalline silica content (nondetectable) of the SafSil products, the Company anticipates a marketing advantage for its products as a substitute for ground crystalline silica. The health hazards of crystalline silica are well established and as discussed above in the section on the Fernley Operation, its link with cancer is a major health concern for long term exposure.
Both Navajo Brand and SafSil are marketed through a distributor network as well as directly to customers. Sales of the products are both domestic and foreign with the administrative offices located in Golden, Colorado. The company's processing facility is subject to local, state, and federal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations primarily apply to air quality, plant emissions and zoning restrictions. The Santa Fe plant has been in operation since the early 1950's.
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
SEVEN-UP PETE VENTURE
General
Prior to September 25, 1997, through its wholly owned subsidiary, CR Montana Corporation (CR Montana), the Company owned a 27.75% interest in the Seven-Up Pete Venture (SPV) which includes the Seven-Up Pete gold deposit, the McDonald gold deposit, and the Keep Cool exploration property. Phelps Dodge Mining Company was the operator of the SPV.
On September 25, 1997, Canyon and CR Montana purchased the 72.25% participating interest in the Seven-Up Pete Joint Venture, including the McDonald Gold Project, from Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge). The purchase increased Canyon's effective ownership in the project to 100%. Canyon made an initial payment of $5 million to Phelps Dodge, as part of a purchase price which shall be no less than $100 million and no more than $150 million. No additional payments are required until after all permits have been achieved or construction commences. The largest part of the purchase price, $20 to $30 per mineable reserve ounce attributable to the former Phelps Dodge ownership, is to be paid after all permits have been obtained and construction of the mine is underway. The purchase payments are collateralized only by the 72.25% participating interest and underlying assets being transferred from Phelps Dodge to Canyon.
The Seven-Up Pete and McDonald properties are located six to eight miles east of Lincoln and 45 miles northwest of Helena, in Lewis and Clark County, Montana. Access to the properties is by dirt roads from a paved highway that crosses the property. The SPV consists of approximately 35 square miles of patented and unpatented mining claims and mineral leases of fee and state land, in general subject to a 5% net smelter returns royalty. During 1994, the state lease upon which substantially all of the currently identified McDonald orebody is located was amended. The amendment extended the primary term for a period of 16 months beyond the time required for review and approval of permit applications for development of the property, including the time required to resolve any appeals of permit approvals. In addition, the lease may also be held thereafter by the production of minerals in paying quantities or the payment of a delay rental of $150,000 per month. The amendment also, along with similar amendments to five other adjacent state leases, provides for cross-mining on all six leases and the consolidation of the six leases under a single management unit.
During 1997, the Company funded a total of $3.1 million for SPV expenditures, 27.75% of the expenditures prior to the purchase from Phelps Dodge and 100% of the expenditures since that date.
Geology and Exploration
McDonald Property
During 1989 and 1990, exploration conducted on the McDonald property included geophysical and geochemical surveys, preliminary metallurgical testing, and drilling of 76 holes for a total of 41,331 feet. This early exploration drilling discovered a sizeable gold deposit. The McDonald property is partially covered by a siliceous sinter deposited by an ancient hot spring system. The sinter overlies shallow dipping volcanic units which have been strongly fractured and mineralized. The gold mineralization occurs primarily in a favorable rhyolitic volcanic unit. Drilling on the McDonald property continued from 1991 through 1994. Analysis of the drill data through the end of 1992 indicated that the McDonald deposit contains 8.2 million ounces of gold within 414.4 million tons of mineralized rock with an average grade of 0.020 ounce of gold per ton (opt), using a cutoff grade of 0.008 opt.
In 1993 Davy International completed a Feasibility Study that indicated that 205.1 million tons of the McDonald deposit, with an average grade of 0.025 opt and containing 5.2 million ounces of gold, could be mined economically (at a gold price of $375/oz.) in an open-pit, heap-leaching operation. The study indicated that mining and crushing of 121 million tons of ore above a 0.016 opt cutoff grade (with an average grade of 0.034 opt) and mining and direct loading onto the leach pad of an additional 84 million tons of lower grade ore (averaging 0.012 opt) could, with an expected average 72% recovery of the contained gold, produce approximately 300,000 ounces of gold per year over a 12-year mine life. The expected waste-to-ore ratio would be 2.1:1. Initial capital costs for the project, including pre-production stripping, were expected to be approximately $188 million. Operating costs, including royalty, severance and property taxes, and reclamation reserve, were expected to be approximately $231 per ounce of gold produced.
Through the end of 1996, the McDonald gold deposit had been defined through the drilling of 609 drillholes, containing 469,000 feet, over an area of approximately 8,000 feet in east-west dimension and 5,000 feet in north-south dimension. Seventy-nine of these drillholes, including 56,300 feet, were coreholes. This data base includes 168 holes drilled since the 1993 Feasibility Study. Every five foot sample interval has been assayed by outside commercial labs for its gold content, with routine check assays. The rock obtained in the coreholes was used extensively for metallurgical testing of leaching characteristics of the deposit.
In late 1997, Canyon undertook a complete remodeling of the McDonald gold deposit, with all of the drill data. In the remodeling work, samples from every five-foot interval of all of the drillholes were
re-examined. The remodeling was conducted under the direction of MRDI, Canada, an international consulting engineering firm. The remodeling indicates that the McDonald gold deposit contains 9.3 million ounces of gold, averaging 0.019 opt, using a cutoff grade of 0.008 opt; including 6.0 million ounces, averaging 0.029 opt, using a cutoff grade of 0.016 opt; including 4.9 million ounces, averaging 0.034 opt, using a cutoff grade of 0.020 opt.
MCDONALD GOLD DEPOSIT MINERAL INVENTORY
Canyon's ongoing engineering analysis projects that gold can be produced profitably from the McDonald deposit at gold prices in the $300 to $350 per ounce range. Under the current $350 gold-price mine plan, mineable reserves containing 6.9 million ounces of gold would be mined, with the production of 4.7 million ounces of gold and 10 million ounces of silver over a 12-year period. Under this mine design, mining and crushing of 107 million tons of ore above a 0.020 opt cutoff grade (with an average grade of 0.037 opt) and mining and direct loading onto a leach pad of an additional 260 million tons of lower grade ore (averaging 0.012 opt) would, with an expected average recovery of 81% of the contained gold from the crushed rock and 52% from the run-of-mine rock, would produce approximately 400,000 ounces of gold per year over the mine life. Cash operating costs for the $350 gold-price mine plan are estimated at $176 per ounce. Initial capital costs are estimated at approximately $227 million. More detailed engineering work in 1998 will cause these numbers to be further defined.
Environmental baseline studies have been conducted since 1989, providing the necessary information to design and site facilities for the proposed McDonald gold mine. Baseline studies include air quality, meteorology, surface water, groundwater, wildlife, fisheries, aquatics, vegetation, soils, recreation, transportation, visual resources, wetlands, cultural resources, and socioeconomics.
In 1994 the SPV completed environmental baseline and engineering studies that demonstrate that the proposed McDonald gold mine can be operated in an environmentally sound manner. This information was used to prepare and file an application for Plan of Operations with the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) in November, 1994. The DEQ declared the application complete in 1996 and is preparing an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) with the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) and the US Army Corps of Engineers (COE) as co-lead agencies.
The agencies hired experienced consulting firms to prepare the EIS. The consultants will complete the EIS under supervision of the lead agencies with the SPV bearing all costs through an arrangement with the lead agencies. The lead agencies have completed "scoping" and are actively preparing the EIS. The SPV expects that permits for the project could be issued in the second quarter of 1999.
Most of the McDonald gold deposit occurs on land owned by the State of Montana and is subject to a 5% net smelter returns royalty payable principally to Montana Tech, part of the state university system. A minor portion of the McDonald gold deposit occurs on land owned by the Sieben Ranch Company (SRC) and is subject to a 5% net smelter returns royalty. In 1997, the SPV entered into a purchase option agreement with the SRC whereby, after all permits to construct the mine are achieved, SPV will purchase all of the SRC lands that are included in the McDonald mine plan. The royalty would still be payable to the SRC upon production.
A sizeable permitting and engineering budget is projected for the McDonald Gold Project for 1998 and 1999. Such work will include completion of the many permits necessary for project construction, modest infill drilling to further refine the mine-plan sequencing, detailed engineering, and a bankable feasibility study.
Seven-Up Pete Property
Between 1989 and 1993, exploration, bulk sampling, development studies, metallurgical testing, and environmental baseline studies were conducted on the Seven-Up Pete property. By 1993, the total drilling on the property was 378 holes for 159,410 feet of drilling. A draft preliminary Feasibility Study was completed in January, 1993, updating an earlier 1991 study. The 1993 Preliminary Feasibility Study indicates that the Seven-Up Pete gold deposit contains 10.3 million tons of mineralized rock with an average grade of 0.058 ounce of gold per ton.
The Seven-Up Pete property is covered by middle Tertiary andesitic volcanic rocks. The most important controls on mineralization at Seven-Up Pete are north to northwest-trending faults that have localized quartz-pyrite-precious metal mineralization. The structures generally dip to the west and can be up to 150 feet wide. Gold and silver occur in high grade quartz veins that are localized near the margins of the shear zone, as well as in lower grade shattered zones between the high grade veins. Gold mineralization occurs as free gold as well as submicroscopic particles associated with pyrite.
Environmental Regulation
The McDonald deposit occurs on private and state lands. There are no federal lands involved in the Plan of Operations for the McDonald project. The Seven-Up Pete deposit occurs on patented mining claims within a U.S. National Forest. As with all mining projects, careful environmental study and permitting will be required before a mine can be developed on either property. There are no assurances that all needed permits will be issued nor that, in the event they are issued, such issuance will be timely, nor that conditions contained in permits issued by the agencies will not be so onerous as to preclude construction and operation of the project.
Mining activity in the United States is subject to the granting of numerous permits under applicable Federal and State statutes, including, but not limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and the Montana Environmental Policy Act. It is not legal to engage in mining activity without securing the permits required by these and other statutes. Initiation of gold production at the McDonald project will thus require the granting of numerous permits, some of which are discretionary.
Major permits include the Operating Permit from the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), the Operating Plan from the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC), the Air Quality Permit (DEQ), the Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (DEQ), a Non-Degradation Authorization (DEQ), a Stormwater Discharge Permit (DEQ), a Water Rights Permit (DNRC),
a Section 404 Dredge and Fill Permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE), and a Fiscal Impact Plan which must be approved by the Montana Hard Rock Impact Board and numerous local government units.
An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is currently being prepared by three co-lead agencies, DEQ, DNRC, and COE. This EIS will be used to support all of the major permit decisions. Agency decisions on the permits could be forthcoming by the second quarter of 1999. No assurance can be given that such permits will be issued, or if issued, in what time frame such issuance would occur. In the 1996 elections, the Montana voters rejected an anti-mining initiative, thus removing a potential obstacle to development of the McDonald project.
PRINCIPAL EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
The status of exploration activities on the Company's major exploration properties is described below. The properties described are believed to be the most significant of the Company's current inventory. However, that inventory is constantly changing and it is to be expected that some of the properties discussed will eventually be joint-ventured, marketed or abandoned, and that other properties owned or acquired by the Company will become the object of more intensive exploration activities.
BRIGGS/PANAMINT PROPERTIES
Significant gold mineralization occurs within the Briggs claim block which extends for 12 miles along the western flank of the Panamint Mountain Range. Areas identified within this block (from south to north) with indicated potential to host gold mineralization include Gold Tooth, Briggs, North Briggs, Jackson, Cecil R, Pleasant Canyon, and Jackpot. (See "Item 2 - Properties - Briggs Project - Development" for a discussion of Goldtooth and North Briggs). In 1991 considerable drilling was conducted on the Gold Tooth, Jackson and Cecil R areas. Access to many parts of the claim block for drilling was severely hampered by the presence of Wilderness Study Areas. In 1994 the WSA designation was removed from the entire claim block.
Several areas identified as drill targets in the Pleasant Canyon and Jackpot areas were drilled in 1997. This drilling resulted in the interception of ore-grade gold mineralization in six widely spaced drill holes in the Pleasant Canyon area. The gold mineralization appears to occur as two horizons that can be traced from the surface to a depth of at least 535 feet below the surface. A reconnaissance drilling program was also conducted at the Jackson prospect, whereas only two new holes were drilled at the Cecil R prospect. The drilling at Jackson intercepted potentially ore- grade gold mineralization that appears to trend northward from the area of drilling. The two drill holes at Cecil R did not add to the previously defined 2.2 million tons of mineralized rock containing 84,000 ounces of gold with an average grade of 0.038 ounce of gold per ton.
An aerial geophysical program was conducted across the entire claim block in 1996 and was followed up with ground reconnaissance in 1997. The geophysical data will be used to assist further exploration for concealed gold deposits on the property.
MOUNTAIN VIEW PROPERTY
The Mountain View project is located in the Deep Hole Mining District, approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, in northwestern Nevada. In mid 1992, the Company entered into a joint venture with Independence Mining Company and also acquired additional claims in the area consolidating a major land position. The Company conducted an integrated exploration program, including geological, geochemical,
geophysical, and drilling programs to evaluate the gold potential near the old Mountain View Mine and elsewhere across the property block. This program resulted in the discovery of a significant new gold mineralization zone on the south end of the property in late 1992.
During 1993 and 1994, the Company continued the exploration program on the property, including drilling more than 75,000 feet in 117 reverse circulation and combined reverse circulation/core drill holes. Of the total drilling, 60,375 feet in 87 holes were concentrated in the discovery area on the south end of the property. The discovery area drilling has resulted in the identification and partial delineation of a deposit which contains an estimated 19.6 million tons of mineralized rock with an average grade of 0.027 ounce of gold per ton. The mineralized rock occurs beneath 100 to 600 feet of pediment gravel on the west side of the Granite Mountains range front fault.
At the beginning of 1994, the Company owned a 60% interest and Independence Mining Company (IMC) owned a 40% interest in the Mountain View Joint Venture. The Company obtained and subsequently exercised an option to purchase IMC's remaining interest in the joint venture in exchange for 61,539 shares of common stock of the Company, thereby owning 100% interest in the Mountain View project, effective January, 1995.
In July, 1995, the Company entered into an exploration agreement with Homestake Mining Company (HMC). During 1995, HMC expended $738,412 on the property, primarily in the drilling of 22 reverse circulation and 4 core holes. HMC also staked 130 new lode mining claims during 1995. Including the new claims, the Mountain View property consists of approximately 8,600 acres of mineral rights in leased and located unpatented lode claims, placer mining claims and 440 acres of leased fee land. The leased properties have minor advance royalty payments and a maximum of 4% net smelter return royalty.
In 1996, HMC expended $555,000 on the Mountain View project. Work consisted of mapping, rock sampling, geophysical surveys, trenching and drilling. A total of 43 holes and 26,545 feet of reverse circulation drilling was completed in various new target areas in the central and western portions of the property. No new gold mineralized zones were encountered by 1996 drilling and HMC terminated the exploration agreement in November, 1996.
In June, 1997, the Company entered into a Purchase and Sales Agreement with Mountain View Gold Inc. (MVG). The agreement gives MVG the right to purchase the property by paying the Company $3.0 million over three years and expending $1.25 million in exploration work on the property. In 1997, MVG paid $0.3 million to the Company and expended approximately $0.1 million on the property. MVG, at any time, upon proper notice, may terminate the agreement and its then remaining obligations, and relinquish its interest in the property.
MONTANA PROPERTIES
The Company owns approximately 900,000 acres of fee simple and fee mineral rights in western Montana. The fee mineral rights underlie surface rights owned by other parties. In March, 1995, the Company entered into an Exploration Agreement with Option to Acquire Title Agreement with BHP Minerals International Exploration Inc. (BHP) to explore the Company's 900,000 acre holding in western Montana. The Agreement allows BHP the option to acquire an undivided 50% ownership in the property as to gold and an undivided 51% ownership for all other minerals (except industrial minerals) by expending at least $2.5 million on the property over a six-year period and making payments of $25,000 per year to the Company. BHP also has the option to acquire an additional 1% ownership in gold properties by paying one million dollars to the Company.
During 1995, BHP Minerals expended $200,869 on surface exploration and drilling on the Company's property. Eight drill holes totaling 2,960 feet were drilled on one prospect in the Garnet Range, generally with negative results. A large (1,200 square mile) stream sediment sampling program identified over 20 potential base and/or precious metal targets.
During 1996, BHP expended $381,662 on exploration of the property, focusing primarily on regional reconnaissance. Three precious metals project areas were identified in the central portion of the property and are scheduled for detailed evaluation during 1997. Twenty unpatented lode mining claims were staked by BHP and were added to the exploration agreement. As a follow-up evaluation to base and precious metals target areas generated in 1995, extensive stream sediment sampling and reconnaissance was conducted in the northwest portion of the property. No specific project areas have been identified to date. However, surface work will continue in 1997. During 1996, one 1,500 foot exploration drill hole was completed on a stratabound copper-silver occurrence. Results were discouraging and the target has been abandoned.
During 1997, BHP expended $340,872, focusing primarily on reconnaissance in the central block of the property. Four areas containing gold-stream sediment anomalies were identified through the collection and analysis of 1,200 samples. In addition, 9 drill holes totaling 3,140 feet were completed at various areas on the property. Results suggest further drilling and geologic mapping is warranted in 1998.
In October 1995, the Company entered into a Mining Venture Agreement with Kennecott Exploration Company (Kennecott) to explore approximately 2,100 acres in the Lincoln Valley, adjacent to the Seven-Up Pete Joint Venture. During 1995 and 1996, Kennecott expended $162,000 by conducting geologic mapping, rock and soil geochemical sampling and geophysical surveys on the Lincoln Valley properties. Several structural zones were identified along portions of which anomalous gold and indicator minerals were identified. Due to a major reorganization of its U.S. exploration efforts, Kennecott discontinued exploration of the property and terminated the agreement in August, 1996.
LATIN AMERICAN EXPLORATION
ARGENTINA
The Company decided in 1995 that other areas in Latin America and Africa offered better potential to find and develop gold resources than Argentina. The Company decided to market its Argentine properties to other mining companies in joint ventures or options. The Company closed its Argentina office in October, 1995, and has maintained Argentinean activities through the use of consultants since that time.
In February, 1996, CR International Corporation (CRIC), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an exploration agreement with Phelps Dodge Exploration de Argentina, S.A. (PDA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Corporation, on five CRIC properties in Chubut and Santa Cruz Provinces. By funding $3.9 million in exploration expenditures over a six-year period, PDA could earn a 50% interest in the properties.
In April, 1996, PDA terminated their interest in the four CRIC properties in Santa Cruz Province but continued to explore on the 724 square kilometer Arroyo Cascada property in Chubut Province. The Arroyo Cascada property contains strongly anomalous gold values in rocks, soils, and stream-sediments within an altered volcanic pile, suggestive of a buried porphyry system with potential for both gold and copper. PDA conducted soil geochemical sampling, geologic mapping, induced polarization geophysical surveying and drilled five holes totaling 1024 meters at Arroyo Cascada during 1996. In 1996 PDA expended $383,638 on
the Arroyo Cascada property. In February, 1997, PDA notified CRIC that it was terminating the exploration agreement.
In July, 1997, CRIC entered into an Exploration with Option to Joint Venture letter agreement covering the Arroyo Cascada property with Puma Minerals Corp. (Puma). By expending $2.0 million over four years on the property, Puma has the right to enter into a joint venture with CRIC as operator with a 50% participating interest. In 1997, Puma expended approximately $17,000 on the property, principally relating to geologic mapping and sampling.
In July, 1997, CRIC entered into a Purchase and Sales Agreement with Minera El Desquite S.A. (Minera) for its Aeuropuerto Property. The Aeuropuerto property is an epithermal gold exploration prospect in highly altered volcanic rocks. Minera has agreed to pay CRIC $2.0 million over five years and a 2.5% net smelter return on any production from the property. Minera, at any time, upon proper notice, may terminate the agreement and its then remaining obligations, and relinquish its interest in the property.
The Santa Cruz properties contain gold-bearing quartz veins and stockworks in volcanic rocks, similar to the nearby multimillion ounce Cerro Vanguardia gold deposit. In April, 1997, CRIC entered into an Exploration with Option to Joint Venture Agreement with D&F Incorporated (D&F). The agreement, as amended in October, 1997, allows D&F to earn an undivided 70% interest in the properties by expending $500,000 over a two year period. In 1997, D&F expended approximately $30,000 on the property, principally related to legal labor as required by the Ministry of Mines.
BRAZIL
During 1996, the Company's eight mineral concessions (alvaras) were granted, comprising approximately 60,000 hectares in the Rio Maria area of Para State in Brazil. The Company's wholly owned Brazilian subsidiary, Canyon Mineraceo do Brasil Ltda., had acquired the rights to these properties from a Brazilian gold mining company, Mineraceo Vale das Andorinhas Ltda., in 1995. Under the terms of the acquisition, the Company is obligated to make annual payments which escalate to a maximum of $25,000 per alvara and to pay a royalty of 4.25% gross production, from which will be deducted State taxes and certain other payments which may become due. Gold has been produced by informal miners from alluvial and bedrock gold deposits within and adjacent to the Company's properties. The geology of the Company's properties comprises a folded and sheared greenstone volcano-sedimentary sequence, defining a geologic setting similar to that of some multi-million ounce gold deposits in the region.
Work on this project during 1996 was aimed at follow-up of reconnaissance gold stream sediment anomalies identified during the 1995 field season. The 1996 program of detailed stream sediment sampling and grid geologic mapping and soil sampling defined five target areas comprising favorable geology and geochemical anomalies in rock and/or soil. Each target area measures several kilometers in strike length by one-half to more than one kilometer in width. A preliminary trenching program was initiated at the end of the field season to test the soil gold anomalies. Work during 1997 consisted of additional trenching and infill sampling of anomalies. The trenching revealed gold mineralized in bedrock over several kilometers of strike. The Company expended $0.9 million on the Rio Maria project in 1997. Immediately adjacent to the Company's Rio Maria Project is a new discovery, Andorinhas, by Golden Star Resources Ltd. The Company believes drilling is warranted in several areas at Rio Maria and is actively seeking a joint venture partner to fund continuing work.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Effective April 13, 1995, an Option Agreement was signed with Eldorado Corporation Ltd. (Eldorado) giving Eldorado the right to purchase all the issued and outstanding shares of Minera Hispaniola, S.A. (MH). The Option Agreement requires Eldorado to: (i) pay $50,000 upon signing; (ii) $3.0 million work commitment over three years; (iii) pay $500,000 to exercise the option within 3 years; (iv) pay $500,000 upon commencement of commercial production; and (v) pay various net smelter return royalty on production. MH is a company incorporated in the Dominican Republic and owned 40% by Canyon Resources Corporation and 60% by Battle Mountain (Dominican Republic) Inc. By a Consent Agreement dated June 8, 1995, Eldorado assigned all of its right, title and interest in the Option Agreement to Energold Mining Ltd. (Energold).
Energold has, since acquiring the Option Agreement, been conducting exploration activities on several of the MH exploration concessions and on other areas in the Dominican Republic. Energold completed three core holes on the El Higo Exploration Concession in 1995 and, through January 1996, had completed five additional core drill holes on the adjacent Los Pedregones Concession. Drilling was halted at El Higo in September, 1995 due to environmental concerns expressed to the government Forestry Service by outside parties opposed to the project. Energold, at the request of the government, has conducted an environmental baseline assessment of the exploration work, which indicates that the environment will not be endangered by the work program. In the fall of 1996, permission to continue drilling at El Higo was granted and the program recommenced. Thirty-three diamond drill holes of a planned 50 hole program were completed by the end of 1996. In May, 1997, Energold applied for a new concession at El Higo, on a reduced area basis, which is currently pending before the Department of Mines. Eight additional drill holes were completed on the Los Pedregones Concession in 1997 with anomalous gold values indicated.
In October, 1996, Energold entered into a farm-out agreement with Impact Minerals Inc. whereby Impact can earn a 60% interest in the Majagual Concession by delivering 100,000 treasury shares to Energold and spending C$1,250,000 on the property over a 4 year period. The agreement protects the interest of MH and will revert to MH should Energold fail to perform under the Option Agreement. During 1997, surface mapping, and geologic trenching on the concession indicates the possible presence of a porphyry copper system with anomalous gold values. Further work, including some drilling, is planned for 1998.
In August, 1997, Energold was granted a six-month extension for purposes of completing the $3.0 million work commitment and exercise of the option to acquire all the issued and outstanding shares of MH. To date, Energold has spent in excess of $2.3 million on its Dominican activities.
PANAMA
The Company's wholly owned subsidiary Canyon de Panama, S.A. was formally granted the 10,594 hectare San Pedrito Concession in August, 1995. The concession is located in central Panama about 150 kilometers west of Panama City. The San Pedrito property covers most of the area between the Santa Rosa open-pit, heap-leach gold mine (over one million ounces of gold) and a smaller underground mine at Remance. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling by the Company on the property have identified gold-bearing alteration zones in andesitic volcanic rocks. The geologic environment is similar to that at Santa Rosa.
Work during 1996 consisted of detailed geologic mapping and geochemical sampling over a several square kilometer anomaly defined during the 1995 program. This additional work has defined a coherent gold in soil and rock anomaly associated with a hydrothermally altered zone.
No substantive work was undertaken in 1997 at the San Pedrito concession. The Company is actively seeking a joint-venture partner to continue the work at San Pedrito.
AFRICA EXPLORATION
GENERAL
In February, 1994, the Company entered into an agreement with Africa Mineral Resource Specialists Inc. (AMRS), a Colorado corporation, whereby the Company would finance the exploration and acquisition of precious metal properties in Africa and the AMRS staff would conduct certain exploration/acquisition activities under the direction of the Company. To conduct the business activities in Africa, a subsidiary company, Canyon Resources Africa Ltd. (CRAL) was formed - of which the Company owns 90% and AMRS owns 10%.
CRAL is concentrating exploration efforts in Ethiopia, while also evaluating property specific opportunities elsewhere in Africa. CRAL has acquired one property in Zimbabwe.
ETHIOPIA
On September 6, 1995, CRAL and the Ministry of Mines signed a three-year Exploration License, renewable for two additional one-year terms on the 60 square kilometer Megado-Serdo area. The Megado Serdo Exploration License requires that CRAL spend at least $500,000 and complete an approved work program during the first year. The second year expenditure requirement on an approved work program is $750,000.
The Megado-Serdo area is within a greenstone belt of metamorphic rocks of Proterozoic age. The property is located 10-15 kilometers southwest of the large Lega Dembi gold mine owned and operated by the Adola Gold Mine Enterprise. Government workers have conducted considerable exploration work and have identified several areas of gold mineralization associated with quartz veins within favorable schist horizons on the Megado-Serdo property and have conducted trenching and limited drilling. Most of the streams draining the Megado-Serdo area have had considerable placer mining activity. CRAL commenced a detailed review and compilation of prior government work at Megado Serdo in September, 1995, and conducted preliminary site studies in December, 1995.
Field work at Megado-Serdo during 1996 included building of access road, line cutting, geochemical soil grid sampling of the entire license, geological mapping and trenching. By year-end, 3,678 soil samples and 1,429 trench samples had been collected. In-fill sampling in gold anomalous areas also commenced. In 1997 total exploration expenditures exceeded the second license year requirement of $750,000. The work included approximately 2,375m of trenching, 58 line km of induced polarization geophysical survey, 65 line km of radiometric geophysical survey, and 1,005m of diamond core drilling.
In August 1994, CRAL also applied for an Exploration License on the 108 square kilometer Meleka-Abeba area located about 50 kilometers north of the Lega Dembi mine in the northern end of the Adola Gold Belt. Stream sediment geochemistry conducted by the government has identified numerous concentrations of anomalous gold which have not been followed-up to date. Some artisanal placer mining has recently been conducted within the application area. On March 26, 1996, the Meleka-Abeba Exploration License was issued.
Field work at Meleka-Abeba has included building of access roads, line cutting, rock, soil, and stream sediment geochemical sampling, and geologic mapping. The stream sediment sampling has greatly expanded the area of anomalous gold in streams identified earlier by government workers. The first year of the license required a minimum expenditure of $250,000 which was met and a commitment was made to continue work
into the second year of exploration which requires a $400,000 minimum expenditure. Field work at Meleka Abeba during the first year included building of access roads, lie cutting, rock, soil, and stream sediment geochemical sampling, and geologic mapping. In year two of the license, this work led to a trenching program which discovered areas of strongly anomalous gold mineralization in bedrock. In late November 1997, diamond core drilling commenced to test several areas for near surface bulk mineable gold mineralization. Assay results of this drilling is pending.
On February 6, 1996, CRAL entered into a joint venture agreement with JCI Limited (JCI), a large South African mining company, to finance gold exploration on CRAL's Exploration Licenses and license applications in Ethiopia. By funding $3.0 million in exploration expenditures on two licenses, JCI would earn a 51% joint venture interest.
CRAL will be the manager of the joint venture through the exploration financing and JCI earn-in of its 51% interest. Thereafter, JCI will be the joint venture manager. JCI has the optional right to increase its ownership to 65% of any particular license by financing the lesser of an additional $4.5 million of expenditures or a bankable feasibility study on that license.
The joint venture agreement with JCI also contemplates ongoing reconnaissance exploration activity by CRAL, throughout Ethiopia. CRAL can submit exploration ideas to JCI, and if accepted, JCI will fund all cost of such programs though issuance of a mineral license to earn a 51% joint venture interest in the project. Two such programs are currently active.
In October, 1996, an application was submitted by the CRAL-JCI joint venture for a Mineral Prospecting License in the Tendaho Graben area covering 1100 square kilometers which was subsequently issued. A Mineral Prospecting License is valid for one year after which period, portions of the area may be converted to Exploration Licenses. The joint venture has committed to spend a minimum of $50,000 during the one year period. CRAL will be required to fund 49% of the costs.
During 1997, CRAL and JCI expended $1.3 million on the various Ethiopian licenses and exploration activities.
ZIMBABWE
In September, 1995, CRAL was granted Exclusive Prospecting Order (EPO) #1005 covering an area of approximately 234 square kilometers to the east of the town of Chegutu in north-central Zimbabwe. There has been recorded gold production of more than 200,000 ounces from numerous small mines and prospects within the EPO. In addition, there has been considerable unrecorded production by artisanal miners and ancient mining by indigenous peoples. Numerous small parcels within the EPO are held by others which represent earlier filed claims, mainly in the areas of past production.
The regional geology consists of low grade metamorphic mafic volcanic rocks (greenstone) of Archean age which are intercalated with felsic volcanics and banded iron formations. These rocks are cut by somewhat younger Archean granites. Most of the prior gold production has been derived from either granite or greenstone hosts adjacent to or on the granite-greenstone contact. Mineralization is often related to major shear zones, parallel to, and within the greenstone belt.
CRAL has completed a review of the known information on geology, land ownership, past production and claimholders of record. In 1996 CRAL conducted orientation geochemical studies within the EPO as well as geological and geochemical evaluation of several of the inholding claims through option agreements with the owners. In February, 1997, CRAL, signed a Heads of Agreement with Cambrian Resources, N.L.
(Cambrian), an Australian mining company. Under the terms of the agreement Cambrian could earn a 40% interest in the property by spending $240,000 on exploration by September 14, 1997. Cambrian can increase their ownership to 55% by spending an additional $240,000 by December 30, 1999. During 1997, Cambrian expended approximately $69,000 on the property, principally related to geophysical surveys, sampling and assaying. CRAL is currently evaluating certain proposed changes to the agreement due to the low expenditures levels incurred by Cambrian to date.
TITLE TO PROPERTY
U.S. MINERAL PROPERTIES
The Company's U.S. mineral properties consist of fee mineral rights, leases covering state and private lands, leases of unpatented mining claims, and unpatented mining claims located or otherwise acquired by the Company. Many of the Company's mining properties in the United States are unpatented mining claims to which the Company has only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. In addition, in order to retain title to an unpatented mining claim, a claim holder must have met annual assessment work requirements ($100 per claim) through September 1, 1992, and must have complied with stringent state and federal regulations pertaining to the filing of assessment work affidavits. Moreover, after September 1, 1992, a claim holder must pay a maintenance fee to the United States of $100 per claim per year for each assessment year instead of performing assessment work. In addition, a payment of $100 per claim is required for each new claim located. State law may, in some instances, still require performance of assessment work.
The present status of the Company's unpatented mining claims located on public lands of the U.S. allows the claimant the exclusive right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals and industrial minerals, found therein, and also to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the U.S. The Company remains at risk that the claims may be forfeited either to the U.S. or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements as to location and maintenance of the claims.
Because the Company believes that it has established the existence of valuable mineral deposits in certain of its properties, and has maintained and improved the claims in the manner required by law, it has sought to enhance its rights in those properties by seeking issuance of mineral patents. In July of 1992, the Company caused four applications for mineral patent for the 20 lode mining claims comprising the then-known ore reserves at the Briggs property to be filed with the California State Office of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). On December 30, 1993, the Company caused five applications for mineral patent for the 15 placer mining claims which encompass known ore reserves on public lands for the diatomite operations conducted by the Company's subsidiary, CR Minerals, to be filed with the Nevada State Office of the BLM. On October 1, 1994, while the California and Nevada patent applications were pending, Congress imposed a moratorium on accepting and processing mineral patent applications within the Department of the Interior. Under the terms of the moratorium (as interpreted by the Secretary of the Interior), and solely as a result of the inaction of the California State Office prior to the time the moratorium became effective, the Secretary considers the California applications not to be exempt from the moratorium, and therefore will not allow them to be processed while the moratorium remains in effect. The Nevada applications are considered exempt by the Secretary and will be adjudicated even if the moratorium continues.
Before the Secretary's position on the Nevada applications was known, the Company instituted litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada to attempt to force the Secretary to construe all of the Nevada and California applications as exempt from the moratorium and to diligently process all of them, either by granting patents or by contesting the claims. However, the Court has declined to compel the Secretary to expedite processing of the applications. That decision is presently being appealed, but the Court's decision does not determine the validity of the claims, nor does it directly affect the Company's basic ability to conduct mining operations on the claims. The Company has no reason to believe that grounds exist for denial of any of the patents when and if they are ultimately adjudicated. However, there can be no assurance that such patents will be granted.
For the last several Congressional sessions, bills have been repeatedly introduced in the U.S. Congress which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. As of March 10, 1998, no such bills have passed. If enacted, such legislation could substantially increase the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could impair the ability of companies to develop mineral resources on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although it is impossible to predict at this point what any legislated royalties might be, enactment could adversely affect the potential for development of such claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. The Company's financial performance could therefore be affected adversely by passage of such legislation.
The Company supports reasonable, rational changes to the Mining Law of 1872 and is currently active in industry efforts to work with Congress to achieve responsible changes to mining law. Although the exact nature or timing of any mining law changes cannot be predicted, enactment of any federal mining law changes would not affect the Company's Kendall, McDonald, or Seven-Up Pete projects, or the CR Minerals diatomite and pumice properties currently being mined, because these projects are not on federal lands. Other portions of the CR Minerals diatomite project, the Briggs project, the Mountain View project, and certain other exploration properties, however, do occur on federal mining claims and could be materially affected by such legislation.
FOREIGN MINERAL PROPERTIES
In the countries outside the United States where the Company is operating, the rights to minerals are vested with the government. Mineral rights are granted by the government through concessions, licenses or leases. Often, the earliest stage work is conducted under Reconnaissance or Prospecting Permits which have a duration of one to two years and cover large areas. Exploration Licenses or Concessions often will involve a considerably smaller area and will have a duration of one to three years, often with the right to extend for one or two additional years with a reduction of the size of the area with each renewal. Exploration Licenses usually contain the right to convert to a Mining License or Concession provided the Licensee adheres to the terms of the Exploration License and has defined an economic mineral deposit. Mining Licenses are generally for a term of 10 to 20 years or longer or for the economic life of the deposit. Usually the Licensee must considerably reduce the size of the area held when converting from an Exploration License to a Mining License.
Mineral Licenses generally have a land rental charge which varies from a few cents to several dollars per hectare per year and increases from Prospecting to Exploration to Mining Licenses. Some countries have no royalty provisions on production from Mining Licenses, whereas others will charge royalties varying from 1-5% of the value of the minerals produced. Several countries require a free carried interest in a mining operation at levels of 10-20% equity participation, although most countries in which the Company is working do not. A number of countries charge a tax of 10-20% on dividends which are remitted outside the country.
Income tax rates vary from 30-40% in the countries in which the Company is working. In several countries the sole benefit, outside of land rental, that the country derives from Mining Licenses is through collection of income tax.
LEASED PROPERTY
The Company leases approximately 7,100 square feet of office space at 14142 Denver West Parkway, Golden, Colorado 80401, under a lease which expires March 31, 1998. Rent is presently $8,878 per month. The Company expects to extend its lease on a month-to-month basis and enter into a longer-term commitment during the second quarter of 1998. The Company maintains storage and/or facilities in Golden, Colorado; Reno and Gerlach, Nevada; Lincoln, Montana; and Ridgecrest, California, on a month-to-month basis. CR Minerals maintains storage facilities in several states and leases land for its processing facilities in Fernley, Nevada, for $1,080 per month under a lease which expires September, 2007.
ITEM 3.