ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table provides a summary of the most significant properties in which the Company has an interest as of December 31, 2003. More detailed information regarding each of these properties is provided in the text that follows.
CANYON RESOURCES CORPORATION
PROPERTIES AS OF 12/31/03
1.
Net to Canyon’s interest in the property.
2.
To date - an additional amount of $10 million will be paid to Phelps Dodge when all permits have been achieved or construction commences.
3.
See discussion at “Development Properties - Seven-Up Pete Venture - Legal Status.”
4.
Property has been sold with a retained 2.5% net smelter return royalty.
PRODUCTION PROPERTIES
BRIGGS MINE
General
The Briggs Mine, located on the west side of the Panamint Range near Death Valley, California, was acquired by the Company in 1990. It is 16 miles northeast of Trona and 35 miles northeast of Ridgecrest in Inyo County, California. Access from Trona is by 33 miles of paved and graded gravel roads. The Company owns or controls, through leasehold interests, 100% of the Briggs Mine, subject to a 3% net smelter returns royalty on gold produced from April 1, 2001 onward in excess of 175,000 ounces. From April 1, 2001 through December 31, 2003, the Briggs Mine had produced 167,316 ounces of gold.
Briggs’ holdings include 165 unpatented mining claims and 2 patented mining claims that comprise an area of approximately 3,340 acres. The passage of the California Desert Protection Act in 1994 removed all of the Company’s holdings from Wilderness Study Areas. The Company’s mining claims are now located on land prescribed for multiple use management by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. Patent applications were filed for certain claims on the Briggs deposit during 1993; however, no assurances can be made that these patent applications will be issued.
Operations
The Briggs Mine is an open-pit, heap leach operation, initially designed to produce an average of 75,000 ounces of gold per year over a seven-year life. From 1997 into 2002, the ore was crushed in three stages to a minus -1/4 inch size and conveyor stacked on the leach pad. Gold is recovered from leach solutions in a carbon adsorption plant and refined into doré bars on site. The Company increased the initial design production rate to approximately 85,000 ounces per year in 1999.
The Briggs Mine was constructed in 1996 and, through December 31, 2003, has produced 513,636 ounces of gold and 143,891 ounces of silver. Since 1996, a total of 73.8 million tons of rock have been mined by open-pit methods, including 50.8 million tons of waste. Of the 22.9 million tons of ore mined, 18.6 million tons have been crushed and, along with 4.2 million tons of run-of-mine ore and 0.1 million tons of underground ore, have been placed on the leach pad. A total of 701,810 ounces of gold has been placed on the leach pad during this period. Recoverable ounces in leach-pad inventory at December 31, 2003, were 15,484 ounces of gold.
During 2001, a total of 11.5 million tons of waste and ore was open-pit mined from the main Briggs, North Briggs, and Goldtooth deposits. Ore crushed and placed on leach pad totaled 3.4 million tons with an average grade of 0.036 opt gold. In addition, 0.3 million tons of lower grade (0.023 opt gold) ore were placed on pad without crushing, as run-of-mine ore. A total of 137,797 ounces of gold contained in ores was placed on the leach pad during the year. Included in these totals are 21,700 tons of rock from the underground development workings (both ore and subore) with an average grade of 0.193 opt gold. The Briggs Mine produced 96,141 ounces of gold and 28,177 ounces of silver in 2001.
During 2001, mining of ore continued from the main Briggs pit and was commenced from the North Briggs and Goldtooth deposits. In addition, underground development work was started in the high-grade (greater than 0.20 opt gold) zone of the eastern portion of the North Briggs deposit. An expansion of the capacity of the leach pad by 4.5 million tons was constructed, bringing the total pad capacity to 22.7 million tons. In addition, a pad recirculation system was installed in 2001, whereby barrens solution is applied first to previously leached areas of the pad and then applied to fresh ore. This technique is used to accelerate recovery of residual gold inventory from earlier ores placed on the leach pad.
Underground development work by an underground mining contractor began in October 2001 on a 10- to 20-foot thick, high-grade (greater than 0.20 opt gold) zone of the North Briggs deposit, with portal access from the high wall at the eastern edge of the North Briggs open pit. Through September 2002, the underground workings produced 111,400 tons of ore with an average grade of 0.188 opt gold, containing 20,980 ounces.
In mid-January 2002, the Company shut down its three stage crushing unit and mined and placed only run-of-mine ore on the leach pad for the remainder of the year. During 2002, a total of 8.9 million tons of waste and run-of-mine ore was open pit mined from the Briggs, North Briggs and Goldtooth deposits. Run-of-mine ore totaled 1.8 million tons at an average grade of 0.036 opt gold. In addition, 89,700 tons of ore from the North Briggs underground workings were contract mined with an average grade of 0.187 opt gold. The Briggs Mine produced 57,058 ounces of gold and 14,914 ounces of silver in 2002.
During the first three quarters of 2003, 0.8 million tons of ore, with an average grade of 0.040 oz/ton, were mined primarily from the Goldtooth deposit and a residual zone within the main Briggs pit. Ore mining stopped in mid-August, as the Goldtooth deposit had been fully mined out by then. Lay-back of waste rock at
the North Briggs pit commenced in the second quarter, continued throughout the balance of 2003, and continued into the first quarter of 2004 when the last ores to be mined at Briggs were encountered in early February and will be mined out by the end of April 2004.
A total of 6.9 million tons of rock were mined during 2003, which included 3.9 million tons of pre-stripping layback at North Briggs and 2.1 million tons of waste internal to the Goldtooth pit. To enhance gold recovery, contract crushing was conducted on the higher grade ores from the Goldtooth pit from April through August 2003. The Briggs Mine produced 36,645 ounces of gold and 11,519 ounces of silver in 2003.
Statistical production and financial data for the last five years for the Briggs Mine are shown on the following table.
BRIGGS MINE OPERATIONS
(1)
Excludes exploration and development drilling and permitting costs for reserve expansion.
Proven and probable reserves for the Briggs Mine, as calculated by the Company at a gold price of $325 per ounce, are shown on the following table.
Environmental Regulation
The Briggs Mine operates under the requirements of the following permits and agencies: 1) Plan of Operations, U.S. Bureau of Land Management; 2) Mining and Reclamation Plan, Inyo County; 3) Waste Discharge Requirements, Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board; 4) Permits to Operate, Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District; and 5) Section 404 Dredge and Fill Permit, Army Corps of Engineers. In January 2000, the Briggs Mine obtained an amendment to its operating permit that allows mining of the North Briggs and Goldtooth deposits. The amendment was obtained through an Environmental Assessment conducted by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management and an equivalent document approved by the Inyo County Planning Commission. In December 2000, the Briggs Mine obtained an amendment which allows increase of the leach pad total height to 190 feet, from the previous limit of 150 feet, approved by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, the Inyo County Planning Commission, and Lahontan Regional Water Quality Board. The permits issued to date are adequate for all mine operations involving currently identified mineable reserves in the Briggs deposit.
The BLM, Inyo County, the California Department of Conservation, and the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board (Lahontan) have jointly required the Company to maintain a $3,030,000 reclamation bond to ensure appropriate reclamation of the Briggs Mine. Additionally, Lahontan requires that the Company maintain a $1,010,000 bond to ensure adequate funds to mitigate any “foreseeable release” of pollutants to state waters. The principal amounts of the bonds are subject to annual review and adjustment, and the Company has partially collateralized the bonds as follows: (i) $0.151 million held directly by the Surety; (ii) a bank Letter of Credit in the amount of $0.249 million which is collateralized with cash; and (iii) a security interest in 28,000 acres of real property mineral interests in Montana. In 2000, the Company agreed to make additional cash deposits with the Surety totaling $1.5 million over a three year period at the rate of $0.5 million per year, commencing June 30, 2001. The Company has not made any deposits to date, and is in discussions with the Surety to reschedule the deposit requirements. If an acceptable rescheduling of the deposit requirements cannot be agreed to, the Surety could seek to terminate the bonds which could result in the Company becoming liable for the principal amounts under its collateral agreement with the Surety.
KENDALL MINE
General
The Kendall Mining District is located approximately 20 miles north of Lewistown, Montana, and is accessible by paved U.S. highway and graded dirt roads. The property rights controlled by the Company include approximately 1,052 acres in 70 patented claims and fee land. The Company acquired most of the patented mining claims (approximately 981 acres) through the purchase of all of the shares of Judith Gold Corporation in January 2001.
The Kendall Mine was developed as an open-pit, heap-leach gold mine in September 1988, under the management of the Kendall Venture, a joint venture between the Company and Addwest Gold, Inc. (Addwest). On January 26, 1990, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Addwest and through its wholly-owned subsidiary, CR Kendall Corporation, became the operator and sole owner of the operating interest in the Kendall Mine.
Operations
Through 1995, the Kendall Mine operation leached gold and silver from crushed ore on a year-round basis. Mining and crushing of all remaining ore was completed in January 1995. Leaching of the remaining gold in the heap leach pads continued through early 1998. All economic gold has now been recovered, and the mine is currently in a reclamation and closure mode. The Kendall Mine produced approximately 302,000 ounces of gold and approximately 136,000 ounces of silver from 1988 through 1998.
During 1997, the two heap leach pads were rinsed of residual cyanide by continuous circulation of water and a treatment plant using reverse osmosis technology was installed to reduce dissolved metals so that water from the process system could be discharged.
During 1998 and 1999, the Company tested the efficiency of a biocell in removal of constituents from water of the Barnes King drainage. This passive water-treatment system performed better than expectations. As a result of the success of the test, biocells have been designed specifically for each drainage so that they would remove the constituents and allow the clean water to flow unimpeded downstream.
During 2000, the Company advanced investigation and planning for the beneficial use of site waters in irrigation of down-drainage ranchlands. A detailed proposal of such a plan was submitted to the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”) in March 2001. If approved by the DEQ, this plan, instead of the biocell installation, would be implemented.
During 2001 through 2003, the Company continued with closure activities, principally relating to collection, treatment and disposal of water contained in the process system and mine area, and revegetation of waste rock dump surfaces.
Environmental Regulation & Reclamation
The Kendall Mine operates under permits issued by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) and other regulatory agencies. A life of mine permit was granted by the DEQ on November 1, 1989. The Company is negotiating details of final mine closure with the DEQ. The DEQ has approved the portions of the closure plan related to recontouring, revegetation, drainage and heap dewatering. Discussions of long-term water handling and heap closure methods continue.
In early 1996, the Company installed a system to capture and collect drainage from certain mine facilities. The DEQ, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Company have inspected the system subsequent to its initial installation and have agreed on system improvements which have been completed. The Company will maintain, monitor, and, if necessary, improve the system until the DEQ determines that the system is no longer needed. In October 1997, the Company applied for a Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (MPDES) permit to cover seepage from waste rock piles. The DEQ is reviewing the permit application.
Reclamation has been ongoing throughout the life of the operation. Disturbed areas are contoured and topsoil is replaced and reseeded as soon as possible. Over the last several years, more than 200,000 trees and shrubs have been planted and reclamation has been completed on three quarters of the disturbed area of the Kendall mine site. The Company’s reclamation and closure expenditures in 2003 were approximately $0.3 million, primarily related to treatment and disposal of process water, and capture and treatment of waste rock dump seepage. Final reclamation will require recontouring of spent ore heaps, roads and other areas and redistribution of topsoil, reseeding of some disturbed areas, and implementation of a long term water management system. The Company has spent approximately $8.0 million on reclamation and closure activities at the Kendall mine site through December 31, 2003. The Company has $1,920,100 on deposit in an interest bearing account with the DEQ for reclamation at the Kendall Mine.
In February 2002, the DEQ issued a decision that a comprehensive Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is needed for completion of reclamation at Kendall. The Company feels that it is crucial that reclamation proceed at Kendall without further delay and, therefore, disagrees with the agency decision, and is presently evaluating its course of action with respect to the DEQ’s decision. The Company’s estimate to achieve mine closure could be impeded by the outcome of an agency decision following an EIS.
Regulatory agencies must give final approval to all closure measures and be satisfied that the mine has met all reclamation requirements. There is no assurance of agency satisfaction with mine closure.
The Kendall Mine uses internal and external technical and legal experts to monitor and ensure environmental compliance. The Company believes the operation is currently in material compliance with all environmental and safety regulations.
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
SEVEN-UP PETE VENTURE
General
Prior to September 25, 1997, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, CR Montana Corporation (CR Montana), the Company owned a 27.75% interest in the Seven-Up Pete Venture (SPV) which includes the Seven-Up Pete gold deposit, the McDonald gold deposit, and the Keep Cool exploration property. Phelps Dodge Mining Company, a subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge), was the operator of the SPV.
On September 25, 1997, Canyon and CR Montana purchased the 72.25% participating interest in the Seven-Up Pete Venture, including the McDonald Gold Project, from Phelps Dodge. The purchase increased Canyon’s effective ownership in the project to 100%. Canyon made an initial payment of $5 million to Phelps Dodge, as part of a purchase price which was to be no less than $100 million and no more than $150 million. No additional payment is required until after all permits have been achieved or construction commences. In September 1999, Phelps Dodge subsequently agreed to amend the purchase agreement which lowered the residual payment obligation to $10 million, or, alternatively, one-third of any award received by the Seven-Up Pete Venture as a result of a taking lawsuit against the State of Montana. The purchase payment is collateralized only by the 72.25% participating interest and underlying assets transferred from Phelps Dodge to Canyon.
The Seven-Up Pete and McDonald properties are located six to eight miles east of Lincoln and 45 miles northwest of Helena, in Lewis and Clark County, Montana. Access to the properties is by dirt roads from a paved highway that crosses the property. The SPV consists of approximately 21 square miles of patented and unpatented mining claims and mineral leases of fee and state land, in general subject to a 5% net smelter returns royalty. During 1994, the state lease upon which substantially all of the currently identified McDonald ore body is located was amended. The amendment extended the primary ten-year term of the lease for the time required for review and approval of permit applications for development of the property, including the time required to resolve any appeals of permit approvals. In addition, the lease may also be held thereafter by the production of minerals in paying quantities or the payment of a delay rental of $150,000 per month. The amendment also, along with similar amendments to five other adjacent state leases, provides for cross-mining on all six leases and the consolidation of the six leases under a single management unit.
In September 1999, the SPV obtained $3.5 million in funding from Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation. The funding was in the form of $3.0 million in cash and a commitment to maintain an existing $0.5 million reclamation bond. For providing the funding, Franco-Nevada was to receive a 4% net smelter return royalty from any mineral production from properties of the SPV or, alternatively, one-third of any proceeds received by the SPV resulting from any takings lawsuit. (See “Legal Status” below.)
In July 2000, Franco-Nevada Mining Company withdrew from all of its interests in the SPV. Franco-Nevada transferred back to the SPV its 4% net smelter return royalty and 1/3 of any property takings award, in exchange for the return of $1 million of the $3 million paid earlier by Franco-Nevada to SPV.
Legal Status
On November 3, 1998, an anti-mining initiative, I-137, passed 52% to 48% by a vote of the Montana electorate, effectively bringing permitting work on the SPV to a standstill. This bill bans development of new gold and silver mines which use open-pit mining and cyanide in the treatment and recovery process in the State of Montana. For most of the campaign period leading up to the vote, mining companies and employees were
prevented from campaigning due to a previously passed initiative (I-125) which prohibited campaign expenditures by “for-profit” entities. Just 10 days prior to the election, a federal judge declared the prohibition “unconstitutional.”
On September 24, 1998, the Montana Department of Natural Resources (DNRC), the entity that administers state mineral leases, unilaterally decided to cancel the permitting extension of the 10-year lease term of the state leases that pertain to the McDonald Gold Project. This was provoked by Canyon’s inability to continue permitting at McDonald due to the anti-mining initiative, I-137, and would require the Company, after a period of approximately seventeen months, to commence paying a delay rental of $150,000 per month in order to maintain the leases. In February 2000, pursuant to its September 1998 decision, the DNRC determined that the primary terms of the mineral leases had expired. In August 2000, the SPV filed a report with the DNRC, containing technical analyses, conducted by 12 individuals and research laboratories with extensive experience in environmental chemistry, extractive metallurgy and mineral processing technology, underground mining technologies, and mining engineering and economic analyses, which demonstrates conclusively that the Venture’s proposed open-pit mining and cyanide heap-leach processing is the only technology that can be applied economically to the McDonald and Seven-Up Pete gold/silver deposits. Further, the analyses demonstrate that the proposed open-pit, cyanide heap leaching technology results in maximum resource conservation of this valuable and unique deposit (McDonald) and poses far less risk to human health and the environment than any of the alternative technologies. All alternative existing technologies for development of the deposits within the constraints of I-137 were investigated and analyzed. In February 2001, on the basis of the allegation that the SPV had terminated permitted activities under the leases, the DNRC declared the leases invalid. The Company has initiated judicial review of the agency’s decisions and has added the judicial review to its lawsuit against the State of Montana, described below. It is the Company’s position that the permitting process has been interrupted by the threat and passage of I-137 and, thus, the permit extension and leases are continued until the governmental impediment is resolved.
The SPV filed two lawsuits in April 2000 against the State of Montana seeking to have I-137 declared unconstitutional or, alternatively, seeking to obtain a “takings” or damage award for the lost value of the McDonald, Seven-Up Pete and Keep Cool mineral properties. These lawsuits are based on, amongst others, (i) the right not to be deprived of property without due process of law; (ii) the right to equal protection under the laws; and (iii) the right to be protected against laws which impair the obligations of existing contracts. The suit further asserts that the State, by enacting I-137, has breached its contractual obligations and its covenant of good faith and fair dealing with the SPV. Since 1989, the SPV had expended more than $76 million in exploration and development of the properties which include six mineral leases granted by the State for the purpose of mining metalliferous minerals. For purposes of the takings aspect of the lawsuit, alternative technology analyses submitted to the DNRC (and the court) demonstrate that enactment of I-137 has “taken” the total value of the properties from the SPV. The amount of a takings reward would be the value of taken property as determined by the court. The Company expects to present evidence that the value of the taken property could be as high as several hundred million dollars before litigation and related expenses.
The United States District Court issued a ruling August 30, 2001, in which the Court dismissed the SPV’s substantive due process claim but, as requested by the SPV, ruled that the remainder of the SPV’s claims could be pursued at such time as the State lawsuit was concluded. The Montana State District Court issued a ruling November 1, 2001 in response to a Motion to Dismiss and a Motion for Summary Judgment by the State of Montana. In this ruling, the Court dismissed four of the SPV’s fourteen counts, including its substantive due process and equal protection challenges to I-137’s validity. The decision maintained for adjudication the contract impairment validity challenge, contract damage claims, and all of the takings claims. Following the November 2001 ruling by the State District Court, the State filed a new Motion for Summary Judgment as to all claims. In an Order dated December 9, 2002, the Court granted the State Summary Judgment on all of the remaining legal claims of the Company’s lawsuit and denied the Company’s Petition for Judicial Review of the DNRC’s actions regarding termination of the state leases. On January 14, 2003, the Company filed an appeal with the Montana Supreme Court of the State District Court Order. The Montana State Supreme Court heard the appeal on October 28, 2003, and a ruling is expected during 2004.
In March 2001, the Sieben Ranch Company (SRC) announced that it is suing the State of Montana to overturn I-137 and to seek a takings damage award caused by the enactment of I-137. The SRC lawsuit closely parallels the lawsuits filed against the State by Canyon Resources and the SPV. The SRC owns lands that checkerboard the State mineral leases of the McDonald gold project. Under contracts with SPV, SRC is the recipient of mineral lease rental payments and potentially royalty payments should I-137 be overturned, permits achieved, and mine development occur.
On March 2, 2004, the Montana Mining Association filed the language of a proposed new initiative to be placed before the voters of Montana at the November 2, 2004 ballot which, if enacted, would allow use of cyanide leaching in open-pit gold mines with appropriate engineering practices and environmental safeguards. If qualified for the ballot and then enacted by citizen vote in November 2004, this new initiative would make unnecessary any favorable court action on behalf of the Company’s legal actions and would allow the Company to resume permitting of the McDonald Gold Project. In any case, the Company will continue its legal efforts until the I-137 impediment is removed.
Geology and Exploration
The McDonald and Seven-Up Pete deposits, described below, cannot be developed as operating mines unless and until the anti-mining initiative, I-137, previously described under Legal Status, is overturned, set aside, or modified. As a result, neither the McDonald nor Seven-Up Pete deposits constitute “reserves” as defined in Industry Guide No. 7, which stipulates the requirement for legal extraction in the definition of proven and probable reserves. No additional information which has been or may be issued by the Company with respect to these properties should be deemed “reserves” as such are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
McDonald Property
During 1989 and 1990, exploration conducted on the McDonald property included geophysical and geochemical surveys, preliminary metallurgical testing, and drilling of 76 holes for a total of 41,331 feet. This early exploration drilling discovered a sizeable gold deposit. The McDonald property is partially covered by a siliceous sinter deposited by an ancient hot spring system. The sinter overlies shallow dipping volcanic units which have been strongly fractured and mineralized. The gold mineralization occurs primarily in a favorable rhyolitic volcanic unit. Drilling on the McDonald property continued from 1991 through 1994.
A 1993 Feasibility Study indicated that 205.1 million tons of the McDonald deposit, with an average grade of 0.025 opt, could be mined economically (at a gold price of $375/oz.) in an open-pit, heap-leaching operation. The study indicated that mining and crushing of 121 million tons of mineralized material above a 0.016 opt cutoff grade (with an average grade of 0.034 opt) and mining and direct loading onto the leach pad of an additional 84 million tons of lower grade mineralized material (averaging 0.012 opt) all could be mined, with an expected average 72% recovery of the contained gold.
The McDonald gold deposit has been defined by 637 drillholes, containing 475,000 feet, over an area of approximately 8,000 feet in east-west dimension and 4,000 feet in north-south dimension. Seventy-nine of these drillholes, including 56,300 feet, were coreholes. This data base includes 168 holes drilled since the 1993 Feasibility Study. Every five foot sample interval has been assayed by outside commercial labs for its gold content, with routine check assays. The rock obtained in the coreholes was used extensively for metallurgical testing of leaching characteristics of the deposit.
In spite of the prohibition of development and mining of the McDonald deposit posed by I-137, but because of the need for an updated design of the project should I-137 be overturned or modified, in 2003, the Company commissioned an experienced engineering firm, Chlumsky, Armbrust and Meyer (CAM) to conduct a Pre-Feasibility Study and redesign of the McDonald Gold Project. This study integrates the results of additional
metallurgical and drilling data, a $350/oz gold price, and information obtained from public hearings on the Plan of Operations submitted in 1994, all changed conditions since the 1993 Feasibility Study. These factors were combined with the objective of producing a redesign which could obtain lower capital and operating costs.
The resulting redesign of the McDonald Gold Project has produced a Pre-Feasibility Study for an open-pit mining operation utilizing a dedicated leach pad with in-pad solution storage for run-of-mine (no crushing) leaching. If I-137 were to be overturned and development of the project were legally possible, CAM’s redesign pre-feasibility, completed at a $350 gold price, indicates that gold and silver can be produced profitably from the McDonald deposit at a $325 gold price, which approximates the average price of gold for the prior three years. The redesign utilizes average recovery factors of 67.5% and 33.0% for gold and silver, respectively, of the total content of each metal in the run-of-mine ore placed on leach pad. The redesign integrates the following environmental advantages over the 1993 design:
-
no facilities located on the alluvial valley of the Blackfoot River
-
in-pad solution storage, therefore, no open ponds
-
no relocation of State Highway 200
-
mine buildings and facilities located out of sight and away from the highway
-
non-ore rock piles lined for containment of any seepage
-
capping of leach pads with impermeable synthetic liner
McDONALD GOLD DEPOSIT (1)
MINERALIZED MATERIAL
(1)
Currently constrained from development due to the Montana anti-mining law, I-137, the validity of which has been challenged by several lawsuits and a new initiative (See “Legal Status” above).
(2)
Cutoff grade is the lowest grade of gold that is included in each category of tons and grade of mineralized material.
Environmental baseline studies have been conducted since 1989, providing the necessary information to design and locate facilities for the proposed McDonald gold mine. Baseline studies include air quality, meteorology, surface water, groundwater, wildlife, fisheries, aquatics, vegetation, soils, recreation, transportation, visual resources, wetlands, cultural resources, and socioeconomics.
In 1994, the SPV completed environmental baseline and engineering studies that demonstrate that the proposed McDonald gold mine can be operated in an environmentally sound manner. This information was used to prepare and file an application for Plan of Operations with the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) in November 1994. The DEQ declared the application complete in 1996 and was preparing an
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) with the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) as co-lead agencies.
The agencies hired experienced consulting firms to prepare the EIS. The consultants were to complete the EIS under supervision of the lead agencies with the SPV bearing all costs through an arrangement with the lead agencies. The lead agencies were actively preparing the EIS when the threat of the anti-mining initiative, I-137, was proposed mid-year 1998. (See “Legal Status.”). With the threat of passage and the actual passage of I-137 in November 1998, all permitting work on the McDonald project was suspended.
Most of the McDonald gold deposit occurs on land owned by the State of Montana and is subject to a 5% net smelter return royalty payable to the state school lands trust, the principal beneficiary of which is Montana Tech, part of the state university system. A minor portion of the McDonald gold deposit occurs on land owned by the Sieben Ranch Company (SRC) and is subject to a 5% net smelter return royalty
Seven-Up Pete Property
There are no current plans to develop or mine the Seven-Up Pete deposit at this time, in that I-137 currently prohibits its development. Prior to its development at any time in the future, an Environmental Impact Statement for Seven-Up Pete would have to be prepared, which would consider the cumulative impact of simultaneous operation of this property and the McDonald operation.
Between 1989 and 1993, exploration, bulk sampling, development studies, metallurgical testing, and environmental baseline studies were conducted on the Seven-Up Pete property. By 1993, the total drilling on the property was 378 holes for 159,410 feet of drilling. A draft Preliminary Feasibility Study was completed in January 1993, updating an earlier 1991 study. The 1993 Preliminary Feasibility Study indicates that the Seven-Up Pete gold deposit contains 10.3 million tons of mineralized rock with an average grade of 0.058 ounce of gold per ton.
A comprehensive Pre-Feasibility Study completed in early 1999 documents that the Seven-Up Pete deposit is economically viable at gold prices between $300 per ounce and $350 per ounce when developed in conjunction with the nearby McDonald Gold Project. The Seven-Up Pete mineralized material would be mined in an open pit, hauled by truck to the McDonald site, and crushed and heap leached at the McDonald facility. Using a dilution factor of 25%, the Seven-Up Pete deposit contains 11.7 million tons of mineralized material, with an average grade of 0.051 ounce of gold per ton and 0.24 ounce of silver per ton.
The Seven-Up Pete property is covered by middle Tertiary andesitic volcanic rocks. The most important controls on mineralization at Seven-Up Pete are north to northwest-trending faults that have localized quartz-pyrite-precious metal mineralization. The structures generally dip to the west and can be up to 150 feet wide. Gold and silver occur in high grade quartz veins that are localized near the margins of the shear zone, as well as in lower grade shattered zones between the high grade veins. Gold mineralization occurs as free gold as well as submicroscopic particles associated with pyrite.
Environmental Regulation
The McDonald deposit occurs on private and state lands. There are no federal lands involved in the Plan of Operations for the McDonald project. The Seven-Up Pete deposit occurs on patented mining claims within a U.S. National Forest. As with all mining projects, careful environmental study and permitting will be required before a mine can be developed on either property. There are no assurances that all needed permits will be issued nor that, in the event they are issued, such issuance will be timely, nor that conditions contained in permits issued by the agencies will not be so onerous as to preclude construction and operation of the project.
Mining activity in the United States is subject to the granting of numerous permits under applicable Federal and State statutes, including, but not limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Water
Act, the Clean Air Act, and the Montana Environmental Policy Act. It is not legal to engage in mining activity without securing the permits required by these and other statutes. Initiation of gold production at the McDonald project will thus require the granting of numerous permits, some of which are discretionary.
Major permits include the Operating Permit from the DEQ, the Operating Plan from the DNRC, the Air Quality Permit (DEQ), the Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (DEQ), a Non-Degradation Authorization (DEQ), a Stormwater Discharge Permit (DEQ), a Water Rights Permit (DNRC), a Section 404 Dredge and Fill Permit from the U.S. Army COE, and a Fiscal Impact Plan which must be approved by the Montana Hard Rock Impact Board and numerous local government units.
An EIS was being prepared by three co-lead agencies, DEQ, DNRC, and COE, when the anti-mining initiative, I-137, was passed, thus suspending active work on the EIS. This EIS would be used to support all of the major permit decisions. No assurance can be given that such permits will be issued, or if issued, in what time frame such issuance would occur.
The SPV currently has a $0.5 million exploration reclamation bond fully collateralized with cash.
PRINCIPAL EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
The status of exploration activities on the Company’s major exploration properties is described below. The properties described are believed to be the most significant of the Company’s current inventory. However, that inventory is constantly changing and it is to be expected that some of the properties discussed will eventually be joint-ventured, marketed or abandoned, and that other properties owned or acquired by the Company will become the object of more intensive exploration activities.
BRIGGS/PANAMINT PROPERTIES
General
Outside the Briggs Mine, the Company has defined several advanced stage exploration targets within its 3,340 acre claim block. The Briggs gold deposit is hosted by Precambrian quartz and amphibolite gneisses that have been severely deformed by faults of Tertiary age. High-angle faults and shear zones have acted as vertical conduits that channeled gold-bearing hydrothermal fluids upwards into a series of stacked low-angle faults. Since the discovery of the Briggs gold deposit, the Company had developed a detailed geological understanding of this deposit type. Using this knowledge, the Company has identified significant gold mineralization within the Briggs claim block extending for 10 miles along the western flank of the Panamint Mountain Range. Areas identified within this block (from south to north) with indicated potential to host gold mineralization include Goldtooth, Briggs, North Briggs, Jackson, Cecil R, Pleasant Canyon, and Jackpot. In 1991, considerable drilling was conducted on the Goldtooth, Jackson and Cecil R areas. Access to many parts of the claim block for drilling was severely hampered by the presence of Wilderness Study Areas. In 1994, the WSA designation was removed from the entire claim block.
The last holes drilled in the greater Briggs area in 1997 were ore holes drilled at North Briggs. The mineralized feeder zone at North Briggs has not yet been located. There is a strong opportunity that the mineralization at North Briggs was introduced along the same vertical feeder structures that introduced the mineralization to the south at the Briggs and Goldtooth deposits. Thus, the first priority exploration target in the Panamint District is to test offsets to the north and east at North Briggs.
In addition, a separate, relatively undrilled target of significant gold mineralization is the Cecil R/Jackson area located two to four miles north of the Briggs Mine and within the Company’s claims in the Panamint District. Earlier drilling delineated 220,000 tons of mineralized rock with an average grade of 0.038 opt at Cecil R. A cluster of holes drilled at the Jackson area, 8,000 feet south of Cecil R, encountered 30 to 75-foot thicknesses of 0.06 opt to 0.116 opt gold grades along a structural zone which extends to the north beyond
the area of drilling. A large area of anomalous gold values has been sampled in surface rocks along 2,000 feet of this structural zone north of Jackson to the location where the gold-bearing structural zone passes beneath gravel cover. This same structural zone may be the feeder conduit for the gold mineralization at Cecil R, 8,000 feet to the north. The Cecil R/Jackson area represents a significant target for further exploration drilling by the Company in efforts to develop the next mineable gold deposit in the Panamint District.
The Company has conducted reconnaissance and detailed mapping and geochemical sampling of nearly the entire claim block. An aerial geophysical program was conducted across the entire claim block in 1996 and was followed up with ground reconnaissance in 1997. The geophysical and geochemical data will be used to assist further exploration for concealed gold deposits on the property.
Environmental Regulation
In December 2002, the Company’s Briggs Mine obtained a permit from the US Bureau of Land Management to conduct exploration activities in and around the Cecil R and Jackson gold occurrences. In January 2003, two environmental groups filed an Appeal and Request for Stay of Approval of the exploration permit. The appeal will be heard by the Interior Board of Land Appeal (IBLA). The Company is opposing the appeal and request for stay of the exploration permit.
In April 2003, the California Legislature passed a bill which stipulates that, if a project is located within one mile of a Native American sacred site and on limited use lands within the California Desert Conservation Area (CDCA), new open-pit metal mine projects must be backfilled during reclamation and any disturbances to sacred sites must be mitigated to the sole satisfaction of the Native American tribe. The Company’s Briggs project is located in the Panamint Range within the designated limited use land of the CDCA and the nearby Timbisha Shoshone Native American tribe has stated that they consider the entire project area to be sacred. The Company could be prohibited from developing any additional gold deposits in the Panamint Range due to passage of this law.
On December 12, 2002, the California State Mining and Geology Board (CSMGB) enacted an Emergency Backfill Regulation, for 120 days, that essentially requires that all future metal mines be backfilled to the original contour of the landscape. On April 10, 2003, the CSMGB made this Backfill Regulation permanent. Because of the high cost of backfilling, this regulation essentially eliminates any potential new mines on the Company’s properties in the Panamint Range.
MONTANA PROPERTIES
The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, CR Montana Corporation, owns approximately 900,000 acres of mineral rights and fee lands in western Montana. The fee mineral rights underlie surface rights owned by other parties. The lands and mineral rights are comprised primarily of lands assembled in the early 1900s by The Anaconda Company for their timber and mineral potential. The lands occur in fourteen counties in the mountainous terrain west of the Continental Divide, with most of the lands being located within fifty miles east and west of Missoula, extending to the Idaho State line, and within sixty miles west of Kalispell in northwestern Montana. The mineral rights and fee lands contain many known occurrences of gold, silver, copper, barite, phosphate, and other mineral commodities. During 2003, the Company sold several parcels of mineral rights and fee lands, realizing proceeds of approximately $0.2 million.
LATIN AMERICAN EXPLORATION
Argentina
In July 1997, CR International Corporation (CRIC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Purchase and Sales Agreement with Minera El Desquite S.A. (Minera) for its Mina Cancha property. The agreement initially required Minera to pay CRIC $2.0 million over five years and a 2.5% net
smelter return on any production from the property. In 1998, the purchase terms were modified to lower the payments in the first three years, but increase the total purchase price to $2.42 million. Through 2001, CRIC had received payments totaling approximately $0.6 million under the agreement. In 2002, CRIC received approximately $1.5 million in negotiated final payments of the initial purchase price, with the retention of a 2.5% net smelter return on any production from the property. The Mina Cancha property is an epithermal gold exploration prospect in highly altered volcanic rocks, and is part of the Esquel property now being actively developed by Meridian Gold Inc.
TITLE TO PROPERTY
U.S. Mineral Properties
The Company’s U.S. mineral properties consist of fee mineral rights, leases covering state and private lands, leases of unpatented mining claims, and unpatented mining claims located or otherwise acquired by the Company. Many of the Company’s mining properties in the United States are unpatented mining claims to which the Company has only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. In addition, in order to retain title to an unpatented mining claim, a claim holder must have met annual assessment work requirements ($100 per claim) through September 1, 1992, and must have complied with stringent state and federal regulations pertaining to the filing of assessment work affidavits. Moreover, after September 1, 1992, a holder of an unpatented mining claim, mill or tunnel site claim must pay a maintenance fee to the United States of $100 per claim per year for each assessment year instead of performing assessment work. In addition, a payment of $100 per claim is required for each new claim located. State law may, in some instances, still require performance of assessment work.
The present status of the Company’s unpatented mining claims located on public lands of the U.S. allows the claimant the exclusive right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals and industrial minerals, found therein, and also to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the U.S. The Company remains at risk that the claims may be forfeited either to the U.S. or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements as to location and maintenance of the claims.
LEASED PROPERTY
The Company leases approximately 2,567 square feet of office space at 14142 Denver West Parkway, Golden, Colorado 80401, under a lease which expires July 31, 2004. Rent is presently $4,000 per month. The Company maintains storage and/or facilities in Lincoln, Montana, and Ridgecrest, California, on a month-to-month basis.
ITEM 3.