Item 2 - Properties for more information regarding the transmission and distribution lines. Most of the transmission and distribution services are sold, in combination with electric power, to retail customers of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries in their service territories. These sales are made at rates established and approved by the state utility commissions of the states in which they operate, and in some instances, approved by the FERC. See Regulation-Rates. The FERC regulates and approves the rates for wholesale transmission transactions. See Regulation-FERC. As discussed below, some transmission services also are separately sold to non-affiliated companies.
AEP’s public utility subsidiaries (other than AEGCo) hold franchises or other rights to provide electric service in various municipalities and regions in their service areas. In some cases, these franchises provide the utility with the exclusive right to provide electric service. These franchises have varying provisions and expiration dates. In general, the operating companies consider their franchises to be adequate for the conduct of their business. For a discussion of competition in the sale of power, see Competition.
AEP Transmission Pool
Transmission Equalization Agreement: APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo operate their transmission lines as a single interconnected and coordinated system and are parties to the Transmission Equalization Agreement, dated April 1, 1984, as amended (TEA), defining how they share the costs and benefits associated with their relative ownership of the extra-high-voltage transmission system (facilities rated 345 KV and above) and certain facilities operated at lower voltages (138 KV and above). The TEA has been approved by the FERC. Sharing under the TEA is based upon each company’s “member-load ratio.” The member-load ratio is calculated monthly by dividing such company’s highest monthly peak demand for the last twelve months by the aggregate of the highest monthly peak demand for the last twelve months for all east zone operating companies. As of December 31, 2004, the member-load ratios were as follows:
The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated among the parties to the TEA during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004:
Transmission Coordination Agreement: PSO, SWEPCo, TCC, TNC and AEPSC are parties to the TCA. The TCA has been approved by the FERC and establishes a coordinating committee, which is charged with the responsibility of overseeing the coordinated planning of the transmission facilities of the west zone public utility subsidiaries, including the performance of transmission planning studies, the interaction of such subsidiaries with independent system operators and other regional bodies interested in transmission planning and compliance with the terms of the OATT filed with the FERC and the rules of the FERC relating to such tariff.
Under the TCA, the west zone public utility subsidiaries have delegated to AEPSC the responsibility of monitoring the reliability of their transmission systems and administering the AEP OATT on their behalf. The TCA also provides for the allocation among the west zone public utility subsidiaries of revenues collected for transmission and ancillary services provided under the AEP OATT.
The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated among the parties to the TCA during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004:
Transmission Services for Non-Affiliates: In addition to providing transmission services in connection with their own power sales, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries and other System companies also provide transmission services for non-affiliated companies. See Regional Transmission Organizations. Transmission of electric power by AEP’s public utility subsidiaries is regulated by the FERC.
Coordination of East and West Zone Transmission: AEP’s System Transmission Integration Agreement provides for the integration and coordination of the planning, operation and maintenance of the transmission facilities of AEP’s east and west zone public utility subsidiaries. The System Transmission Integration Agreement functions as an umbrella agreement in addition to the TEA and the TCA. The System Transmission Integration Agreement contains two service schedules that govern:
·
The allocation of transmission costs and revenues and
·
The allocation of third-party transmission costs and revenues and System dispatch costs.
The System Transmission Integration Agreement contemplates that additional service schedules may be added as circumstances warrant.
Regional Transmission Organizations
On April 24, 1996, the FERC issued orders 888 and 889. These orders require each public utility that owns or controls interstate transmission facilities to file an open access network and point-to-point transmission tariff that offers services comparable to the utility’s own uses of its transmission system. The orders also require utilities to functionally unbundle their services, by requiring them to use their own tariffs in making off-system and third-party sales. As part of the orders, the FERC issued a pro-forma tariff that reflects the Commission’s views on the minimum non-price terms and conditions for non-discriminatory transmission service. In addition, the orders require all transmitting utilities to establish an OASIS, which electronically posts transmission information such as available capacity and prices, and require utilities to comply with Standards of Conduct that prohibit utilities’ system operators from providing non-public transmission information to the utility’s merchant energy employees. The orders also allow a utility to seek recovery of certain prudently incurred stranded costs that result from unbundled transmission service.
In December 1999, FERC issued Order 2000, which provides for the voluntary formation of RTOs, entities created to operate, plan and control utility transmission assets. Order 2000 also prescribes certain characteristics and functions of acceptable RTO proposals.
As a condition of FERC’s approval in 2000 of AEP’s merger with CSW, AEP was required to transfer functional control of its transmission facilities to one or more RTOs. In May 2002, AEP announced an agreement with PJM to pursue terms for its east zone public utility subsidiaries to participate in PJM, a FERC-approved RTO. The AEP East Companies integrated into PJM on October 1, 2004.
SWEPCo and PSO currently intend to transfer functional control of their transmission assets to SPP subject to receipt of appropriate regulatory approvals. In February 2004, the FERC conditionally approved SPP as an RTO. In October 2004, the FERC issued an order granting RTO status to SPP subject to certain filings. The Arkansas Public Service Commission and LPSC have required filings related to SWEPCo’s transfer of functional control of transmission facilities to an RTO. The remaining west zone public utility subsidiaries (TCC and TNC) are members of ERCOT.
See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Rate Matters, included in the 2004 Annual Reports and Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations under the heading entitled RTO Formation for a discussion of public utility subsidiary participation in RTOs.
Regional Through and Out Rates
In July 2003, the FERC issued an order directing PJM and the MISO to make compliance filings for their respective OATTs to eliminate the transaction-based charges for through and out (T&O) transmission service on transactions where the energy is delivered within the proposed Midwest ISO and PJM expanded regions (Combined Footprint). The elimination of the T&O rates will reduce the transmission service revenues collected by the RTOs and thereby reduce the revenues received by transmission owners under the RTOs’ revenue distribution protocols.
AEP and several other utilities in the Combined Footprint filed a proposal for new rates to become effective December 1, 2004. In November 2004, FERC eliminated the T&O rates and replaced the rates temporarily through March 2006 with a seams elimination cost adjustment (SECA) fees. AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries received approximately $196 million of T&O rate revenues for the twelve months ended September 30, 2004, the last twelve months prior to joining PJM. The portion of those revenues associated with transactions for which the T&O rate is being eliminated and replaced by SECA fees was $171 million. Effective April 2006, all transmission costs that would otherwise be defrayed by T&O rates in the Combined Footprint will be subject to recovery from native load customers of AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries. At this time, management is unable to predict whether any resultant increase in rates applicable to AEP’s internal load will be recoverable on a timely basis from state retail customers. Unless new replacement rates compensate AEP for its lost revenues and any increase in AEP’s East zone public utility subsidiaries’ transmission expenses from these new rates are fully recovered in retail rates on a timely basis, future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will be adversely affected. See Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations under the heading entitled FERC Order on Regional Through and Out Rates for more information.
REGULATION
General
Except for retail generation sales in Ohio, Virginia and the ERCOT area of Texas, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries’ retail rates and certain other matters are subject to traditional regulation by the state utility commissions. While still regulated, retail sales in Michigan are now made at unbundled rates. See Electric Restructuring and Customer Choice Legislation and Rates. AEP’s subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FERC under the FPA. I&M and TCC are subject to regulation by the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to the operation of the Cook Plant and STP, respectively. AEP and certain of its subsidiaries are also subject to the broad regulatory provisions of PUHCA administered by the SEC.
Rates
Historically, state utility commissions have established electric service rates on a cost-of-service basis, which is designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover its cost of providing service and to earn a reasonable return on its investment used in providing that service. A utility’s cost of service generally reflects its operating expenses, including operation and maintenance expense, depreciation expense and taxes. State utility commissions periodically adjust rates pursuant to a review of (i) a utility’s revenues and expenses during a defined test period and (ii) such utility’s level of investment. Absent a legal limitation, such as a law limiting the frequency of rate changes or capping rates for a period of time as part of a transition to customer choice of generation suppliers, a state utility commission can review and change rates on its own initiative. Some states may initiate reviews at the request of a utility, customer, governmental or other representative of a group of customers. Such parties may, however, agree with one another not to request reviews of or changes to rates for a specified period of time.
The rates of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled electric service (i.e., generation, transmission and distribution service). In Ohio, Virginia and the ERCOT area of Texas, rates are transitioning from bundled cost-based rates for electric service to unbundled cost-based rates for transmission and distribution service on the one hand, and market pricing for and/or customer choice of generation on the other. In Ohio, the PUCO has approved the rate stabilization plans filed by OPCo and CSPCo which, among other things, address retail generation service rates through December 31, 2008. In Virginia, APCO’s base rates are capped, subject to certain adjustments, at their mid-1999 levels until December 31, 2010, or sooner if the VSCC finds that a competitive market for generation exists in Virginia.
Historically, the state regulatory frameworks in the service area of the AEP System reflected specified fuel costs as part of bundled (or, more recently, unbundled) rates or incorporated fuel adjustment clauses in a utility’s rates and tariffs. Fuel adjustment clauses permit periodic adjustments to fuel cost recovery from customers and therefore provide protection against exposure to fuel cost changes. While the historical framework remains in a portion of AEP’s service territory, recovery of increased fuel costs through a fuel adjustment clause is no longer provided for in Ohio. Fuel recovery is also limited in the ERCOT area of Texas, but because AEP sold MECPL and MEWTU, there is little impact on AEP of fuel recovery procedures related to service in ERCOT.
The following state-by-state analysis summarizes the regulatory environment of each jurisdiction in which AEP operates. Several public utility subsidiaries operate in more than one jurisdiction.
Indiana: I&M provides retail electric service in Indiana at bundled rates approved by the IURC. While rates are set on a cost-of-service basis, utilities may also generally seek to adjust fuel clause rates quarterly. I&M’s base rates were capped through December 31, 2004. Its fuel recovery rate was capped through February 29, 2004. On September 22, 2004, the IURC issued an order extending the interim fuel factor through March 2005, subject to true-up upon resolution of the (previously filed but unexecuted) corporate separation plan. The status of additional base and fuel clause rate caps, subject to certain conditions, is presently under discussion with the parties to a proposed settlement agreement relating to AEP’s corporate separation issues.
Ohio: CSPCo and OPCo each operates as a functionally separated utility and provides “default” retail electric service to customers at unbundled rates pursuant to the Ohio Act through December 31, 2005. The PUCO approved the rate stabilization plan filed by CSPCo and OPCo (which, among other things, addresses default retail generation service rates from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008). Retail generation rates would be determined consistent with the rate stabilization plan until December 31, 2008. CSPCo and OPCo are and will continue to provide distribution services to retail customers at rates approved by the PUCO. These rates will be frozen (with certain exceptions) from their levels as of December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2008. Transmission services will continue to be provided at rates established by the FERC. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Customer Choice and Industry Restructuring, included in the 2004 Annual Reports, for more information.
Oklahoma: PSO provides retail electric service in Oklahoma at bundled rates approved by the OCC. PSO’s rates are set on a cost-of-service basis. Fuel and purchased energy costs above the amount included in base rates are recovered by applying a fuel adjustment factor to retail kilowatt-hour sales. The factor is adjusted quarterly and is based upon forecasted fuel and purchased energy costs. Over or under collections of fuel costs for prior periods are returned to or recovered from customers when new quarterly factors are established. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Rate Matters, included in the 2004 Annual Reports, for information regarding current rate proceedings.
Texas: The Texas Act requires the legal separation of generation-related assets from transmission and distribution assets. TCC and TNC currently operate on a functionally separated basis. In January 2002, TCC and TNC transferred all their retail customers in the ERCOT area of Texas to MECPL, MEWTU and AEP Commercial and Industrial REP (an AEP affiliate). TNC’s retail SPP customers were ultimately transferred to Mutual Energy SWEPCo L.P. (an AEP affiliate). TCC and TNC provide retail transmission and distribution service on a cost-of-service basis at rates approved by the PUCT and wholesale transmission service under tariffs approved by the FERC consistent with PUCT rules. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Rate Matters, included in the 2004 Annual Reports, for information on current rate proceedings.
In May 2003, the PUCT delayed competition in the SPP area of Texas until at least January 1, 2007. As such, SWEPCo’s Texas operations continue to operate and to be regulated as a traditional bundled utility with both base and fuel rates.
Virginia: APCo provides unbundled retail electric service in Virginia. APCo’s unbundled generation, transmission (which reflect FERC approved transmission rates) and distribution rates as well as its functional separation plan were approved by the VSCC in December 2001.
The Virginia Act, which was amended in 2004, capped APCO’s base rates at their mid-1999 levels until the end of the transition period (now December 31, 2010), or sooner if the VSCC finds that a competitive market for generation exists in Virginia. The Virginia Act permits APCo to seek two changes to its capped rates as follows: one prior to July 1, 2007, and one between July 1, 2007 and December 31, 2010. In addition, as a result of the 2004 amendments, APCo is entitled to annual rate changes to recover the incremental costs it incurs on and after July 1, 2004 for transmission and distribution reliability and compliance with state or federal environmental laws or regulations. The Virginia Act also allows adjustments to fuel rates during the transition period and continues to permit utilities to recover their actual fuel costs, the fuel component of their purchased power costs and certain capacity charges. APCo recovers its generation capacity charges through capped base rates.
West Virginia: APCo and Wheeling Power Company provide retail electric service at bundled rates approved by the WVPSC. A plan to introduce customer choice was approved by the West Virginia Legislature in its 2000 legislative session. However, implementation of that plan was placed on hold pending necessary changes to the state’s tax laws in a subsequent session. Those changes have not been made. Management currently believes that implementation of the plan is unlikely.
While West Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs, the most recent rate proceeding for both APCo and WPCo resulted in the suspension of their operative fuel clause mechanisms (though they continue to recover a fixed level of fuel costs through bundled rates). APCo and Wheeling Power Company are currently unable to change the current level of fuel cost recovery, though this ability could be reinstated in a future proceeding.
Other Jurisdictions: The public utility subsidiaries of AEP also provide service at regulated bundled rates in Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana and Tennessee and regulated unbundled rates in Michigan.
The following table illustrates the current rate regulation status of the states in which the public utility subsidiaries of AEP operate:
(1)
Represents the percentage of revenues from sales to retail customers from AEP utility companies operating in each state to the total AEP System revenues from sales to retail customers for the year ended December 31, 2004.
(2)
The PUCO has approved the rate stabilization plan filed by CSPCo and OPCo that begins after the market development period and extends through December 31, 2008 during which OPCo’s retail generation rates will increase 7% annually and CSPCo’s retail generation rates will increase 3% annually. Distribution rates are frozen, with certain exceptions, through December 31, 2008.
(3)
Retail electric service in the ERCOT area of Texas is provided to most customers through unaffiliated REPs with TCC and TNC providing only regulated delivery services. Retail electric service in the SPP area of Texas is provided by SWEPCo and an affiliated REP.
(4)
Capped base rates pursuant to a 1999 settlement with base rate freeze extended pursuant to merger stipulation. The status of additional base and fuel clause rate caps, subject to certain conditions, is presently under discussion and there is an issue as to whether the freeze and cap extend through 2007 under an existing corporate separation stipulation agreement. The interim fuel clause rate cap expires in April 2005.
(5)
Legislation passed in 2004 capped base rates until December 31, 2010 and expanded the rate change opportunities to one full rate case (including generation, transmission and distribution) between July 1, 2004 and June 30, 2007 and one additional full rate case between July 1, 2007 and December 31, 2010. The new law also permits APCo to recover, on a timely basis, incremental costs incurred on and after July 1, 2004 for transmission and distribution reliability purposes and to comply with state and federal environmental laws and regulations.
(6)
Expanded net energy clause suspended in West Virginia pursuant to a 1999 rate case stipulation, but subject to change in a future proceeding.
(7)
Includes, where applicable, fuel and fuel portion of purchased power.
FERC
Under the FPA, FERC regulates rates for interstate sales at wholesale, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. FERC regulations require AEP to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates. FERC also regulates unbundled transmission service to retail customers.
Under the FPA, the FERC regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce by (i) approving contracts for wholesale sales to municipal and cooperative utilities and (ii) granting authority to public utilities to sell power at wholesale at market-based rates upon a showing that the seller lacks the ability to improperly influence market prices. AEP has market-rate authority from FERC, under which most of its wholesale marketing activity takes place. In November 2001, the FERC issued an order in connection with its triennial review of AEP’s market based pricing authority requiring (i) certain actions by AEP in connection with its sales and purchases within its control area and (ii) posting of information related to generation facility status on AEP’s website. AEP appealed that order, and the FERC issued an order delaying the effective date of the order. This was done in connection with the FERC’s adoption of a new test called supply management assessment (SMA).
In April 2004, the FERC issued two orders concerning utilities’ ability to sell wholesale electricity at market-based rates. In the first order, the FERC adopted two new interim screens for assessing potential generation market power of applicants for wholesale market based rates, and described additional analyses and mitigation measures that could be presented if an applicant does not pass one of these interim screens. These two screening tests include a “pivotal supplier” test which determines if the market load can be fully served by alternative suppliers and a “market share” test which compares the amount of surplus generation at the time of the applicant’s minimum load. In July 2004, the FERC issued an order on rehearing affirming its conclusions in the April order and directing AEP and two unaffiliated utilities to file generation market power analyses within 30 days. In the second order, the FERC initiated a rulemaking to consider whether the FERC’s current methodology for determining whether a public utility should be allowed to sell wholesale electricity at market-based rates should be modified in any way.
On August 9, 2004, as amended on September 16, 2004 and November 19, 2004, AEP submitted its generation market power screens in compliance with the FERC’s orders. The analysis focused on the three major areas in which AEP serves load and owns generation resources -- ECAR, SPP and ERCOT, and the “first tier” control areas for each of those areas.
The pivotal supplier and market share screen analyses that AEP filed demonstrated that AEP does not possess market power in any of the control areas to which it is directly connected (first-tier markets). AEP passed both screening tests in all of its “first tier” markets. In its three “home” control areas, AEP passed the pivotal supplier test. As part of PJM, AEP also passes the market share screen for the PJM destination market. AEP also passed the market share screen for ERCOT. AEP did not pass the market share screen as designed by the FERC for the SPP control area.
In a December 17, 2004 Order, FERC affirmed our conclusions that we passed both market power screen tests in all areas except SPP. Because AEP did not pass the market share screen in SPP, FERC initiated a proceeding under Section 206 of the FPA in which AEP is rebuttably presumed to possess market power in SPP. Consequently, our revenues from sales within our control area of the SPP at market based rates after March 6, 2005 will be collected subject to refund to the extent that prices are ultimately found not to be just and reasonable. In February 2005 AEP filed with the FERC revisions to its market-based rate tariffs that cap the rates of wholesale power that AEP delivers within its control area of the SPP. We are unable to predict the timing or impact of any further action by the FERC.
ELECTRIC RESTRUCTURING AND CUSTOMER CHOICE LEGISLATION
Certain states in AEP’s service area have adopted restructuring or customer choice legislation. In general, this legislation provides for a transition from bundled cost-based rate regulated electric service to unbundled cost-based rates for transmission and distribution service and market pricing for the supply of electricity with customer choice of supplier. At a minimum, this legislation allows retail customers to select alternative generation suppliers. Electric restructuring and/or customer choice began on January 1, 2001 in Ohio and on January 1, 2002 in Michigan, Virginia and the ERCOT area of Texas. Electric restructuring in the SPP area of Texas has been delayed by the PUCT until at least 2007. AEP’s public utility subsidiaries operate in both the ERCOT and SPP areas of Texas.
Implementation of legislation enacted in West Virginia to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier is unlikely. In order for West Virginia’s choice plan to become effective, tax legislation must be passed to preserve pre-legislation levels of funding for state and local governments. Because such legislation has not been passed and because legislation enacted in March 2003 clarified the jurisdiction of the WVPSC over electric generation facilities, management currently believes that implementation of the plan is unlikely. In February 2003, Arkansas repealed its restructuring legislation.
See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Effects of Regulation, included in the 2004 Annual Reports, for a discussion of the effect of restructuring and customer choice legislation on accounting procedures. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Customer Choice and Industry Restructuring for additional information.
Michigan Customer Choice
Customer choice commenced for I&M’s Michigan customers on January 1, 2002. Rates for retail electric service for I&M’s Michigan customers were unbundled (though they continue to be regulated) to allow customers the ability to evaluate the cost of generation service for comparison with other suppliers. At December 31, 2004, none of I&M’s Michigan customers have elected to change suppliers and no alternative electric suppliers are registered to compete in I&M’s Michigan service territory.
Ohio Restructuring
The Ohio Act requires vertically integrated electric utility companies that offer competitive retail electric service in Ohio to separate their generating functions from their transmission and distribution functions. Following the market development period (which will terminate no later than December 31, 2005), retail customers will receive distribution and, where applicable, transmission service from the incumbent utility whose distribution rates will be approved by the PUCO and whose transmission rates will be approved by the FERC. CSPCo and OPCo filed a rate stabilization plan with the PUCO that, among other things, addresses default generation service rates from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. See Regulation-FERC for a discussion of FERC regulation of transmission rates and Regulation-Rates-Ohio for a discussion of the impact of restructuring on distribution rates. The PUCO approved the rate stabilization plan filed by CSPCo and OPCo, with certain modifications. The Commission authorized CSPCo and OPCo to remain functionally separated through the end of that three-year period.
Texas Restructuring
Signed into law in June of 1999, the Texas Act substantially amended the regulatory structure governing electric utilities in Texas in order to allow retail electric competition for all customers. Among other things, the Texas Act:
·
gave Texas customers the opportunity to choose their REP beginning January 1, 2002 (delayed until at least 2007 in the SPP portion of Texas),
·
required each utility to legally separate into a REP, a power generation company, and a transmission and distribution utility, and
·
required that REPs provide electricity at generally unregulated rates, except that the prices that may be charged to residential and small commercial customers by REPs affiliated with a utility within the affiliated utility’s service area are set by the PUCT, at the PTB, until certain conditions in the Texas Act are met.
The Texas Act provides each affected utility an opportunity to recover its generation related regulatory assets and stranded costs resulting from the legal separation of the transmission and distribution utility from the generation facilities and the related introduction of retail electric competition. Regulatory assets consist of the Texas jurisdictional amount of generation-related regulatory assets and liabilities in the audited financial statements as of December 31, 1998. Stranded costs consist of the positive excess of the net regulated book value of generation assets (as of December 31, 2001) over the market value of those assets, taking specified factors into account, as ultimately determined in a PUCT true-up proceeding.
For a discussion of (i) regulatory assets and stranded costs subject to recovery by TCC and (ii) rate adjustments made after implementation of restructuring to allow recovery of certain costs by or with respect to TCC and TNC, see Texas Regulatory Asset and Stranded Cost Recovery and Post-Restructuring Wires Charges and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Customer Choice and Industry Restructuring.
Virginia Restructuring
In April 2004, the Governor of Virginia signed legislation that extends the transition period for electricity restructuring, including capped rates, through December 31, 2010. The legislation provides specified cost recovery opportunities during the capped rate period, including two optional general base rate changes and an opportunity for timely recovery, through a separate rate mechanism, of certain incremental environmental and reliability costs incurred on and after July 1, 2004.
Texas Regulatory Assets And Stranded Cost Recovery And Post-Restructuring Wires Charges
TCC may recover generation-related regulatory assets and plant-related stranded costs. Regulatory assets consist of the Texas jurisdictional amount of generation-related regulatory assets and liabilities in the audited financial statements as of December 31, 1998. Plant-related stranded costs consist of the positive excess of the net regulated book value of generation assets (as of December 31, 2001) over the market value of those assets, taking specified factors into account. The Texas Act allows alternative methods of valuation to determine the fair market value of generation assets, including outright sale, full and partial stock valuation and asset exchanges, and also, for nuclear generation assets, the excess cost over market (ECOM) model. Carrying costs on stranded costs are also allowed to be recovered beginning January 1, 2002.
TCC’s true-up proceedings will determine the amount and recovery of:
·
net stranded generation plant costs and net generation-related regulatory assets less any unrefunded excess earnings (net stranded generation costs),
·
a true-up of actual market prices determined through legislatively-mandated capacity auctions to the projected power costs used in the PUCT’s ECOM model for 2002 and 2003 (wholesale capacity auction true-up),
·
excess of price-to-beat revenues over market prices subject to certain conditions and limitations (retail clawback),
·
final approved deferred fuel balance, and
·
net carrying costs on the above true-up amounts.
The PUCT adopted a rule in 2003 regarding the timing of the true-up proceedings scheduling TCC’s filing 60 days after the completion of the sale of TCC’s generation assets. Due to regulatory and contractual delays in the sale of its generating assets, TCC has not yet filed its true-up request.
TCC’s net true-up regulatory assets (liabilities) recorded at December 31, 2004 is set forth in the following table.
TCC’s net true-up regulatory assets (liabilities)
For a more complete discussion of recovery of regulatory assets and stranded costs in Texas, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Customer Choice and Industry Restructuring, included in the 2004 Annual Reports.
The Texas Act further permits utilities to establish a special purpose entity to issue securitization bonds for the recovery of generation-related regulatory assets and, after the true-up proceeding, the amount of plant-related stranded costs and remaining generation-related regulatory assets not previously securitized. Securitization bonds allow for regulatory assets and plant-related stranded costs to be refinanced with recovery of the bond principal and financing costs ensured through a non-bypassable rate surcharge by the regulated transmission and distribution utility over the life of the securitization bonds. Any plant-related stranded costs or generation-related regulatory assets not recovered through the sale of securitization bonds may be recovered through a separate non-bypassable competitive transition charge to transmission and distribution customers.
For a discussion of recovery of regulatory assets and stranded costs in Ohio and Virginia, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Customer Choice and Industry Restructuring, included in the 2004 Annual Reports.
COMPETITION
The public utility subsidiaries of AEP, like the electric industry generally, face increasing competition in the sale of available power on a wholesale basis, primarily to other public utilities and power marketers. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 was designed, among other things, to foster competition in the wholesale market by creating a generation market with fewer barriers to entry and mandating that all generators have equal access to transmission services. As a result, there are more generators able to participate in this market. The principal factors in competing for wholesale sales are price (including fuel costs), availability of capacity and power and reliability of service.
AEP’s public utility subsidiaries also compete with self-generation and with distributors of other energy sources, such as natural gas, fuel oil and coal, within their service areas. The primary factors in such competition are price, reliability of service and the capability of customers to utilize sources of energy other than electric power. With respect to competing generators and self-generation, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that they generally maintain a favorable competitive position. With respect to alternative sources of energy, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that the reliability of their service and the limited ability of customers to substitute other cost-effective sources for electric power place them in a favorable competitive position, even though their prices may be higher than the costs of some other sources of energy.
Significant changes in the global economy in recent years have led to increased price competition for industrial customers in the United States, including those served by the AEP System. Some of these industrial customers have requested price reductions from their suppliers of electric power. In addition, industrial customers that are downsizing or reorganizing often close a facility based upon its costs, which may include, among other things, the cost of electric power. The public utility subsidiaries of AEP cooperate with such customers to meet their business needs through, for example, providing various off-peak or interruptible supply options pursuant to tariffs filed with the various state commissions. Occasionally, these rates are first negotiated, and then filed with the state commissions. The public utility subsidiaries believe that they are unlikely to be materially adversely affected by this competition.
SEASONALITY
The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. The pattern of this fluctuation may change due to the nature and location of AEP’s facilities and the terms of power sale contracts into which AEP enters. In addition, AEP has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish AEP’s results of operations and may impact its financial condition.
INVESTMENTS
GAS OPERATIONS
During 2004 we sold our interests in Louisiana Intrastate Gas and Jefferson Island Storage & Hub. In January 2005, we sold a 98% controlling interest in HPL and related assets. We currently retain a 2% ownership interest in HPL and will provide certain transitional services to the buyer. See Notes 10 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Acquisitions, Dispositions, Discontinued Operations, Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Assets Held and Used and Subsequent Events (unaudited), respectively, included in the 2004 Annual Reports for more information. Before these sales, our gas marketing operations had been significantly curtailed. As a result of these sales, management anticipates that our gas marketing operations will be limited to managing our obligations with respect to the gas transactions entered into before to these sales.
UK OPERATIONS
Through subsidiaries, AEP operated and owned 4,000 MW of power generation facilities in the UK. These assets and related commodities contracts were sold to Scottish and Southern Energy plc in the third quarter of 2004. AEP also sold its 50 percent interest in South Coast Power Limited to co-owner Scottish Power Generation Limited in the third quarter of 2004. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Acquisitions, Dispositions, Discontinued Operations, Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Assets Held and Used, included in the 2004 Annual Reports.
OTHER
General
Through certain subsidiaries, AEP conducts business operations other than those included in other segments in which it uses and manages a portfolio of energy-related assets. Consistent with its business strategy, AEP intends to dispose of some of these non-core assets. The assets currently used and managed include:
·
MW of domestic and 605 MW of international power generation facilities (of which its ownership is approximately 551 MW and 302 MW, respectively);
·
Undeveloped and formerly operated coal properties and related facilities; and
·
Barge, rail and other fuel transportation related assets.
These operations include the following activities:
·
Entering into long-term transactions to buy or sell capacity, energy, and ancillary services of electric generating facilities at various locations in North America.
·
Holding various properties, coal reserves and royalty interests and reclaiming formerly operated mining properties in Colorado, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Ohio, Texas, Utah and West Virginia; and
·
Through MEMCO Barge Line Inc., transporting coal and dry bulk commodities, primarily on the Ohio, Illinois, and Lower Mississippi rivers for AEP, as well as unaffiliated customers. Through certain subsidiaries, AEP owns or leases 7,065 railcars, 2,230 barges, 53 towboats and a coal handling terminal with 20 million tons of annual capacity.
AEP has in the past three years written down the value of certain of these investments. See Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Acquisitions, Dispositions, Discontinued Operations, Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Assets Held and Used, included in the 2004 Annual Reports.
Dow Chemical Cogeneration Facility
Pursuant to an agreement with Dow, AEP constructed a 900 MW cogeneration facility at Dow’s chemical facility in Plaquemine, Louisiana that achieved commercial operation status on March 18, 2004. AEP’s subsidiary, OPCo, has been taking 100% of the facility’s capacity and energy over Dow’s requirements and contracted to sell the power from this facility for twenty years to Tractebel. The power supply contract with Tractebel is in dispute and the power from this plant is currently sold on the market. See Notes 7 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Commitments and Contingencies and Acquisitions, Dispositions, Discontinued Operations, Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Assets Held and Used, respectively, included in the 2004 Annual Reports, for more information.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
GENERATION FACILITIES
GENERAL
At December 31, 2004, the AEP System owned (or leased where indicated) generating plants with net power capabilities (east zone public utility subsidiaries-winter rating; west zone public utility subsidiaries-summer rating) shown in the following table:
(a)
Unit 1 of the Rockport Plant is owned one-half by AEGCo and one-half by I&M. Unit 2 of the Rockport Plant is leased one-half by AEGCo and one-half by I&M. The leases terminate in 2022 unless extended.
(b)
Unit 3 of the John E. Amos Plant is owned one-third by APCo and two-thirds by OPCo.
(c)
PSO, TCC and TNC, along with two unaffiliated companies, jointly own the Oklaunion power station. Their respective ownership interests are reflected in this table.
(d)
Reflects TCC’s interest in STP.
(e)
CSPCo owns generating units in common with CG&E and DP&L. Its ownership interest of 1,330 MW is reflected in this table.
(f)
The scrubber facilities at the General James M. Gavin Plant are leased. OPCo may terminate the lease as early as 2010.
(g)
See Item 1 - Utility Operations - Electric Generation - Deactivation and Disposition of Generation Facilities for a discussion of TCC’s planned disposition of all its generation facilities.
(h) TNC’s gas fired generation is deactivated.
In addition to the generating facilities described above, AEP has ownership interests in other electrical generating facilities, both foreign and domestic. Information concerning these facilities at December 31, 2004 is listed below.
(1)
As defined under PUHCA
(2)
As defined under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Acquisitions, Dispositions, Discontinued Operations, Impairments, Assets Held for Sale and Assets Held and Used, included in the 2004 Annual Reports, for a discussion of AEP’s planned use and/or disposition of independent power producer and foreign generation assets.
COOK NUCLEAR PLANT AND STP
The following table provides operating information relating to the Cook Plant and STP.
(a)
Reflects total plant. TCC has an ownership interest in STP of approximately 25.2%. TCC has entered into an agreement to sell this interest and the sale is expected to be completed in 2005.
(b)
AEP has filed to extend the licenses at the Cook Plant.
(c)
The capacity factors for both units of the Cook Plant were reduced in 2003 due to an unplanned maintenance outage to implement upgrades to the traveling water screens system following an alewife fish intrusion. The capacity factors for the STP units were reduced due to an unplanned outage for BMI repairs on Unit 1 and an unplanned outage for turbine repairs on Unit 2.
(d)
The capacity factor for both units of the Cook Plant was significantly reduced in 2001 due to an unplanned dual maintenance outage in September 2001 to implement design changes that improved the performance of the essential service water system.
(e)
Cook Plant 2004 Net Capacity Factor values reflect Nominal Net Electrical Rating in Kilowatts of 1,036,000 (Unit 1) and 1,107,000 (Unit 2). However, Cook Plant 2003 and earlier Net Capacity Factor values reflect previous Nominal Net Electrical Rating in Kilowatts of 1,020,000 (Unit 1) and 1,090,000 (Unit 2).
Costs associated with the operation (excluding fuel), maintenance and retirement of nuclear plants continue to be more significant and less predictable than costs associated with other sources of generation, in large part due to changing regulatory requirements and safety standards, availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities and experience gained in the operation of nuclear facilities. I&M and TCC may also incur costs and experience reduced output at Cook Plant and STP, respectively, because of the design criteria prevailing at the time of construction and the age of the plant’s systems and equipment. Nuclear industry-wide and Cook Plant and STP initiatives have contributed to slowing the growth of operating and maintenance costs at these plants. However, the ability of I&M and TCC to obtain adequate and timely recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant and STP, respectively, including replacement power, any unamortized investment at the end of the useful life of the Cook Plant and STP (whether scheduled or premature), the carrying costs of that investment and retirement costs, is not assured. See Item 1 - Utility Operations - Electric Generation - Planned Deactivation and Planned Disposition of Generation Facilities for a discussion of TCC’s planned disposition of its interest in STP.
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES
The following table sets forth the total overhead circuit miles of transmission and distribution lines of the AEP System and its operating companies and that portion of the total representing 765 kV lines:
(a)
Includes 766 miles of 345 kV jointly owned lines.
(b)
Includes 73 miles of transmission lines not identified with an operating company.
TITLES
The AEP System’s generating facilities are generally located on lands owned in fee simple. The greater portion of the transmission and distribution lines of the System has been constructed over lands of private owners pursuant to easements or along public highways and streets pursuant to appropriate statutory authority. The rights of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries in the realty on which their facilities are located are considered adequate for use in the conduct of their business. Minor defects and irregularities customarily found in title to properties of like size and character may exist, but such defects and irregularities do not materially impair the use of the properties affected thereby. AEP’s public utility subsidiaries generally have the right of eminent domain which permits them, if necessary, to acquire, perfect or secure titles to or easements on privately held lands used or to be used in their utility operations. Recent legislation in Ohio and Virginia has restricted the right of eminent domain previously granted for power generation purposes.
Substantially all the fixed physical properties and franchises of TNC, APCo, PSO, and SWEPCo, except for limited exceptions, are subject to the lien of the mortgage and deed of trust securing the first mortgage bonds of each such company.
SYSTEM TRANSMISSION LINES AND FACILITY SITING
Laws in the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Texas, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia require prior approval of sites of generating facilities and/or routes of high-voltage transmission lines. We have experienced delays and additional costs in constructing facilities as a result of proceedings conducted pursuant to such statutes, and in proceedings in which our operating companies have sought to acquire rights-of-way through condemnation. These proceedings may result in additional delays and costs in future years.
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
GENERAL
The AEP System, with input from its state utility commissions, continuously assesses the adequacy of its generation, transmission, distribution and other facilities to plan and provide for the reliable supply of electric power and energy to its customers. In this assessment process, assumptions are continually being reviewed as new information becomes available, and assessments and plans are modified, as appropriate. Thus, System reinforcement plans are subject to change, particularly with the restructuring of the electric utility industry. AEP forecasts $2.7 billion of construction expenditures for 2005. Estimated construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, and the ability to access capital.
PROPOSED TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
APCo is proceeding with its plan to build the Jacksons Ferry-Wyoming 765,000-volt transmission line. The WVPSC and the VSCC have issued certificates authorizing construction and operation of the line. On December 31, 2002, the U.S. Forest Service issued a final environmental impact statement and record of decision to allow the use of federal lands in the Jefferson National Forest for construction of a portion of the line. On May 11, 2004, the decision of the Forest Service was challenged by the Sierra Club in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia. APCo has intervened in that litigation. Construction of the line is underway and the project is scheduled to be completed by June 2006.
PROPOSED GENERATION FACILITY
In conjunction with an environmental impact study issued in August 2004, in the third quarter of 2004 we announced plans to construct a synthetic-gas-fired plant or plants of approximately 1,000 MW of capacity in the next five to six years utilizing integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) technology. We estimate that this new plant or plants will cost in the range of $1.7 billion. We have not determined a location for the plant or plants, but it or they will be in one of our eastern states, because of ready access to coal. We are currently performing site analysis and evaluation and at the same time working with state regulators and legislators to establish a framework for expedient recovery of this significant investment in new clean coal technology before final site selection. We have filed with PJM for transmission analysis of sites in Ohio, West Virginia and Kentucky.
Our significant planned environmental investments in emission control installations at existing coal-fired plants and our commitment to IGCC technology reinforce our belief that coal will be a lower-emission domestic energy source of the future and further signals our commitment to investing in clean, environmentally safe technology. For additional information regarding anticipated environmental expenditures, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations under the heading entitled The Current Air Quality Regulatory Framework.
CONSTRUCTION EXPENDITURES
The following table shows construction expenditures (including environmental expenditures) during 2002, 2003 and 2004 and current estimates of 2005 construction expenditures, in each case including AFUDC, but excluding assets acquired under leases.
(a)
Includes expenditures of other subsidiaries not shown. Amounts in 2002 and 2003 include construction expenditures related to entities classified in 2004 as discontinued operations. These amounts were $186,500,000 and $24,900,000, respectively. The figures reflect construction expenditures, not investments in subsidiary companies.
The System construction program is reviewed continuously and is revised from time to time in response to changes in estimates of customer demand, business and economic conditions, the cost and availability of capital, environmental requirements and other factors. Changes in construction schedules and costs, and in estimates and projections of needs for additional facilities, as well as variations from currently anticipated levels of net earnings, Federal income and other taxes, and other factors affecting cash requirements, may increase or decrease the estimated capital requirements for the System’s construction program.
See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Commitments and Contingencies, incorporated by reference in Item 8, for further information with respect to the construction plans of AEP and its operating subsidiaries for the next year.
POTENTIAL UNINSURED LOSSES
Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to meet potential losses and liabilities, including liabilities relating to damage to the Cook Plant or STP and costs of replacement power in the event of a nuclear incident at the Cook Plant or STP. Unless allowed to be recovered through rates, future losses or liabilities which are not completely insured could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and the financial condition of AEP, I&M, TCC and other AEP System companies. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Commitments and Contingencies, incorporated by reference in Item 8, for information with respect to nuclear incident liability insurance.
ITEM 3.