Item 2 of this Report. At December 31, 2000, Flagler's operating properties were 93.0 percent occupied. Flagler's buildings are primarily Class "A" office space and high-quality commercial/industrial facilities constructed after 1987.
At December 31, 2000, Flagler had 408,000-sq. ft. in lease-up, 532,000-sq. ft. under construction, and 883,000-sq. ft. in pre-development, for a total of 1.8 million sq. ft., primarily located in the Jacksonville, Orlando and Miami areas. At the pre-development phase, Flagler has obtained the necessary permits and invested in engineering, architectural planning and design.
Flagler also owns approximately 14,000 acres of undeveloped land in inventory for potential future commercial and industrial development, primarily situated adjacent to FECR's rights-of-way along the eastern coast of Florida. Significant other holdings are in urban or suburban locations offering opportunities for development of business parks, office buildings, residential, warehouse and industrial facilities. The Company believes these holdings will provide significant growth opportunities.
PROJECTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
The primary focus of Flagler's development activities has been the Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Jacksonville
and Orlando areas, all of which are highly active with local, regional and national development companies competing for land and tenants. The projects under development include:
- GRAN PARK AT SOUTHPARK - ORLANDO, FL: Located at the intersection of John Young Parkway and Beeline Expressway. Three buildings, totaling 429,000-sq. ft., have been completed. At December 31, 2000, three buildings, totaling 408,000-sq. ft., were under development, with completions scheduled for mid-2000. The park has entitlements for an additional 153,000-sq. ft. of office and call center space.
In 1999, based on the success of SouthPark, Flagler acquired an additional 90 acres adjacent to the existing park. The land has entitlements for 1.8 million sq. ft. of office space and 9 acres of retail uses.
- BEACON STATION AT GRAN PARK - MIAMI, FL: Located northwest of Miami International Airport. Twenty-five buildings, totaling 2.5 million sq. ft., have been completed, including a 101,000-sq. ft. operations center for Union Planters Bank delivered in 2000. At December 31, 2000, a 300,000-sq. ft. industrial project for Caterpillar Logistics was under construction, with completion scheduled for late 2001. The park has entitlements for an additional 5.0 million sq. ft. of office, industrial and commercial space. Site preparation is currently underway for four industrial projects totaling 744,000-sq. ft. Flagler has also developed 540,000-sq. ft. of industrial space at Beacon Station in a 50/50 joint venture with Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation.
Flagler owns 540 acres adjacent to this park for future development.
- BEACON POINTE AT WESTON - WESTON, FL: Located in west Broward County at I-75 in Weston. In 1998, Flagler purchased 30 acres with entitlements for 375,000-sq. ft. of office space. Flagler intends to develop the project in a 50/50 joint venture with Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation. The first 100,000-sq. ft. office building was completed in 1999. The second 100,000-sq. ft. office building is currently under construction, with site preparation underway for the third 100,000-sq. ft. office building.
- GRAN PARK AT DEERWOOD - JACKSONVILLE, FL: Located in the most rapidly expanding area of Jacksonville. Five office buildings, totaling 653,000-sq. ft., have been completed. At December 31, 2000, one building, totaling 135,000-sq. ft., is under development, with completion scheduled for mid-2001. The park has entitlements for an additional 270,000-sq. ft. of office space.
The following is a summary of the Company's development activity as of December 31, 2000:
In addition, the rapidly growing area of E-Commerce has created a demand for "high throughput" distribution buildings located near airports and seaports. This major evolution in distribution patterns is expected to have a positive impact on the Company's industrial land holdings, particularly those around the Miami International Airport. Management is currently formulating a strategy to maximize the value of its
holdings in view of these significant trends.
FECR owns approximately 1,200 acres of ancillary properties within the state of Florida. The Company continues to evaluate these holdings and, when appropriate, engages in activities (sales, development, etc.) that will extract/create value for the Company.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EPIK, a wholly owned subsidiary of FECI, is a new, rapidly growing provider of wholesale telecommunications private line services (bandwidth, wave services, IP, collocation and dark fiber) in the Southeast. Established in May 1999, EPIK has created a high-capacity fiber optic network along a densely populated corridor reaching 12 metropolitan areas within the Southeast that comprise nearly 75.0 percent of the region's population. EPIK's fiber runs along FECR's right-of-way and in conduits on other routes acquired through asset swaps. EPIK is also expanding its network nationally and is rapidly deploying next generation technologies that will meet the escalating demand for telecommunications bandwidth.
When completed, EPIK's high-count fiber and OC-192 Southeast backbone from Atlanta to Miami will include 1,850 inter-city route miles comprising 255,000 fiber-strand miles. Through swap transactions completed as of December 31, 2000, 70,000 of the 255,000 fiber-strand miles had been used/committed to develop a long-haul national fiber footprint that covered over 10,000 route miles. This national fiber footprint will continue to expand through additional swap transactions, and will thus utilize more of the 255,000 fiber-strand miles in the Southeast. To complement its long-haul inter-city network, EPIK is constructing 394 route miles (12,000 fiber miles) of metropolitan networks in the Southeast with the development of routes in the greater Miami metropolitan area, Orlando, Jacksonville, Tampa and Atlanta. At December 31, 2000, 11,000 fiber miles were completed on the metro networks.
The Southeast backbone reaches 12 key markets in the Southeast that comprise nearly 75.0 percent of the region's population. At December 31, 2000, 1,500 route miles (180,000 fiber miles) were installed and active on the Southeast backbone with only the Jacksonville to Atlanta segment remaining under construction. EPIK's Southeast network is fully redundant, using both geodiverse fiber paths and SONET architecture to ensure high levels of reliability. EPIK's 12 long-haul points of presence (POPs) are equipped with Nortel Networks(TM) Optera(TM) OC-192 dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) equipment to provide the highest levels of capacity and rapid provisioning. The metropolitan networks will contain over 40 additional POPs, utilizing a combination of optical equipment from ONI, Cisco and Nortel. At December 31, 2000, EPIK had also begun deployment of Juniper Networks OC-192 routers to enable the provisioning of Internet Protocol services under the enLIGHTened IP service mark.
EPIK is a "carriers' carrier" providing wholesale bandwidth in the form of private line and wave services, Internet Protocol (IP) connectivity, collocation and dark fiber to competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs), Internet service providers (ISPs), long-distance companies (IXCs), wireless and international carriers.
Wholesale Services include:
Bandwidth - Private Line
- Transport speeds from DS-3 to OC-192 (the highest commercially available service speed) - Accessible, centrally-located points of presence in major metropolitan areas - 15-day on-net provisioning - 4-hour mean time to repair - Around-the-clock network operations center (NOC) - Highly reliable geographically diverse SONET ring architecture
Bandwidth - Wave Services
EPIK offers wave-based, unprotected, capacity service delivered at OC-48 or OC-192 speeds. Leased-line wave services are targeted at data-centric service providers (e.g., ISPs) desiring unprotected connectivity.
- Reduced time and expense of deploying, managing and maintaining equipment - Easily provision and expand service - Transparent to customers' network management system - Seamless integration of customers' equipment into existing network
Enlightened IP Services
Eliminating unnecessary layers of overhead, EPIK provides faster, more efficient core network capabilities.
- 10 GBPS backbone using best-in-class equipment - Connectivity using Fast Ethernet (100Mbps), Gigabit Ethernet (1000 Mbps) and DS-3 to OC-192 - Aggressive SLAs - Around-the-clock network operations center (NOC) - Product Options: Dedicated Internet Access and IP Transit Services
Collocation
EPIK leases carrier grade collocation space in its points of presence (POP) and optical amplifier (OPAMP) locations to dark fiber and bandwidth customers.
- Rack and cage space - Carrier class facilities - Versatile AC and DC power options tailored to specific equipment needs - 24 x 7 x 365 network operations center (NOC)
Dark Fiber
- EPIK leases and sells dark fiber on its network
The telecommunications segment of FECI also includes revenue from long-term right-of-way leases to other telecommunications carriers.
TRUCKING
FECI also owns 100.0 percent of the stock of Florida Express Carriers, Inc. (FLX), formerly International Transit, Inc. (ITI). FLX is a common and contract motor carrier operating throughout the U.S., with a concentration in the Southeast. FLX offers truckload over-the-road service, as well as intermodal drayage. FLX also offers transportation logistic services and maintains a brokerage operation. FLX generates revenues from trucking, brokerage and contract logistic services. Ownership of FLX enables the Company to provide coordinated motor/rail intermodal services with FECR to and from southeastern points.
During the third quarter, FLX restructured its operations. This restructuring accomplished the relocation of its corporate headquarters from Cincinnati, Ohio to Jacksonville, Florida, and consolidated certain functions (e.g., dispatching, billing, etc.) in the Jacksonville, Florida headquarters. Also, the restructuring realigned FLX's operations to a more Southeastern focused carrier. These accomplishments more closely align the management team and trucking operations with FECR, allowing FECR and FLX to provide an array of transportation alternatives to its freight customers.
During 2000 and 1999, FLX interlined 15,731 and 13,902 intermodal units (trailers and containers), respectively, with FECR's intermodal facility at Jacksonville.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FECI'S SEGMENTS
The Company had total segment operating revenues of $281.8 million and an operating profit of $35.2 million in 2000. The Company's total railroad operating revenues were $164.8 million; real estate revenues were $75.0 million; telecommunications revenues were $10.4 million; and trucking revenues were $31.6 million. Segment operating profit (loss) for the railroad was $43.7 million; $21.0 million for the real estate business; ($14.2 million) for the telecommunications segment; and ($8.2 million) for trucking (see Note 9, Segment Information, of the Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data set forth in Part II, Item 8, of this Report on Form 10-K).
SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS
All raw materials FECR, Flagler, EPIK and FLX use, including fuel, track materials and building and network construction materials, are available in adequate supply from multiple sources.
SEASONALITY
FECR's rail traffic is relatively stable throughout the year with heavier traffic ordinarily occurring during the first and last quarters of the year. The Company's real estate, telecommunications and trucking businesses are not generally seasonal.
WORKING CAPITAL
At December 31, 2000, the Company's current liabilities exceeded current assets by $16.5 million. The Company maintains a revolving credit agreement (see Note 16 of the financial statements) with a borrowing capacity of $200.0 million. At December 31, 2000, $112.0 million was available on this facility to meet current obligations of the Company. On March 22, 2001, the revolving credit agreement was restructured into a secured facility with a borrowing capacity of $375.0 million. The December 31, 2000 current liabilities reflect approximately $44.0 million of accounts payable related to the build-out of EPIK's southeastern network.
CUSTOMERS
RAILWAY
One customer generated about 18.0 percent of the Company's rail revenues in 2000. The Company's business could be adversely affected if its large customers suffered significant reductions in their businesses, or reduced shipments of commodities transported by FECR.
REAL ESTATE
The Company is not dependent on any significant customer in the real estate segment. Flagler's largest commercial tenant occupied approximately 4.0 percent of leased space in 2000.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
As a wholesale provider of communication services, EPIK targets other telecommunications carriers as its customers. In particular, EPIK's sales and marketing efforts are directed towards IXCs, CLECs, ISPs, and wireless communications companies such as cellular and PCS providers. EPIK has a limited number of customers at this time, given its limited history.
During the year 2000, EPIK signed collocation agreements with combined contract values of over $130 million and dark fiber, capacity and IP Service agreements with combined contract values of over $35 million. As of December 31, 2000, one customer represented 47.0 percent of the $131.2 million of collocation revenue backlog.
TRUCKING
The trucking operation is not dependent on any significant customer. No customer generates revenues, which exceeds 10.0 percent of the trucking operation's revenues. The top twenty-five shippers of the trucking operation's customer base accounts for approximately 70.0 percent of its revenues.
COMPETITION
RAILWAY
Although the Company's railroad is typically the only rail carrier directly serving its customers, the Company's railroad competes directly with other railroads that could potentially deliver freight to their markets and customers via different routes and use of multiple modes of transportation. FECR's primary rail competition is CSXT. FECR also competes directly with other modes of transportation, including motor carriers and, to a lesser extent, ships and barges. Competition is based primarily upon the rate charged and the transit time required, as well as the quality and reliability of the service provided. Any improvement in the cost or quality of these alternate modes of transportation could increase competition from these other modes of transportation and adversely affect the Company's business.
There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and a specific transportation company with which to do business. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements, which minimize problems at successive production stages, even for raw materials,
semi-finished goods and work-in-process.
Service disruptions and changes in services offered by NS and CSXT as a result of their acquisition and division of Conrail continue to adversely affect FECR's intermodal business.
REAL ESTATE
The real estate industry is generally characterized by significant competition. The Company plans to continue to expand through office and industrial developments in Florida where the acquisition and/or development of property would, in the opinion of management, result in a favorable risk-adjusted return on investment. There are a number of office and industrial developers and real estate companies that compete with the Company in seeking properties for acquisition, resources for development and prospective tenants. Competition from other real estate developments may adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and retain tenants, rental rates the Company can achieve, and the expenses of operation. The Company may compete with entities that have greater financial and other resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that the existence of such competition could not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations and cash flow.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
The wholesale carriers' carrier business is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. Competition is primarily on the basis of availability, price and customer service. EPIK competes primarily on the basis of location of its network, rapid customer provisioning, transmission quality and reliability, highly responsive customer service and price. EPIK faces substantial competition from IXCs, other private wholesale carriers such as affiliates of energy utilities and railroads, Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs) and CLECs. In addition to these entities, potential competitors capable of offering services similar to those offered by EPIK include microwave carriers, satellite carriers, wireless telephone system operators, and end-users with private communications networks. Many of EPIK's existing competitors are large, established companies with substantially greater financial resources. Major competitors include, but are not limited to, Level 3, Qwest, Williams, 360Networks, BellSouth, MCI, Worldcom and AT&T. Additionally, EPIK expects that competition will increase in the future as additional providers of fiber optic networks enter or expand in the market.
TRUCKING
The same competitive factors, as noted in Railway above, substantially affect the Company's trucking operations as well.
REGULATION
RAILWAY
FECR is subject to regulation by the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the U.S. Department of Transportation, which succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The U.S. Department of Transportation, through the Federal Railroad Administration, regulates the safety of railroad operations, including certain track and mechanical equipment standards and certain human factor issues.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980 (Staggers Act), has continued under the STB, and additional rail business could be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., piggyback) business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities, such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 95.0 percent of FECR's freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
Due, in part, to industry consolidation and certain service issues, efforts were made in 2000 to re-subject the rail industry to federal economic regulation. This pressure could continue during 2001. The Staggers
Act encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, the nation's rail carriers can be expected to vigorously oppose these ongoing efforts to re-impose such economic regulation.
RAILWAY AND TRUCKING
The Company's transportation operations, both rail and trucking, are also subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, including the federal Clean Air Act (CERCLA), and various other environmental laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs can result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, natural resource damage claims, potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. In addition, the Company's present and historic ownership and operation of real property, including rail yards, in connection with its transportation operations involve the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that may have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment. The Company may also be liable for the costs of cleaning up a site at which it has disposed (intentionally or unintentionally of hazardous substances by virtue of, for example, an accident, derailment or leak), or to which it has transported hazardous substances it generated, such as waste oil.
The Company is currently involved in various remediations of properties relating to its transportation operations. In addition, FECR, along with many other companies, has been named a potentially responsible party in proceedings under Federal statutes for the clean up of designated Superfund sites (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings). Based on information presently available, the Company does not believe that the costs of addressing any known environmental issues relating to its transportation operations will be material. However, the future cost of complying with environmental laws and containing or remediating contamination cannot be predicted with any certainty, and there can be no assurances that such liabilities or costs would not have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future.
REAL ESTATE
Development of real property in Florida entails an extensive approval process involving overlapping regulatory jurisdictions. Real estate projects must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (Growth Management Act). In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact (DRI) application. Compliance with the Growth Management Act and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect the Company's real estate development activities.
The Growth Management Act requires counties and cities to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions. After a local government adopts its comprehensive plan, all development orders and development permits that it issues must be consistent with the plan. Each such plan must address such topics as future land use, capital improvements, traffic circulation, sanitation, sewerage, potable water, drainage and solid wastes. The local government's comprehensive plans must also establish "levels of service" with respect to certain specified public facilities and services to residents. Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if facilities and services are not operating at established levels of service, or if the projects for which permits are requested will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government's comprehensive plan. If the proposed development would reduce the established level of services below the level set by the plan, the development order will require that at the outset of the project, the developer either sufficiently improve the services to meet the required level, or provide financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses.
The Growth Management Act is, in some instances, significantly affecting the ability of developers to obtain local government approval in Florida. In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth. As a result, substandard facilities and services are delaying or preventing the issuance of permits. The Growth Management Act could adversely affect the ability of Florida developers, including Flagler, to develop real estate projects.
Continued growth and development of properties in Florida have prompted efforts to pass legislation to curtail or more intensely regulate such development and to amend the Growth Management Act.
The DRI review process includes an evaluation of the project's impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous federal, state and local governmental, zoning and community development agencies and authorities. Local government approval of any DRI is subject to appeal to the Governor and Cabinet by the Florida Department of Community Affairs, and adverse decisions by the Governor or Cabinet are subject to judicial appeal.
In addition, a substantial portion of the developable property in Florida, including certain of the Company's property, is raw land located in areas where its development may affect the natural habitats of various endangered or protected wildlife species or in sensitive environmental areas such as wetlands and coastal areas, which are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local regulation. Accordingly, federal, state and local wildlife protection, zoning and land use restrictions, as well as community development requirements, may become increasingly restrictive and, as a result, significant limitations may be imposed on the Company's ability to develop its real estate holdings in accordance with their most profitable uses.
The Company's ownership and development of real estate are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, the provisions and enforcement of which may become more stringent in the future. Pursuant to those laws, the owner or operator of real estate may be required to perform remediation regardless of whether it caused the contamination. The sale or development of properties may also be restricted due to environmental concerns, the protection of endangered species, or the protection of wetlands. In addition, violations of various statutory and regulatory programs can result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, natural resource damages, potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. The Company is not presently aware of any material contamination, or any material adverse environmental development issues relating to its real estate operations. However, there can be no assurance that environmental issues will not arise in the future relating to the real estate operations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EPIK does not believe that its telecommunications offerings are currently subject to federal or state regulation. Nonetheless, the telecommunications industry is highly regulated by federal, state, and local authorities, judicial and legislative actions may increase regulatory requirements, and the scope of services subject to regulation is not clearly defined and is subject to change. EPIK, therefore, cannot forecast whether it will be subject to regulation in the future and can make no assurance that future regulatory, judicial, or legislative action will not have a material adverse effect on EPIK.
Federal regulation. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulates interstate telecommunications services. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, defines "telecommunications service" to mean the "offering of telecommunications for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used." The FCC has found that telecommunications services include only those services that are offered on a "common carrier" basis - that is, services that are provided pursuant to standard rates, terms and conditions to a broad customer base. In contrast, services that are offered on a "private carrier" basis are not subject to regulation as telecommunications services. EPIK believes that it acts as a private carrier because it provides service to a limited class of customers (e.g., other carriers) on the basis of individually negotiated terms and conditions and long-term service agreements. Nonetheless, EPIK has filed an FCC tariff containing rates, terms and conditions for certain services that EPIK may choose to offer on a common carrier basis in the future.
Although private carriers are generally unregulated, private carriers that serve end-user customers are required to contribute to the federal universal service fund. Accordingly, if EPIK offers services only to carriers, it would not have to contribute to the federal universal service fund. However, to the extent that EPIK serves non-carriers (e.g., ISPs), even as a private carrier, it will have to contribute a percentage of its end-user, interstate revenues to that fund.
If EPIK is found to be providing interstate telecommunications services (that is, to be acting as a common carrier), then several additional regulatory requirements could apply:
- - EPIK would not require any prior FCC authorization to provide domestic, interstate service. It would, however, require prior FCC authorization to offer international services.
- - EPIK would have to comply with various reporting requirements.
- - EPIK would be required to contribute to other federal funds, including funds to support the provision of telecommunications relay services to individuals with hearing disabilities and the administration of telephone numbering resources.
- - EPIK would be under general obligations to: (1) provide service upon reasonable request, (2) provide service at just, reasonable and non-discriminatory rates, terms and conditions, (3) interconnect directly or indirectly with the networks of other carriers, (4) assure that its services are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, (5) assure that its network complies with the requirements of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, (6) limit its use of customer proprietary network information to provisioning of the services in connection with which that information was obtained, and (7) be subject to the FCC's complaint process.
Imposition of some or all of these requirements could materially increase EPIK's costs of doing business and limit its pricing flexibility, and its ability to respond promptly to customer demands. In addition, if some of EPIK's competitors remain unregulated, EPIK could be at a material competitive disadvantage.
State regulation. State public utility commissions (PUCs) regulate intrastate telecommunications services. EPIK does not believe it is subject to significant state PUC regulation because it acts as a private carrier. For example, Florida recognizes the private carrier concept. Some other states, however, may not recognize the private carrier concept or may nonetheless seek to subject EPIK to regulation. State regulation of intrastate telecommunications services is similar to FCC regulation of interstate telecommunications services, although the states vary considerably in the nature and extent of regulation imposed on regulated entities. For instance, while most states require service providers to obtain formal prior authorization before initiating service, some do not. Similarly, while most states require service providers to file tariffs, some do not. States also may impose universal service contribution requirements and other rules intended to protect public safety and welfare, ensure the continued quality of communications services, and safeguard the rights of consumers. The Company cannot predict whether application of state regulation of EPIK's services would have a material adverse effect.
Local regulation. Local governments exercise legal authority that may impact EPIK's business. As an example, local governments typically have the ability to license public rights-of-way, subject to the limitation that they may not prohibit the provision of telecommunications services. Regulation of the use of public rights-of-way may affect the timing in which EPIK is able to provide service and the costs of doing so.
TRUCKING
The Company's trucking operation is regulated by the United States Department of Transportation, including the Federal Highway Administration. This regulatory authority exercises broad powers, generally governing activities such as authorizations to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions.
RISKS
RAILWAY AND TRUCKING
Market Risks. FECR's freight traffic is generally affected by overall economic conditions, especially those in the state of Florida. Also, the level of state and federal highway and other public projects can affect the amount of aggregate loadings FECR's customers request. There can be no assurance that the overall economy or that of Florida's will continue to experience higher than average national growth or rebound quickly from any slowdowns.
Fuel Price Risks. FECR's operations require significant amounts of diesel fuel. Prices of diesel fuel can
vary greatly. Generally, the increases in fuel price are passed along to customers through a "fuel surcharge." However, there are no assurances that these surcharges will cover the entire fuel price increase for a given period, or that competitive market conditions will effectively allow freight providers the ability to pass along this cost.
Interchange Carrier Risks. Approximately 46.0 percent of FECR's traffic is interchanged from CSXT or NS. The ability of these carriers to market and service southbound traffic into the Florida market will affect the amount of traffic FECR moves.
REAL ESTATE
Market Risks. There can be no assurance that the U.S. economy, in general, or the economy of the Southeast in particular, will continue to experience positive growth rates or that the United States, in general, or the Southeast in particular, will not be affected by a recession in the future. Certain significant expenditures associated with the development, management and servicing of real estate (such as real estate taxes, maintenance costs and debt payments, if any) would generally not be reduced if an economic downturn caused a reduction in revenues from the Company's properties.
Development Risks. The Company's real estate development activities require significant capital expenditures. The Company will be required to obtain funds for its capital expenditures and operating activities through cash flow from operations, property sales or financings. There can be no assurances that funds available from cash flow, property sales and financings will be sufficient to fund the Company's required or desired capital expenditures for development. If the Company were unable to obtain sufficient funds, it might have to defer or otherwise limit certain development activities. Further, any new development, or any rehabilitation of older projects can require compliance with new building codes and other regulations. The Company cannot estimate the cost of complying with such codes and regulations, and such costs can make a new project, or some otherwise desirable uses of an existing project uneconomic.
Joint Venture Risks. The Company has entered into certain joint venture relationships and may initiate future joint venture projects as part of its overall development strategy. A joint venture may involve special risks associated with the possibility that (i) the venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the Company, (ii) the venture partner may take actions contrary to the instructions or requests of the Company, or contrary to the Company's policies or objectives with respect to its real estate investments, or (iii) the venture partner could experience financial difficulties. Actions by the Company's venture partners may have the result of subjecting property owned by the joint venture to liabilities in excess of those contemplated by the terms of the joint venture agreement or have other adverse consequences. In addition, the Company's joint venture partners may dedicate time and resources to existing commitments and responsibilities.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Technological risks. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. For example, recent technological advances permit substantial increases in transmission capacity of both new and existing fiber. The introduction of new products and services, or the emergence of new technologies may reduce the cost, or increase the supply of certain services similar to those provided by EPIK, impairing the competitiveness of EPIK's offerings. EPIK cannot predict which of many possible future products and service offerings will be crucial to maintain its competitive position, or what expenditures will be required to develop profitably and to provide such products and services.
Competition-related risks. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. EPIK faces substantial competition from IXCs, other private wholesale carriers such as affiliates of energy utilities and railroads, and CLECs. In addition to these entities, potential competitors capable of offering services similar to those offered by EPIK include microwave carriers, satellite carriers, wireless telephone system operators, and end-users with private communications networks. In the future, EPIK may be subject to more intense competition due to the development of new technologies, an increased supply of domestic and international transmission capacity, and consolidation among and between local and long distance carriers. In addition, as the regional Bell operating companies gain authority to enter into long distance service markets, they may rapidly be able to offer competitive services over region-wide fiber optic networks that already are in
place.
Regulatory risks. Regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly. Existing and future federal, state, and local governmental regulations will greatly influence the viability of EPIK. Undesirable regulatory changes could adversely affect EPIK's business, financial condition, competitiveness and results of operations. For example, while EPIK does not believe that it is subject to federal or state regulation as a common carrier, EPIK cannot predict the future regulatory status of its business. The FCC has recognized a class of private, non-common carriers whose practice it is to make individualized decisions on what terms and with whom to deal, and EPIK believes it falls into this class. These carriers may be subject to the FCC's jurisdiction but are not currently extensively regulated. In addition, some states may not recognize the private carrier concept and, for this or other reasons, may seek to regulate EPIK's intrastate services. If EPIK becomes subject to the FCC's or state PUC's jurisdiction, it will be required to comply with a number of regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, rate regulation, prior authorization requirements, reporting requirements and special payments. Additionally, if EPIK offers services to non-carriers, it will have to contribute to the federal universal service fund. Compliance with these regulatory requirements may impose substantial administrative burdens on EPIK. Furthermore, CLECs, ILECs, and IXCs (which may be both customers and competitors of EPIK) are subject to various federal and state telecommunications laws and regulations. Changes in those laws and policies may affect EPIK's business by virtue of the interrelationships between EPIK and these regulated telecommunications companies. It is difficult for EPIK to forecast how these changes will affect EPIK.
EMPLOYEES
FECI employed 16 people; FECR employed 787; EPIK employed 180, and FLX employed 143 as of December 31, 2000. Approximately 612 of FECR's employees are represented by the following labor unions: United Transportation Union (UTU) (train and engine service employees), Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees (BMWE) (track maintenance and structures) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) (seven crafts, including agents and clerical, carmen, maintenance of equipment foremen, roadway shop, signals and communications, train dispatchers, boilermakers, electricians, machinists, sheetmetal workers and shop laborers). The Company has recently completed negotiations regarding changes to labor agreements with all organizations. The Company considers its working relationship with its unions to be satisfactory.
As of December 31, 2000, Flagler had 22 employees, including a Chief Operating Officer and other key management members. During 2001, certain additional positions within Flagler will be filled to facilitate the transition of the real estate operation.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company's material physical properties at December 31, 2000 are listed below and are grouped by industry segment. All properties shown are owned in fee simple, except where otherwise indicated.
RAILWAY
FECR owns three connected four-story buildings in St. Augustine, Florida, which are used by FECI and FECR as corporate headquarters. FECR also owns, in fee simple, a railroad right-of-way, generally 100 feet wide, along the East Coast of Florida extending for 351 miles used for its railroad operations and telecommunications facilities. FECR also owns and operates approximately 276 miles of branch, switching and other secondary track, and 159 miles of yard track, various rail car marshalling yards, trailer/container and automobile loading and unloading facilities, signaling system facilities and a number of operating offices, shops and service house buildings.
On March 2, 1998, FECR entered into a Trackage Agreement with SCFE providing for, among other things, the exclusive operation and maintenance of 56 miles of branch mainline.
Tracks, their bridges and the fixed property and signal improvements supporting the transportation effort are maintained to a level equaling the needs of service. The mainline and its passing tracks are, in general, constructed of 132-pound per yard continuous welded rail supported on concrete crossties. These facilities provide a reliable infrastructure for the conduct of a transportation service suited to the business demands
of our customers, to include unrestricted movement of double-stacked containers, tri-level automobiles and heavier axle rail cars.
The branch mainlines, way switching and yard tracks are, for the most part, of 115-pound per yard materials supported by wood ties. These tracks and certain mainline yard tracks are of a lesser weight of rail supported on wood ties and, although in suitable condition, are to be improved by the installation of heavier materials. Programs designed to address this matter may be expected to extend over several future years.
FECR owns 75 diesel electric locomotives; 2,533 freight cars; 1,077 trailers for highway revenue service; numerous pieces of rail-mounted and non-rail-mounted work equipment, and numerous automobiles used in maintenance and transportation operations. All equipment owned is in good physical condition.
The Railway also owns lands outside of the right-of-way. These holdings include certain properties in downtown Miami and large rail yards in Jacksonville, Fort Pierce and Miami.
REAL ESTATE
At year-end 2000, Flagler's commercial and industrial portfolio included 51 buildings aggregating 5.3 million rentable sq. ft. Flagler's income-producing properties are detailed below:
FLAGLER'S INCOME-PRODUCING PROJECTS (at December 31, 2000)
Note: An additional 638,000-sq. ft. of rentable office and industrial product is owned in 50/50 partnerships with Duke-Weeks. These properties are located in Weston, Florida and Miami, Florida.
The Company periodically reviews its inventory of income-producing commercial and industrial properties and undeveloped properties to determine how best to maximize their value, including sales. The Company continues to invest in the development of additional leasable commercial and industrial space, and currently has 408,000-sq. ft. in lease-up, 532,000-sq. ft. under construction, and 883,000-sq. ft. in the pre-
development stage, (see Part I, Item 1, Business, in this Report on Form 10-K).
Flagler's land portfolio includes the following major land holdings:
BALL TRACT
A 2,150-acre tract located in northern St. Johns County along the growing US 1 corridor between Jacksonville and St. Augustine. The property fronts on US 1 to the west, the Intracoastal Waterway to the east, and lies between two large announced mixed-use residential and commercial communities not yet under development. Flagler expects this property to be developed also as a master planned community incorporating both residential and commercial uses, but must first seek and obtain various land use approvals from state, regional and local governmental entities.
LEMBERG NORTH
A 580-acre tract located in northern St. Johns County along the growing US 1 corridor between Jacksonville and St. Augustine. The property fronts along the western boundary of FECR's mainline which is immediately adjacent to US 1. Flagler expects to develop the property as a rail-oriented industrial park, but must first seek and obtain various approvals from state, regional and local governmental entities.
LEMBERG SOUTH
A 520-acre tract located in northern St. Johns County just west of the growing US 1 corridor between Jacksonville and St. Augustine. Flagler expects to seek and obtain land use and development rights for the development of a planned residential community on the property.
MILLER SHOP
A 327-acre tract, partially owned by Flagler and FECR (Flagler, 70 acres; FECR, 257 acres), located in St. Johns County along US 1 at the northern end of the city of St. Augustine. The property fronts along US 1 on the east, and the San Sebastian River on the west. Flagler expects to master plan this property for a variety of mixed uses of commercial, industrial and residential. Additionally, Flagler has received entitlements for 150,000-sq. ft. of commercial development on 28 acres of the property.
NATIONAL GARDENS
A 5,900-acre tract located in Volusia and Flagler Counties divided by the intersection of I-95 and US 1. As demand develops, Flagler expects to master plan portions of the property for a mixed use of commercial, industrial and residential uses, but will need to first seek and obtain various land use approvals from state, regional and local governmental entities.
TICO TRACT
A 1,700-acre tract located in northern unincorporated Brevard County just to the southwest of the city limits of Titusville. The property fronts along I-95, SR 405 and US 1 and surrounds the Space Coast Executive Airport on two sides. At such time that demand for industrial development dictates, Flagler expects to develop the property as a planned industrial park, but will need to first seek and obtain various approvals from state, regional and local governmental entities.
FORT PIERCE K-4
A 565-acre tract located in St. Lucie County at the southeast quadrant of the intersection of I-95 and the Florida Turnpike. The land use designation for the property is for mixed-use development, with 160 acres of the property presently zoned for heavy industrial. The remainder is presently zoned for agriculture residential. When market analysis reflects the proper demand for industrial use, Flagler expects to develop the industrial zoned property for sale. Various approvals from state, regional and local governmental entities will be required.
107TH AVENUE PROPERTY (SECTION 8)
A 465-acre undeveloped tract located in west Dade County bounded by NW 107th Avenue (west), NW 90th Street (north), NW 74th Street (south) and NW 97th Avenue (east). The property is contiguous to the southeast corner of Beacon Station, Flagler's 500-acre master planned commercial and industrial development and plans are to develop the property in a similar manner.
DOWNTOWN MIAMI LOTS
A 9-acre tract located in downtown Miami fronting on NW 1st Avenue adjacent to the Miami Arena and less than one block from an announced federal courthouse. The future land use designation and zoning of the property are for office/mixed-use. Flagler is evaluating the development of the property for the allowable use.
OVERVIEW OF FECI LAND HOLDINGS
The Company owned and managed 17,218 acres of land at year-end 2000, which included 431 acres on which the buildings set forth immediately above are located; 1,552 acres developed with infrastructure ready to receive buildings, including the projects under development described in Item 1, Part 1 of this Report; 14,053 acres of undeveloped properties described in Item 1, Part I of this Report, and 1,182 acres owned by FECR. These properties are held for lease, development and/or sale and are in fifteen counties of the state of Florida as follows:
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EPIK leases approximately 30,000-sq. ft. of office space in Orlando, Florida where its corporate headquarters are located. EPIK owns 52 specialized telecommunications huts, totaling 24,230-sq. ft., to house telecommunications equipment along the southeast footprint in Florida and Georgia. EPIK also leases 200-sq. ft. of space at Teleplace, and 3,279-sq. ft. of space at the New World Tower, both sites located in Miami, Florida. These two sites were established for the purpose of housing telecommunications equipment. These 54 network sites are fully developed and integrated into the southeast footprint. In addition, EPIK purchased a 27,500-sq. ft. office building in Jacksonville, Florida that is being converted to house telecommunications equipment for EPIK and its customers.
EPIK is in the process of developing over 80 additional sites along the southeast footprint as part of two major development initiatives. Collocation sites are under development in 46 cities along the southeast
footprint. These sites will encompass approximately 141,800-sq. ft. Completion of the collocation development effort is scheduled for third quarter of 2001. The remaining 40 sites under development are part of a metro ring development initiative that includes fiber rings around nine major metropolitan markets along the southeast footprint. Each site is a small node along one of the nine rings. Completion of the metro ring development effort is scheduled for late third or fourth quarter of 2001.
In aggregate, EPIK currently operates 41 network sites in Florida, representing approximately 24,000-sq. ft., and 13 sites in Georgia, representing approximately 3,700-sq. ft of network space. Of the 46 collocation sites under development, 25 are located in Florida (94,000-sq. ft.) and 21 are located in Georgia (47,800-sq. ft.). The metro ring nodes are spread across Florida (32 nodes across eight metro rings) and Georgia (eight nodes across one ring).
TRUCKING
During 2000, FLX relocated its corporate headquarters from Cincinnati, Ohio to Jacksonville, Florida. However, at December 31, 2000, FLX continued to lease approximately 3,500-sq. ft. of space in Cincinnati, Ohio where its previous corporate headquarters and terminal dispatching operations were located. This lease was terminated on March 8, 2001.
FLX leases 717-sq. ft. of office space from FECR, and 7,168-sq. ft. of office space from the prior owner of FLX, both in Jacksonville, Florida. FLX leases 2,500-sq. ft. in Atlanta, Georgia for terminal dispatching operations.
FLX has approximately 226 tractors available, consisting of 141 owner-operated tractors. FLX has a total of 280 trailers in its fleet, consisting of 1-45', 24-48' and 255-53' dry vans.
ITEM 3.