Item 2 of this report. At December 31, 2003, Flagler’s operating properties were 88% occupied. Flagler’s operating properties consist primarily of Class “A” office space and high-quality commercial/industrial facilities constructed after 1992.
At December 31, 2003, Flagler had 1,048,000 sq. ft. of properties in various phases of development, consisting of 343,000 sq. ft. under construction, including a 230,000-sq. ft. build-to-suit, and 705,000 sq. ft. in the pre-development phase, located in the Jacksonville, Orlando and Miami-Dade area markets. For those projects in the pre-development phase, Flagler has invested in engineering, architectural planning and design.
Flagler owns 855 acres of unimproved land with entitlements for the construction of 13.9 million sq. ft. of additional office, industrial and commercial space. Additionally, Flagler owns approximately 2,600 acres of unimproved, unentitled land or land with limited entitlements, primarily situated adjacent to FECR’s rights-of-way along the eastern coast of Florida, available for potential future development or disposition.
Projects under Development
The primary geographic focus of Flagler’s development activities has been in the Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Jacksonville and Orlando markets. Projects under development include:
The following is a summary of the Company’s development activity as of December 31, 2003:
Customers
Flagler leases to approximately 230 tenants in a variety of industries, including financial services, distribution, hospitality services and import/export. Flagler’s largest tenant occupied approximately 6% of leased space at December 31, 2003.
Competition
The real estate industry is generally characterized by significant competition. If market conditions reflect that sales of properties would provide advantageous returns, the Company may decide to sell certain of its developed properties. There are numerous developers and real estate companies (including those in Florida) that compete with the Company in seeking properties for acquisition, resources for development and prospective tenants. Competition may adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain tenants and achieve favorable rental rates. The Company may compete with entities having greater financial and other resources. There can be no assurance that the existence of such competition may not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations or cash flows.
Regulation
Real estate development in Florida is subject to extensive regulation at both the state and local levels.
One of the primary purposes of regulation is to ensure that infrastructure, such as traffic circulation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable water, parks and recreation and transportation facilities, is adequate to serve proposed development. If the facilities in the area of the development are inadequate or will become inadequate as a result of the proposed development, the developer must either improve the infrastructure to a level satisfactory to the regulatory agencies or provide financial assurances that the necessary improvements will be made as development progresses. In many areas of Florida, significant infrastructure improvements need to be made in order to support additional development. Infrastructure improvement requirements could adversely affect the ability of developers in Florida, including Flagler, to develop real estate projects.
Larger developments may be regulated as Development of Regional Impact (DRI) if they meet statutorily prescribed thresholds. The process for obtaining governmental approval of a DRI project includes an evaluation of the project’s impact on the environment, infrastructure and government services, and requires the involvement of numerous federal, state and local governmental agencies. The DRI review process is lengthy and expensive and may result in an approval that requires significant capital improvements or other exactions as a condition of the approved development.
In addition, federal, state and local regulations govern the development of lands containing endangered or protected wildlife species, and sensitive environmental areas such as wetlands and coastal areas. Much of the developable land in Florida is impacted by those regulations. As a result, those regulations may limit the Company’s ability to develop its real estate holdings.
Real estate ownership and development is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation governing hazardous substances. Pursuant to those regulations, the owner or operator of contaminated real estate may be required to perform remediation, regardless of the cause of the contamination. The sale or development of properties may also be restricted due to environmental concerns. In addition, violation of those regulations may result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, natural resource damages, injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. The Company is not presently aware of any material contamination, or any material adverse environmental development issues relating to its real estate operations. However, there can be no assurance that environmental issues will not arise in the future.
Risks
Market Risks. There can be no assurance that the U.S. economy in general, or the economy of the Southeast and Florida in particular, will not continue to be affected by the recent recession or that they will recover as expected. Certain significant expenditures associated with the development, management and servicing of real estate (such as real estate taxes, maintenance costs and debt payments, if any) generally could not be reduced even if an economic downturn caused less revenue to be generated from the Company’s properties. Additionally, capital expenditures (especially infrastructure related) for development of office parks occur early in the construction cycle potentially becoming subject to longer than expected holding periods and costs in the event of economic downturns.
Development Risks. The Company’s real estate development activities require significant capital expenditures. Flagler’s capital expenditures for 2004 are expected to be between $75 million and $85 million. The Company has obtained funds for its capital expenditures and operating activities through operating cash flows, property sales and financings. There can be no assurances that funds available from operating cash flow, property sales and financings will continue to be sufficient to fund the Company’s required or desired capital expenditures for development. If the Company were unable to obtain sufficient funds, it might have to defer or otherwise limit certain development activities. Further, any new development, or any rehabilitation of older projects, may require compliance with new building codes and other regulations. The Company cannot estimate the cost of complying with such codes and regulations, and such costs can make a new project, or some otherwise desirable uses of an existing project, not economically feasible.
Cyclical Risks. Flagler’s leasing occupancy and development are subject to the effect of cycles in the
regional and local economies and, to a lesser extent, by the U.S. national economy. Historically, leasing occupancy and new building development activity are affected favorably by a period of economic recovery and unfavorably by an economic downturn.
Telecommunications
FECI completed the sale of its wholly owned telecommunications subsidiary, EPIK, to Odyssey Telecorp, Inc. (Odyssey), a privately held holding company specializing in telecom network assets during the fourth quarter of 2002. In accordance with SFAS 144, EPIK’s results from operations and the estimated disposition gain have been reported as discontinued operations for all years presented. See Items 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the sale of this subsidiary.
Financial Information about FECI’s Segments
The Company had total segment operating revenues of $339.0 million, an operating profit of $73.9 million and total assets of $1.0 billion in 2003. (See Note 8. Segment Information of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K). The Company’s total railroad operating revenues were $181.1 million and real estate revenues were $157.9 million. Segment operating profit included $43.0 million from the railroad, $44.0 million from real estate, less $13.1 million of corporate general and administrative expenses. During 2002, the Company sold EPIK and discontinued FLX’s trucking operations. The financial statements for 2001 have been restated to reflect these transactions. The financial results of these two businesses, along with certain buildings sold or held for sale and partnership interests sold, are accounted for and shown in discontinued operations, which includes a 2003 and 2002 loss from operation of discontinued operations, net of taxes, of $0.3 million and $168.7 million, respectively, and a 2003 and 2002 gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, of $2.1 million and $10.8 million, respectively.
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
All raw materials FECR and Flagler use, including fuel, track materials and building construction materials, are available in adequate supply from multiple sources.
Seasonality
FECR’s rail traffic is relatively stable throughout the year with higher volumes ordinarily occurring during the second and last quarters of the year. The Company’s real estate business is not generally seasonal.
Working Capital
At December 31, 2003, the Company’s current assets exceeded current liabilities by $104.8 million. The Company had a $200 million revolving credit facility at December 31, 2003 (see Note 15 of the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2003, there were no monies drawn on the facility (see also Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). At December 31, 2003, the Company had cash and cash equivalent balances of $125.1 million, including $5.1 million then designated for possible use to purchase real property via tax-free exchange. The Board of Directors authorized the expenditure of up to $75 million to repurchase its outstanding common stock through a program of open market purchases and privately negotiated transactions. The Company expects to finance the stock repurchase primarily from available cash balances and external financing to the extent necessary. At December 31, 2003, the Company had repurchased $2.9 million of stock pursuant to this authorization.
Employees
FECI employed 26 people; FECR employed 780, and Flagler had 67 employees as of December 31, 2003. Approximately 569 of FECR’s employees are represented by labor unions: United Transportation
Union (UTU) (train and engine service employees), Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees (BMWE) (track maintenance and structures) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) (seven crafts, including agents and clerical, carmen, maintenance of equipment foremen, roadway shop, signals and communications, train dispatchers, boilermakers, electricians, machinists, sheetmetal workers and shop laborers).
FECR is a party to Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) with these three national labor unions. All agreements are currently amendable. The Company is in various stages of collective bargaining on each of these agreements and anticipates a conclusion and execution of multi-year agreements for each craft.
Company Web Address
The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available through the Company’s website (www.feci.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available free of charge upon request from the Company.
Additionally, the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the Committees of the Board of Directors are also posted on the website. This information is also available in print form via mail by request to the Company.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company’s material physical properties at December 31, 2003 are listed below and are grouped by industry segment.
Railway
FECR owns three connected four-story buildings in St. Augustine, Florida, which are used by FECI and FECR as corporate headquarters. FECR also owns a railroad right-of-way, generally 100 feet wide, along the east coast of Florida extending for 351 miles used for its railroad operations. FECR also owns and operates approximately 276 miles of branch, switching and other secondary track, and 159 miles of yard track, various rail car marshalling yards, trailer/container and automobile loading and unloading facilities, signaling system facilities, and a number of operating offices, shops and service house buildings.
On March 2, 1998, FECR entered into a Trackage Agreement with SCFE providing for, among other things, the exclusive operation and maintenance of 56 miles of branch mainline.
FECR’s tracks, bridges and other fixed property and signal improvements are maintained to a level based on the needs of service. The mainline is, in general, constructed of 132-pound per yard continuous welded rail supported on concrete crossties. These facilities provide a reliable infrastructure for rail operations suited to the business demands of customers, including unrestricted movement of double-stacked containers, tri-level automobiles and heavier axle rail cars.
The branch mainlines, way switching and yard tracks are, for the most part, of 115-pound per yard materials supported by wood ties.
FECR owns or leases 74 diesel electric locomotives, 2,488 freight cars, 1,408 trailers for highway revenue service, numerous pieces of rail-mounted and non-rail-mounted work equipment, and numerous automobiles used in maintenance and transportation operations. Generally, FECR’s equipment is in good physical condition, considering its years of service and operating utilization.
During 2003, FECR commenced an engineering- and economics-based study of its principal right-of-way and equipment assets to develop a multi-year preventive maintenance and replacement plan and associated estimates of the assets’ remaining lives. The study is expected to be completed in 2004 and
may result in changes in FECR’s maintenance and capital spending and in the estimated remaining useful lives of its property, plant and equipment, which may affect future depreciation rates and expense.
In addition, FECR currently leases approximately 1,800 rail cars from Greenbrier Leasing Corporation and other entities, with lease lengths of up to five to ten years, cancelable every three years. The lease terms call for FECR to be billed an hourly rate based upon the length of time the car is on-line versus off-line. As a car goes off-line, a per diem rent sharing arrangement goes into effect whereby Greenbrier and FECR apportion the rent based upon the length of time the car is off-line. Rents from the Greenbrier leases received by FECR were $4.0 million, $3.0 million and $0.6 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Certain of these leases provide for base rents payable to Greenbrier by FECR if the car remains on FECR’s line for a specified number of days. To date, these base rents (i.e., those above normal car hire) payable to Greenbrier have been minimal.
FECR also owns lands outside of the right-of-way. These holdings include certain properties in South Florida and large rail yards in Jacksonville, Fort Pierce and Miami. Exclusive of operating rail yards, some of FECR’s land portfolio includes the following:
Right-of-Way Corridors
Several corridors, upon which rail service is not currently provided, remain under control of FECR. The corridor in Volusia and Brevard Counties is approximately 25 miles in length and contains 331 acres. Also, a corridor extends from Edgewater to Maytown connecting to the Aurantia to Benson Junction corridor. This corridor is approximately 16 miles in length and contains 191 acres.
A corridor extends southerly for approximately six miles from the Miami International Airport to a major metropolitan mall in Miami-Dade County. The northerly portion of this corridor remains in rail service.
Miller Shops West
An approximate 200-acre parcel is located along the headwaters of the San Sebastian River in St. Augustine. This parcel is part of FECR’s former mechanical shop property.
Cadillac Gauge Property
This property is located in an industrial area on Cidco Road in Cocoa, Florida. This property has over 100,000 sq. ft. of warehouse space on 72 acres of land. The property offers a variety of uses and is currently being marketed for sale.
Eyster Boulevard
This site is located in the City of Rockledge, south of Eyster Boulevard, and consists of 64.1 acres with approximately 1,290 ft. of frontage along Eyster Boulevard and over 2,600 ft. of rail frontage. A portion of the site has 330 ft. of frontage along Murrell Road. The property is currently being marketed for sale as commercial and industrial sites.
Real Estate
At year-end 2003, Flagler’s commercial and industrial portfolio included 59 buildings aggregating 6.5 million rentable sq. ft. Flagler’s income-producing properties are detailed below:
FLAGLER’S INCOME-PRODUCING BUILDINGS
(at December 31, 2003)
Certain of these buildings are mortgaged to secure loans with outstanding balances due of $241.1 million as of December 31, 2003. Blended interest and principal repayments on the notes are payable monthly based on a fixed 7.23% weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding principal amount of the mortgage notes and a thirty-year amortization period.
Note: Flagler also owns a 60,000 rentable sq. ft. office building, located in SouthPark Center, which is considered held for sale at December 31, 2003, accounted for as a discontinued operation and excluded from its income-producing properties listed above.
The Company periodically reviews its inventory of income-producing commercial and industrial properties, as well as undeveloped properties to determine how best to maximize its value, including possible sale, if market conditions warrant. The Company will continue to develop additional rentable commercial and industrial space if market conditions warrant. The Company currently has 343,000 sq. ft. under
construction, including a 230,000 sq. ft. build-to-suit project, and 705,000 sq. ft. in the pre-development phase (see Part I, Item 1. Business, in this report on Form 10-K).
Flagler’s land portfolio includes the following major land holdings:
Lemberg North
A 580-acre tract located in northern St. Johns County along US 1 between Jacksonville and St. Augustine. The property fronts the western boundary of FECR’s mainline which is immediately adjacent to US 1. Flagler is evaluating the development potential of this property for a variety of possible uses.
Miller Shop
An approximate 270-acre tract, partially owned by Flagler and FECR (Flagler, 70 acres; FECR, 200 acres), located in St. Johns County along US 1 at the northern boundary of the city of St. Augustine. The property fronts US 1 on the east, and the San Sebastian River on the west. Flagler expects to master plan this property for a variety of mixed uses of commercial, industrial and residential.
Fort Pierce K-4
A 335-acre tract located in St. Lucie County at the southeast quadrant of the intersection of I-95 and the Florida Turnpike. The land use designation for the property is for mixed-use development, with 160 acres of the property presently zoned for heavy industrial. The remainder is presently zoned for agriculture or residential. When market analysis reflects the proper demand for industrial use, the property could be developed as industrial zoned property. Various approvals from state, regional and local government entities will be required. This property is currently being marketed for sale.
107th Avenue Property (Section 8)
A 465-acre undeveloped tract located in west Dade County bounded by NW 107th Avenue (west), NW 90th Street (north), NW 74th Street (south) and NW 97th Avenue (east). The property is contiguous to the southeast corner of Flagler Station, Flagler’s 850-acre master planned commercial and industrial development. Section 8 is currently under contract for sale for $80 million to an unaffiliated third party. The sale is scheduled to close during the fourth quarter of 2004.
Downtown Miami Lot
An 8-acre tract located in downtown Miami fronting on NW 1st Avenue adjacent to the Miami Arena and less than one block from an announced federal courthouse. The future land use designation and zoning of the property are for office/mixed-use. Flagler is evaluating the development of the property for the allowable future use.
Medley
A 41-acre parcel located at 121st Street in Medley. The property is located adjacent to Flagler Station Section 32. The parcel is currently being marketed for sale.
Summary of FECI Land Holdings
The Company owned and managed 6,024 acres of land at year-end 2003, which included 491 acres on which buildings are located; 855 acres of developable land with entitlements, including the projects under development described in Item 1, Part 1 of this report; 3,465 acres of undeveloped land, including the undeveloped properties described in Item 1, Part I of this report, and 1,213 acres owned by FECR. These properties are held for lease, development and/or sale and are in fourteen counties of the state of Florida as follows:
ITEM 3.