Item 2.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial Data presented in Item 6 and our accompanying financial statements and notes thereto. See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” preceding Part I of this report and “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. of this report.
Overview
Portfolio Overview
We are in the disposition-and-liquidation phase of our life cycle. We have now sold all our properties with the sale of Paces Pavilion in November 2006 and Black Oak Plaza in January 2007. This marks the conclusion of this investment program, originally launched in 1984. As a result of the sale of all of the properties, we will focus resources on concluding all of the Partnership’s activities and dissolving the Partnership upon resolution of certain litigation related to partnership matters (See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings).
We distributed net sale proceeds from the sales of Cherokee Commons, Heritage Place, and Peachtree Place of approximately $3,400,000 to limited partners in November 2006. We have announced the next planned net sale proceeds distribution, scheduled for the second quarter 2007, totaling approximately $7,200,000 from the sales of Heritage Place, Paces Pavilion, and Black Oak Plaza. Our General Partners are currently reserving the remaining net sale proceeds and operating cash flows to limited partners in order to fund any additional legal costs or indemnification obligations in connection with the litigation discussed herein, and any remaining expenses and obligations of the partnership associated with its final dissolution. The dissolution expenses include, but are not limited to, legal fees, audit and tax fees, printing and postage costs, potential liabilities under the final purchase and sale agreements, and additional legal costs and/or reimbursements in connection with the litigation discussed herein, and other administrative expenses. We expect that a final distribution of any unused reserves will be made to limited partners as soon as practical.
Property Summary
As we move further into the disposition-and-liquidation phase, we will focus resources on concluding all of the Partnership’s activities and dissolving the Partnership as soon as practical.
Information relating to the properties owned, or previously owned, by the Partnership or its Joint Ventures is provided below:
•
Crowe’s Crossing was sold on January 11, 2001.
•
Cherokee Commons was sold on October 1, 2001.
•
Heritage Place originally included both an office component and a retail shopping center. The retail center, which represented approximately 30% of the premises, was sold on April 7, 2003. The remaining office component was sold on May 10, 2006.
•
Peachtree Place originally included two buildings. One building was sold on August 31, 2000, and the second building sold on June 18, 2004.
•
Paces Pavilion was sold on November 6, 2006.
•
Black Oak Plaza was sold on January 25, 2007.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Short-Term Liquidity
Cash provided by operating activities, including operating distributions received from Fund I and Fund II Tucker, was approximately $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We held such net operating cash flows in reserve during 2006 to fund any additional legal costs or indemnification obligation in connection with litigation discussed herein. We do not expect to receive future operating distributions from Fund I and Fund II Tucker, as the remaining portion of Heritage Place was sold in May 2006. We anticipate operating distributions to limited partners will be reserved in the future as a result of having sold all of the real estate assets in which we owned interests.
During 2006, our primary source of cash flow was net proceeds of approximately $6.2 million received from the sale of properties owned directly and through Fund I and Fund II Tucker, of which approximately $3.4 million was distributed to limited partners.
We believe that the cash on hand, including net sale proceeds from the sale of properties, is sufficient to cover our working capital needs, including liabilities of approximately $126,000, as of December 31, 2006. We anticipate that we will be able to fund any additional operating costs or indemnification obligations in connection with the litigation discussed herein.
Long-Term Liquidity
We have sold all of the real estate assets in which we owned interests and do not anticipate acquiring additional properties. Accordingly, we expect that our future source of capital will primarily include net proceeds that was generated from the sale of our properties as previously mentioned.
Capital Resources
The Partnership is an investment vehicle formed for the purpose of acquiring, owning, and operating income-producing real properties, or investing in joint ventures formed for the same purpose, and has invested all of the partners’ original capital contributions. We anticipate using net property sale proceeds to order to fund any additional legal costs or indemnification obligations in connection with the litigation discussed herein, and any remaining expenses and obligations of the partnership associated with its final dissolution. As of December 31, 2006, we had received, used, distributed, and held net sale proceeds allocated to the Partnership from the sale of properties as presented below:
Our General Partners distributed net sale proceeds of approximately $3,400,000 in November 2006. In January 2007, the Partnership received net sales proceeds from the sale of Black Oak Plaza of approximately $3,469,000. Our General Partners anticipate distributing net sale proceeds of approximately $7,200,000 in May 2007 from the sales of the office component of Heritage Place, Paces Pavilion, and Black Oak Plaza, as further discussed below.
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
In December 2006, our General Partners announced their intention to distribute net sale proceeds from sales of the office component of Heritage Place, Paces Pavilion, and Black Oak Plaza of approximately $7.2 million in May 2007 to the limited partners of record as of March 31, 2007, which, under the terms of the partnership agreement, does not include limited partners acquiring units after December 31, 2006. Following such distribution, we intend to hold residual net sale proceeds of approximately $2.1 million in reserve to fund any additional operating costs or indemnification obligations in connection with the litigation discussed herein.
This distribution has not been formally declared by our General Partners. In accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement, our General Partners may elect to retain reserves deemed reasonably necessary for the Partnership in the sole discretion of the General Partners. Thus, should a change in circumstances prior to the intended distribution date require the General Partners to reevaluate the Partnership’s reserve requirements, it is possible that this distribution may not occur or that such distribution could be made at a lower amount.
Results of Operations
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2006 vs. the year ended December 31, 2005
Continuing Operations
Interest and other income increased from $121,636 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to $247,326 for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of (i) an increase in the average net proceeds held during the respective periods as a result of the May 2006 sale of the office portion of Heritage Place and the November 2006 sale of Paces Pavilion, (ii) an increase in the daily interest yield, partially offset by (iii) the net sale proceeds distributed in November 2006. Future levels of interest income will be largely dependent upon net sale proceeds distributions to the limited partners, and utilizing net sale proceeds for any additional operating costs or indemnification obligations in connection with the litigation discussed herein.
General and administrative costs decreased from $420,945 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to $397,751 for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to a decline in legal fees due to resolving certain litigation involving the Partnership. General and administrative costs are expected to decrease in future periods relative to the reduction in the size of the portfolio.
Equity in loss of Joint Ventures increased from $31,787 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to $443,790 for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily attributable to recognizing an impairment loss on Heritage Place in the first quarter of 2006. We expect future equity in loss of Joint Ventures to decrease as a result of the aforementioned sale.
Discontinued Operations
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 144, we have classified the operations of real estate assets sold or held for sale as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Income from discontinued operations increased from approximately $299,663 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to approximately $2,031,116 for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of recognizing the gain on the sale of Paces Pavilion in November 2006. We do not expect income from discontinued operations to be comparable with prior periods, as such income is subject to existence and timing of property dispositions. We expect future income from discontinued operations to decline as a result of selling all of the real estate assets owned directly by the Partnership or through the Joint Ventures.
Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2005 vs. the year ended December 31, 2004
Continuing Operations
Interest and other income increased from $84,486 for the year ended December 31, 2004 to $121,636 for the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of higher interest rate earned on the net sale proceeds held by the Partnership during 2005.
General and administration decreased from $944,227 for the year ended December 31, 2004 to $420,945 for the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to a decline in legal fees due to resolving certain litigation involving the Partnership.
Equity in loss of Joint Ventures increased from $17,098 year ended December 31, 2004 to $31,787 for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily attributable to a decrease in rental income and reimbursement income as a result of the decrease in occupancy at Heritage Place, partially offset by a reduction in depreciation expense for building assets resulting from a change in the estimated weighted-average composite useful life from 25 years to 40 years effective July 1, 2004.
Discontinued Operations
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, we have classified the operations of real estate assets sold or held for sale as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Income from discontinued operations decreased from approximately $466,229 for the year ended December 31, 2004 to approximately $299,663 for the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of recognizing the gain on the sale of Peachtree Place in June 2004.
Inflation
We are exposed to inflation risk as income from long-term leases is the primary source of our cash flows from operations. There are provisions in the majority of our tenant leases that would protect us from the impact of inflation. These provisions include rent steps, reimbursement billings for operating expense pass-through charges, real estate tax and insurance reimbursements on a per-square-foot basis, or in some cases, annual reimbursement of operating expenses above a certain per-square-foot allowance. However, due to the long-term nature of our leases, the leases may not readjust their reimbursement rates frequently enough to cover inflation.
Application of Critical Accounting Policies
Our accounting policies have been established to conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If management’s judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, thus resulting in a different presentation of the financial statements. Additionally, other companies may utilize different estimates that may impact comparability of our results of operations to those of companies in similar businesses.
Below is a discussion of the accounting policies used by the Partnership and Fund I and Fund II Tucker, which are considered to be critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.
Investment in Real Estate Assets
We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its depreciable assets. We considered the period of future benefit of the asset to determine the appropriate useful lives. These assessments have a direct impact on net income. The estimated useful lives of our assets by class were as follows:
In the third quarter of 2004, the Partnership completed a review of its real estate depreciation by performing an analysis of the components of each property type in an effort to determine weighted-average composite useful lives of its real estate assets. As a result of this review, effective July 1, 2004, the Partnership extended the weighted-average composite useful life from 25 years to 40 years for all building assets. This change resulted in an increase to net income of approximately $93,000, or $0.94 per unit, for Class A Units, and a decrease to loss of approximately $79,000, or $1.86 per unit, for Class B Units for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Partnership believed that the change more appropriately reflected the estimated useful lives of the respective building assets and was consistent with prevailing industry practice. In the event that we used inappropriate useful lives or methods for depreciation, our net income would have been misstated.
Valuation of Real Estate Assets
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate that the carrying amounts of the real estate assets in which we have an ownership interest, either directly or through investments in Fund I and Fund II Tucker, may not be recoverable. When indicators of potential impairment are present which indicate that the carrying amounts of real estate assets may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of the real estate assets by determining whether the carrying value of the real estate assets will be recovered through the undiscounted future operating cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. In the event that such expected undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, management adjusts the real estate assets to the fair value, as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, and recognizes an impairment loss. Estimated fair values are calculated based on the following information, dependent upon availability, in order of preference: (i) recently quoted market prices, (ii) market prices for comparable properties, or (iii) the present value of undiscounted cash flows, including estimated salvage value. In the first quarter of 2006, Fund I and Fund II Tucker recognized an impairment loss of approximately $795,000, of which approximately $413,000 was allocated to the Partnership in order to reduce the carrying value of the office component of Heritage Place to its fair value, less costs to sell, as a result of a change in management’s intended holding period for this asset.
Projections of expected future cash flows require management to estimate future market rental income amounts subsequent to the expiration of current lease agreements, property operating expenses, discount rates, the number of months it takes to re-lease the property, and the number of years the property is held for investment. The use of inappropriate assumptions in the future cash flow analysis would result in an incorrect assessment of the property’s future cash flows and fair value, and could result in the overstatement of the carrying value of real estate assets owned by the Partnership or Fund I and Fund II Tucker and net income of the Partnership.
Related-Party Transactions and Agreements
We have entered into agreements with Wells Capital, Wells Management, an affiliate of our General Partners, and their affiliates, whereby we pay certain fees and expense reimbursements to Wells Capital, Wells Management, and their affiliates for asset management; the management and leasing of our properties; administrative services relating to accounting, property management, and other partnership administration; and incur the related expenses. See Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for a description of these fees and reimbursements and amounts incurred and “Risk Factors - Conflicts of Interest” in Item 1A. of this report.
Potential Tax Impact for Limited Partners Holding Class B Units - American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 added Section 470 to the Internal Revenue Code, which provides for certain limitations on the utilization of losses by investors that are attributable to leased property owned by a partnership having both taxable and tax-exempt partners such as the Partnership. If Section 470 were deemed to apply to the Partnership, passive losses allocable to limited partners holding Class B Units could only be utilized to offset passive income generated from the same property or potentially from properties owned by the same
partnership. In March 2005, the IRS announced that it would not apply Section 470 to partnerships for the taxable year 2004 based solely on the fact that a partnership had both taxable and tax-exempt partners. In December 2005, the IRS extended the period for transitional relief through the 2005 tax year, and in December 2006, the IRS again extended the period for transitional relief through all tax years beginning prior to January 1, 2007. In addition, pursuant to Section 403(ff) of the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005, the effective date provisions regarding the applicability of Section 470 were amended to provide that, in the case of leased property treated as tax-exempt use property by reason of its being owned by a partnership having both taxable and tax-exempt partners, Section 470 will apply only to property acquired after March 12, 2004. Since the Partnership acquired all of its properties prior to March 12, 2004, and is not expected to acquire interests in any additional properties in the future, we do not believe that the provisions of Section 470 should apply to limit the utilization of losses attributable to the properties owned by the Partnership; however, due to the uncertainties and lack of guidance relating to this provision, it is unclear as to whether the acquisition of a limited partnership interest in the Partnership after the March 12, 2004 effective date may be deemed to be an acquisition of property within the meaning of the effective date provisions of Section 470.
Subsequent Event
On January 25, 2007, the Partnership sold Black Oak Plaza to an unrelated third party for a gross sale price of $3,700,000, less credits of approximately $107,000, excluding closing costs. As a result of the sale, the Partnership received net sale proceeds of approximately $3,469,000 and recognized a gain of approximately $457,000, which may be adjusted as additional information becomes available in subsequent periods.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
Since we do not borrow any money, make any foreign investments, or invest in any market risk-sensitive instruments, we are not subject to risks relating to interest rates, foreign current exchange rate fluctuations, or the other market risks contemplated by Item 305 of Regulation S-K.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Our consolidated financial statements and supplementary data are detailed under Item 15(a) and filed as part of the report on the pages indicated.
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
On September 22, 2006, the Financial Oversight Committee of the General Partners dismissed Ernst & Young LLP as the Partnership’s independent registered public accounting firm, effective immediately. Also, on September 22, 2006, the Financial Oversight Committee engaged Frazier & Deeter, LLC as its independent registered public accounting firm.
Ernst & Young LLP’s reports on the financial statements of the Partnership for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were they qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principle.
During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the subsequent interim period through September 22, 2006, there were no disagreements with Ernst & Young LLP on any matters related to accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosures, or auditing scope or procedures, which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Ernst & Young LLP, would have caused Ernst & Young LLP to make reference thereto in their reports on the financial statements of the Partnership for such years. There were no reportable events as set forth in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
The Partnership provided Ernst & Young LLP with a copy of the Form 8-K filed with regard to the change in independent registered public accounting firm, which was filed with the SEC on September 27, 2006, and requested that Ernst & Young LLP furnish the Partnership with a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether or not it agrees with the foregoing statements. A copy of Ernst & Young LLP’s letter dated September 27, 2006, was filed as Exhibit 16.1 to the September 27, 2006 Form 8-K.
During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and through September 22, 2006, the Partnership did not consult with Frazier & Deeter, LLC with respect to the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Partnership’s financial statements, or any other matters or reportable events as set forth in Items 304(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K.
There were no disagreements with the Partnership’s independent public accountants during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management of Wells Capital, our corporate general partner, including the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Partnership’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report in providing a reasonable level of assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in applicable SEC rules and forms, including providing a reasonable level of assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Principal Executive Officer and our Principal Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
There were no significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2006 that have materially affected, or are likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.
For the quarter ended December 31, 2006, all items required to be disclosed under Form 8-K were reported under Form 8-K.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT’S GENERAL PARTNERS.
Wells Capital
Wells Capital, our corporate general partner, was formed in April 1984. The executive offices of Wells Capital are located at 6200 The Corners Parkway, Norcross, Georgia 30092. Leo F. Wells, III is the sole Director and the President of Wells Capital. Wells Capital was organized under the Georgia Business Corporation Code, and is primarily in the business of serving as general partner or as an affiliate of the general partner in affiliated public limited partnerships (“Wells Real Estate Funds”). Wells Capital or its affiliates serves as the advisor to the Wells Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc., Wells Real Estate Investment Trust II, Inc., Wells Timberland REIT, Inc., and Institutional REIT, Inc. (collectively, “Wells REITs”), each of which are Maryland corporations. Wells Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc. and Wells Real Estate Investment Trust II, Inc. qualify as real estate investment trusts, and Wells Timberland REIT, Inc. and Institutional REIT, Inc. intend to qualify as real estate investment trusts beginning with the year ending December 31, 2007. In these capacities, Wells Capital performs certain services for Wells Real Estate Funds and the Wells REITs, including presenting, structuring, and acquiring real estate investment opportunities; entering into leases and service contracts on acquired properties; arranging for and completing the disposition of properties; and providing other services such as accounting and administrative functions. Wells Capital is a wholly owned subsidiary of WREF, of which Leo F. Wells, III is the sole stockholder.
Leo F. Wells, III
Mr. Wells, 63, who serves as one of our General Partners, is the president, treasurer, and sole director of Wells Capital, which is our corporate general partner. He is also the sole stockholder, president, and sole director of WREF, the parent corporation of Wells Capital, Wells Management, Wells Investment Securities, Inc. (“WIS”), and Wells & Associates, Inc., a real estate brokerage and investment company formed in 1976 and incorporated in 1978, for which Mr. Wells serves as principal broker. He is also the president, treasurer, and sole director of:
•
Wells Management, our property manager;
•
Wells Asset Management, Inc.;
•
Wells & Associates, Inc.; and
•
Wells Development Corporation, a company he organized in 1997 to develop real properties.
Mr. Wells is a director of each of the Wells REITs, which are Maryland corporations that either currently qualify as real estate investment trusts or intend to qualify as real estate investment trusts beginning with the year ending December 31, 2007.
Mr. Wells was a real estate salesman and property manager from 1970 to 1973 for Roy D. Warren & Company, an Atlanta-based real estate company, and he was associated from 1973 to 1976 with Sax Gaskin Real Estate Company. From 1980 to February 1985 he served as Vice President of Hill-Johnson, Inc., a Georgia corporation engaged in the construction business. Mr. Wells holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in economics from the University of Georgia. Mr. Wells is a member of the Financial Planning Association.
On August 26, 2003, Mr. Wells and WIS entered into a Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent (“AWC”) with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) relating to alleged rule violations. The AWC set forth the NASD’s findings that WIS and Mr. Wells had violated conduct rules relating to the provision of noncash compensation of more than $100 to associated persons of NASD member firms in connection with their attendance at the annual educational and due diligence conferences sponsored by WIS in 2001 and 2002. Without admitting or denying the allegations and findings against them, WIS and Mr. Wells consented in the AWC to various findings by the NASD, which are summarized in the following paragraph:
In 2001 and 2002, WIS sponsored conferences attended by registered representatives who sold its real estate investment products. WIS also paid for certain expenses of guests of the registered representatives who
attended the conferences. In 2001, WIS paid the costs of travel to the conference and meals for many of the guests, and paid the costs of playing golf for some of the registered representatives and their guests. WIS later invoiced registered representatives for the cost of golf and for travel expenses of guests, but was not fully reimbursed for such. In 2002, WIS paid for meals for the guests. WIS also conditioned most of the 2001 conference invitations on attainment by the registered representatives of a predetermined sales goal for WIS products. This conduct violated the prohibitions against payment and receipt of noncash compensation in connection with the sales of these products contained in NASD’s Conduct Rules 2710, 2810, and 3060. In addition, WIS and Mr. Wells failed to adhere to all of the terms of their written undertaking made in March 2001 not to engage in the conduct described above, and thereby engaged in conduct that was inconsistent with high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in violation of NASD Conduct Rule 2110.
WIS consented to a censure and Mr. Wells consented to suspension from acting in a principal capacity with an NASD member firm for one year. WIS and Mr. Wells also agreed to the imposition of a joint and several fine in the amount of $150,000. Mr. Wells’ one-year suspension from acting in a principal capacity ended on October 6, 2004. Mr. Wells continues to represent the issuer and perform other nonprincipal activities on behalf of WIS.
In November 2004, a putative class action complaint, the Hendry Action, was filed against, among others, Wells Capital and Mr. Wells, our General Partners, and Wells Management. See Part I, Item 3