ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Since the Merger, Company management has integrated the business activities and operations of the separate companies which were both engaged in exploration and production activities. In addition, management and the Company's technical staff has continued to pursue acquisitions of proved properties and exploration prospects consistent with its business strategy.
PRODUCING PROPERTIES
From the commencement of significant operations in February 1996, the Company has acquired producing properties with the intent of enhancing production and lowering operating costs through re-engineering and development. Management believes further development opportunities and exploration potential exists in several of the fields. The following table lists fields operated by the Company, their location, and approximate working and net revenue interest.
OPERATED PROPERTIES
(FOOTNOTES ON FOLLOWING PAGE)
- ------------
(1) Incremental interests in previous acquisitions.
(2) Majority of wells are 100%, however, one at 30% W.I., 22.5% NRI.
(3) 70% W.I., 50.5% NRI, and one at 50% W.I., 35.75 NRI
(4) Table does not include subsequent divestitures.
In addition to the operated fields listed above, the Company has acquired interests in numerous non-operated properties located primarily in Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROSPECTS
The Company's domestic drilling is conducted primarily on prospects located in South Louisiana and along the Texas Gulf Coast. The Company generates its exploratory and development drilling prospects internally (through acquisitions or separately) or through a joint venture ("Joint Venture") with Bechtel Exploration Company ("Bechtel"). Some of the Company's drilling prospects are not fully leased or optioned but are in various stages of development and leasing. The Company classifies individual prospects based on their risk profile. A drilling prospect may be classified as "proved undeveloped" in accordance with rules of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers ("SPEE") and the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such prospects are referred to herein as "development prospects". All other drilling prospects are classified as exploratory prospects. Risks associated with exploratory drilling range from high risk "wildcat" type activities where little data exists other than seismic data indicating a structure or trap, to lower risk prospects where well control, engineering, production and other data exists, along with seismic data, to indicate the possible presence of hydrocarbons. Lower risk exploratory prospects are referred to as "exploitation" opportunities or prospects. No assurances can be given that any drilling prospect will result in commercial production. A summary of Company prospects is set forth below.
RACELAND 3-D PROSPECT. The Company currently owns approximately 83% in leases and/or options in the Raceland Prospect, located in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana. Approximately 62 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data was acquired in 1996 and processing was completed in 1997. In 1998, as a result of the Merger and change in management, a new technical team was assigned to the Raceland project. The seismic and well data was completely re-mapped and four significant prospects with multiple drilling opportunities were developed. Additional prospects are expected to be defined. Texoil increased its prospect ownership to 83% from about 30%. Approximately 7,600 acres are now under lease or option. The Company is continuing to interpret the 3-D data set for additional prospects. The Company intends to solicit partners, on a promoted basis, to drill the most significant features on its acreage. However, such drilling requires a deep exploratory well estimated to cost in excess of $3.8 million. Industry conditions have adversely affected most corporate budgets and accordingly, although the project has been favorably interpreted by a number of companies, Texoil has yet to assemble adequate drilling partners. The Company intends to maintain the project and solicit partners in 1999. The Raceland Field has produced approximately 27 million barrels of oil and associated natural gas. The productive field and surrounding area has not previously been analyzed by 3-D seismic surveys to detect untested fault blocks or deeper potential. The project area lies in the vicinity of numerous significant fields, including the Lake Boeuf and Southwest Lake Boeuf fields and targets miocene-age sand objectives ranging from 12,000 to 17,000 feet in depth.
GREENS LAKE 3-D PROSPECT. The Company owns a 30% non-operated working interest in approximately 5,500 gross acres located in Galveston County, Texas. Texoil is attempting to increase its ownership and become the operator. Approximately 22 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data was initially acquired in 1996. An initial test well was drilled to a depth of 11,750 feet in the summer of 1997 and determined to be non-commercial. However, more recently, two discovery wells have been drilled by operators immediately offsetting the Company's acreage. Interpretation of the complete 3-D data set continues over prospective areas within the 3-D survey area. Multiple prospects have been developed based on adjacent discoveries, including two proved undeveloped locations, a low risk exploitation prospect, and a deep exploration prospect. Some of the prospects have multiple sand objectives.
JOINT VENTURE. The objective of the Joint Venture is to generate and lease exploratory, exploitation and development prospects, fully integrating 3-D seismic data with well control, engineering, production and other data, thereby reducing drilling risk. Bechtel contributed numerous prospect leads, resulting from extensive experience in South Louisiana and the Texas Gulf Coast, the use of a 3-D work station and more than 50 square miles of 3-D data in Calcasieu and Cameron Parishes, Louisiana. The Company funded the acquisition of approximately 200 square miles of 3-D seismic data in Lafayette, Vermilion and Acadia Parishes, Louisiana, a limited amount of monthly operating costs and related costs of leasing prospects. The initial 3-D based prospect generation activity is referred to herein as the "Lafayette Project". Joint Venture activities are not confined to the Lafayette Project and, accordingly, the Company retains an 80% interest in all prospects generated by the Joint Venture. That interest is reduced to 75% on prospects generated after the Company is reimbursed for 100% of its costs. The Company generally intends to retain a 10-30% interest in all prospects and sell interests to industry or other partners on a promoted basis.
The following is a discussion of major prospect areas being developed by the Joint Venture:
LAFAYETTE PROJECT. The primary focus of this project is to explore for and develop reserves within a 200 square mile 3-D seismic data base located in Acadia, Lafayette and Vermilion Parishes, Louisiana. The 3-D seismic data is being interpreted by Bechtel and Company representatives. Prospective horizons range from 9,000 feet to 17,000 feet subsurface. This project is designed to generate or acquire low risk prospects with multiple objectives. Since September of 1997, this project has generated numerous prospects. To date, Texoil has generally retained a 10% direct interest plus certain carried or reversionary interests. Following is a list of prospects in which Texoil has or intends to directly participate.
PROSPECT STATUS ----------- ----------- West Ridge........................... Drilled -- discovery, on production Lucky Seven.......................... Drilled -- dry-hole Dixie Cup............................ Drilled -- completing Dryades.............................. Leased -- to be drilled Great Scott.......................... Leased -- to be drilled Tee Scott............................ Leased -- to be drilled Perry Pass........................... Leasing
The Joint Venture has developed additional prospects for which acreage is not presently available. The Joint Venture will monitor lease status and pursue such prospects when able. Additional prospects are expected to be generated from existing data.
LAROSE PROJECT. The LaRose project is located in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana and includes two development drilling prospects with multiple objective sands, at depths down to approximately 13,500 feet, a shallow exploratory test in a fault block adjacent to production and significant potential below 14,500 feet. The Company presently controls 631 acres in the heart of the play and is considering leasing additional acreage. Prospects have initially been defined using traditional 2-D, well control and engineering techniques and will be further developed with 3-D seismic technology. Shallow objectives can be imaged with existing 3-D coverage which the Company plans to purchase, but deeper potential may require shooting additional data.
OTHER PROSPECTS. The Company has certain other prospects under lease, option or which are held by production in existing fields. Certain prospects may be drilled without 3-D analysis due to the quality of existing engineering and geological data and nature of the objective reservoir. Additional prospects and leads are expected to be developed as a result of the continuing acquisition, development and exploration program of the Company.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES, RESERVES AND PRODUCTION
The information set forth below concerning the Company's drilling activities, oil and gas reserves and production reflect the operations of Cliffwood as of and for the periods ended December 31, 1998 and 1997,
with the net oil and gas properties of Texoil existing immediately prior to the Merger reflected as an acquisition on December 31, 1997.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
During 1998 the Company participated in the drilling of three exploratory wells resulting in two discoveries and one dry hole. Successful drilling resulted in .22 net wells to the Company's interest. No development wells were drilled in 1998.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
Presented below is information related to the proved reserves owned by the Company as of December 31, 1998 and 1997. The Company's oil and gas reserves, estimated pre-tax future net cash flows and related discounted present value at 10% ("PV-10 Value") were estimated by T. J. Smith & Company Inc., and W. D. Von Gonten & Co., independent petroleum engineers.
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, -------------------- 1998 1997 --------- --------- Proved developed: Crude oil (MBbls)............... 7,341 4,138 Natural gas (MMcf).............. 28,643 7,294 Proved undeveloped: Crude oil (MBbls)............... 1,872 565 Natural gas (MMcf).............. 8,916 4,328 Total proved: Crude oil (MBbls)............... 9,213 4,703 Natural gas (MMcf).............. 37,559 11,622 Estimated pre-tax future net cash flows ($000's)..................... $ 77,756 $ 46,252 PV-10 Value ($000's)................. $ 46,191 $ 27,116
The net reserve information listed above is only an estimate. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production, timing of development expenditures, prices and many factors beyond the control of the Company. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production rates, operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. Therefore, the quantities and values shown above are subject to change and should not be construed as the market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to Texoil's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, estimates of future net revenues from the Company's properties and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas sales prices being received as of the dates of such estimates and such prices are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. The average product prices used in these estimates as of December 31, 1998, were $9.51 per barrel of oil and $2.14 per thousand cubic feet of gas, which compares to December 31, 1997, prices of $16.21 per barrel of oil and $2.52 per thousand cubic feet of gas. The specified natural gas prices include the effect of natural gas liquids (NGL's).
PRODUCTION AND SALES
The following table presents certain information related to oil and gas production from the Company's interest in its properties, average sales price received and average production costs incurred during the two years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997.
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, -------------------- 1998 1997 --------- --------- Production: Oil (MBbls)..................... 518 255 Gas (MMcf)...................... 1,468 707 Total (MBOE).................... 763 373 Average Sales Price Oil (MBbls)..................... $ 12.29 $ 18.50 Gas (MMcf)...................... $ 1.90 $ 2.11 Per BOE......................... $ 12.04 $ 17.07 Production costs per BOE............. $ 5.71 $ 6.49
The Company's production is sold primarily to large petroleum purchasers. Due to the quality of its crude oil production, the Company may receive a discount or premium from index prices or "posted" prices in the area. Texoil's gas production is sold primarily to pipelines and/or gas marketers under short- term contracts at prices which are tied to the "spot" market for gas sold in the area. Management believes that certain of the production costs incurred in 1998 and 1997 are a result of initial re-engineering activities that relate to acquired properties and are non-recurring.
Revenues received (or receivables) from companies comprising more than 10% of the Company's total sales in each of the last two years were as follows:
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, -------------------- 1998 1997 --------- --------- EOTT Energy.......................... 10% 16% Gateway Gathering.................... 5% 20% Phillips............................. 18% 13%
PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND ACREAGE
The following table summarizes the producing oil and gas wells in which the Company had a working interest as of December 31, 1998:
- ------------
(1) Gross wells are the total number of wells in which the Company has a working interest.
(2) Net wells are the sum of the Company's fractional working interests in the gross wells.
(3) Includes small geographically scattered non-operated interests in several states.
The following table shows the Company's developed and undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 1997.
GROSS NET --------- --------- Developed Acreage(1)................. 52,514 26,128 Undeveloped Acreage(2)............... 20,323 11,464 --------- --------- 72,837 37,592 ========= =========
- ------------
(1) Developed acreage is comprised of acres pooled with, unitized from, or assigned to productive wells.
(2) Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or have not been completed to a point that could permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
It is customary in the oil and gas industry to make a limited review of title to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired. It is also customary to obtain more extensive title examinations prior to the commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped leases or prior to the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties. With respect to the future acquisition of both undeveloped and developed leaseholds, the Company plans to conduct title examinations on such properties in a manner generally consistent with such industry practices. The Company has obtained title opinions, title reports or otherwise conducted title investigations covering substantially all of its producing properties and believes it has satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. The Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, overriding royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use or affect the value of such properties.
Substantially all of the Company's oil and gas properties are and may continue to be mortgaged to secure borrowings under bank credit facilities (see "Item 6. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation -- Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Cash Flow from Financing").
GLOSSARY
The terms defined in this section are used throughout this Annual Report.
"BACK-IN INTEREST" is a carried share in a well that converts to a regular working interest at a specific time, such as payout. The interest of a farmor in a farmout agreement or assignor (the party that turns over their interest) of a lease reverts to a specific share of the working interest for the farmor or assignor after the farmee or assignee (the party that receives the interest in the lease) has recovered specified costs, such as drilling and completion costs from production (back-in right).
"BARREL OR BBL" refers to 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume and represents the basic unit for measuring crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
"BOE" refers to one barrel of oil equivalent, which is determined using the ratio of one barrel of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids to six Mcf (see below) of natural gas so that six thousand cubic feet of natural gas is referred to as equivalent to one barrel of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids.
"CARRIED INTEREST" OR "CARRIED WORKING INTEREST" is a fractional interest in a lease which is free of all costs of drilling and completing a well up to a certain point, such as to casing point, through the tanks, or during the life of the well. The carried party's expenses are paid by the other parties who own the working interest in the well. After the point is reached, the carried interest usually becomes a working interest and shares in the costs.
"DEVELOPMENT WELL" means a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon indicated to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
"DRY HOLE" refers to a well that is found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
"EXPLORATORY WELL" means a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
"FARM-OUTS" means an agreement whereby the owner of an oil and gas lease who does not desire to drill agrees to assign the lease, or an interest therein, to another who does desire to drill on the prospect of which the lease is a part. The obligation of the lease owner to assign the lease or interest therein is usually conditioned upon the drilling of one or more wells by the farmee and the lease owner generally retains some interest in the interest assigned such as an overriding royalty interest, working interest, production payment, offset acreage or other type of interest.
"GROSS ACRE" refers to an acre in which a working interest is owned.
"GROSS WELL" refers to a well in which a working interest is owned.
"MCF" refers to one thousand cubic feet of natural gas, expressed, where gas sales contracts are in effect, in terms of contractual temperature and pressure bases and, where contracts are nonexistent, at 60F and 14.65 psi.
"MBBLS" means one thousand barrels.
"MBOE" means one thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
"MMCF" means one million cubic feet of natural gas, expressed on the same basis as a Mcf of gas.
"NET ACRES OR NET WELLS" means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
"NET REVENUE INTEREST" means the percentage of production to which the owner of a working interest is entitled. For example, the owner of a 100% working interest in a well burdened only by a landowner's royalty of 20% would have an 80% net revenue interest in that well.
"OIL" refers to crude oil and condensate.
"OVERRIDING ROYALTY INTEREST" refers to a royalty or percentage of the gross income from production deducted from the working interest.
"PRODUCTION COSTS" means lease operating expenses and taxes on oil and natural gas production.
"PROSPECT" means a geographic area believed by the Company to encompass one or more subsurface features which the Company believes may be productive of oil or natural gas if drilled. In order for a prospect to be drilled, it is typically necessary for the operator of the prospect to obtain oil and gas leases covering the prospect from multiple owners of the mineral interests underlying the prospect. References in this Annual Report to "prospect areas" or "prospects" mean geographic areas of exploratory interest that may be entirely unleased or in various stages of leasing and should not be understood to imply that all oil and gas leases necessary for drilling of the prospects are owned by the operator of the prospect or the Company, as the case may be.
"PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES" means oil or gas reserves that are expected to be recovered from existing wells (including reserves behind pipe). Improved recovery reserves are considered developed only after the necessary equipment has been installed, or when the costs to do so are relatively minor. Proved developed reserves may be subcategorized as producing or non-producing.
"PROVED RESERVES" means oil or gas reserves that can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be recoverable under current economic conditions. Current economic conditions include prices and costs prevailing at the time of the estimate. Proved reserves may be developed or undeveloped. In general, reserves are considered proved if commercial producability of the reservoir is supported by actual production or formation tests. Proved reserves must have facilities to process and transport those reserves to
market that are operational at the time of the estimate or a commitment or reasonable expectation to install such facilities in the future.
"PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES" means oil or gas reserves that are expected to be recovered: (i) from new wells on undrilled acreage, (ii) from deepening existing wells to a different reservoir, or (iii) where a relatively large expenditure is required to (a) recomplete an existing well or (b) install production or transportation facilities for primary or improved recovery projects.
"RECOMPLETION" refers to the completion of an existing well for production from a formation that exists behind the casing of the well.
"RETAINED INTEREST" is typically an overriding royalty interest or a working interest that is retained by the party originating a prospect or project. The working interest may take several forms such as a carried working interest and/or a back-in interest or other sharing arrangements whereby the originator earns an interest in production greater than its proportionate cost.
"REVERSIONARY WORKING INTEREST" is an interest in a well in which the party shares in neither the cost nor the revenues from production until a specific time or event in the well such as the farmee recovering the costs of drilling, completing, and production from the production revenues.
"SUBSURFACE CONTROL" refers to the data provided by wells previously drilled in the area of an exploratory prospect. Such existing subsurface data in the form of logs and cores provide a geologist with a valuable starting point in generating a prospect and serve to "control" or limit the geologist's interpretation of the subsurface strata by providing a factual starting point.
"3-D SEISMIC" means the application of powerful computer workstations and sophisticated software applied to seismic data acquired from a dense pattern of shot points to create three-dimensional displays of sub-surface formations. Extensive arrays of listening devices gather thousands of times more detail than regular seismic surveys.
"UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE" means lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
"WORKING INTEREST" means the operating interest under an oil and gas lease which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production, subject to all royalties, overriding royalties and other burdens and also subject to all costs of exploration, development and operations and risks associated therewith.
ITEM 3.