Item 2. Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our operations:
General Information about the Mines
Mining Rights and Leases. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates.
Geological Composition. All iron ore mining operations are open-pit mines that are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. At our North American Iron Ore mines, drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
The Biwabik, Negaunee, and Wabush Iron Formations are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Chert is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
All North American Coal mine operations are underground mines that are in production. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations. The Pocahontas No. 3 and Blue Creek Coal Seams are Pennsylvanian Age low ash, high quality coals.
At Koolyanobbing, an exploration program began in 2008 targeting extensions to the iron ore resource base, and regional exploration targets in the Yilgarn Mineral Field were active in 2009. At Cockatoo Island, feasibility studies have been completed for a below-sea-level eastward mine pit extension. The Stage 3 extension was reviewed by the regulators and approved in August 2008. Production at Cockatoo Island ended during 2008 due to construction on Phase 3 of the seawall, which is expected to extend production for approximately two additional years. In April 2009, an unanticipated subsidence of the seawall occurred. As a result, production from the mine has been delayed. Production is not expected to resume until the first half of 2011 once the seawall is completed.
The mineralization at the Koolyanobbing operations is predominantly hematite and goethite replacements in greenstone-hosted banded iron-formations. Individual deposits tend to be small with complex ore-waste contact relationships. The Koolyanobbing operations reserves are derived from 13 separate mineral deposits distributed over a 60-mile operating radius. The mineralization at Cockatoo Island is predominantly soft, hematite-rich sandstone that produces premium high grade, low impurity direct shipping fines.
Mineralized material at the Amapá mine is predominantly hematite occurring in weathered and leached greenstone-hosted banded iron-formation of the Archean Vila Nova Group. Variable degrees of leaching generate soft hematite mineralization suitable for either sinter feed production via crushing and gravity separation or pelletizing feed production via grinding and flotation.
In Australia, the Sonoma mine operation is an open-pit mine located in the northern section of Queensland’s Bowen Basin. A mix of high quality metallurgical coal and thermal coal is recovered from the B and C seams of the Permian Mooranbah Coal Measures.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models are then constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine design and life of mine operating schedules.
Mine Facilities and Equipment. Each of the North American Iron Ore mines has crushing, concentrating, and pelletizing facilities. There are crushing and screening facilities at Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island. North American Coal mines have preparation, processing, and load-out facilities, with the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines sharing facilities. The facilities at each site are in satisfactory condition, although they require routine capital and maintenance expenditures on an ongoing basis. Certain mine equipment generally is powered by electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline. Our share of the total cost of the property, plant and equipment, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation as of December 31, 2009, for each of the mines is set forth in the chart below.
North American Iron Ore
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in the following six North American iron ore mines from which we produced 17.1 million, 22.9 million and 21.8 million long tons of iron ore pellets in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for our account and 2.5 million, 12.3 million and 12.8 million long tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company partners of the mines:
Empire mine
The Empire mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Marquette, Michigan. The mine has been in operation since 1963. Over the past five years, the Empire mine has produced between 2.6 million and 4.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 79.0 percent of Empire, and a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal USA has retained the remaining 21 percent ownership in Empire with limited rights and obligations, which it has a unilateral right to put to us at any time subsequent to the end of 2007. This right has not been exercised. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and lease them to Empire. A subsidiary of ours leases the balance of the Empire reserves from other owners of such reserves and subleases them to Empire.
Tilden mine
The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. The Tilden mine has been in operation since 1974. Over the past five years, the Tilden mine has produced between 5.6 million and 7.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 85 percent of Tilden, with the remaining minority interest owned by U.S. Steel Canada. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. The logistical benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing. Two railroads, one of which is wholly-owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan.
Hibbing mine
The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. From the Mesabi Range, Hibbing pellets are transported by rail to a shiploading port at Superior, Wisconsin. The Hibbing mine has been in operation since 1976. Over the past five years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 1.7 million and 8.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. As a result of market conditions, Hibbing was shut down in May 2009 and is not expected to resume production until the second quarter of 2010.
We own 23.0 percent of Hibbing, ArcelorMittal USA has a 62.3 percent interest, and U.S. Steel Canada has a 14.7 percent interest. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances.
Northshore mine
The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi Iron Range. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior. Crude ore is shipped by a wholly-owned railroad from the mine to the processing and dock facilities at Silver Bay. The Northshore mine has been in continuous operation since 1990. Over the past five years, the Northshore mine has produced between 3.2 million and 5.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. We own 100 percent of the mine.
United Taconite mine
The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota. The United Taconite concentrator and pelletizing facilities are located ten miles south of the mine, near the town of Forbes, Minnesota. United Taconite pellets are shipped by railroad to the port of Duluth, Minnesota. The mine has been operating since 1965. Over the past five years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 3.8 million and 5.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
In 2008, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 30 percent interest in United Taconite.
Wabush mine
The Wabush mine and concentrator are located in Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland, and the pellet plant and dock facility is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. At the Wabush mine, concentrates are shipped by rail from the Scully mine at Wabush to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel within Canada, to the United States and other international destinations. Additionally, concentrates may be shipped directly from Pointe Noire for sinter feed. The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. Over the past five years, the Wabush mine has produced between 2.7 million and 4.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 26.8 percent of Wabush. However, on October 12, 2009, we exercised our right of first refusal to acquire the remaining interest in Wabush, including U.S. Steel Canada’s 44.6 percent interest and ArcelorMittal Dofasco’s 28.6 percent interest. Ownership transfer to Cliffs was completed on February 1, 2010.
North American Coal
We directly own and operate the following two North American coal mining complexes from which we produced a total of 1.7 million, 3.5 million and 1.1 million short tons of coal in North America in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing our volume since the acquisition of PinnOak on July 31, 2007:
Pinnacle Complex
The Pinnacle Complex includes the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines and is located approximately 30 miles southwest of Beckley, West Virginia. The Pinnacle mine has been in operation since 1969. Over the past five years, the Pinnacle mine has produced between 0.7 million and 2.5 million tons of coal annually. The Green Ridge mines have been in operation since 2004 and have produced between 0.2 million and 0.5 million tons of coal annually. One of the Green Ridge mines will be closed permanently beginning in February 2010 due to exhaustion of the economic reserves at the mine.
Oak Grove mine
The Oak Grove mine is located approximately 25 miles southwest of Birmingham, Alabama. The mine has been in operation since 1972. Over the past five years, the Oak Grove mine has produced between 0.9 million and 1.7 million tons of coal annually.
Our coal production at each mine is shipped within the U.S. by rail or barge. Coal for international customers is shipped through the port of Mobile, Alabama or Newport News, Virginia.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
In Australia, we own and operate interests in the following two Asia Pacific iron ore mines from which we produced 8.3 million tonnes, 7.7 million tonnes and 8.4 million tonnes in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively:
Koolyanobbing
The Koolyanobbing operations are located 250 miles east of Perth and approximately 30 miles northeast of the town of Southern Cross. Koolyanobbing produces lump and fines iron ore. An expansion program was completed in 2006 to increase capacity from six to eight million tonnes per annum. The expansion was primarily driven by the development of iron ore resources at Mount Jackson and Windarling, located 50 miles and 60 miles north of the existing Koolyanobbing operations, respectively. Over the past five years, the Koolyanobbing operation has produced between 5.8 million and 8.3 million tonnes annually.
All of the ore mined at the Koolyanobbing operations is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, 350 miles to the south for shipment to Asian customers. In 2009, Asia Pacific Iron Ore completed an upgrade of the rail line used for its operations. The upgrade was performed to mitigate the risk of derailment and reduce service disruptions by providing a more robust infrastructure. The improvements included the replacement of 75 miles of rail and associated parts. We spent a total of approximately $45 million in 2009 and 2008 related to maintenance and improvements to the rail structure.
Cockatoo Island
The Cockatoo Island operation is located four miles to the west of Yampi Peninsula, in the Buccaneer Archipelago, and 90 miles north of Derby in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The island has been mined for iron ore since 1951, with a break in operations between 1985 and 1993. During the past five years, Cockatoo Island has ranged from no production to 1.4 million tonnes annually. No ore was mined in 2009 due to subsidence of the seawall and no production is expected in 2010.
We own a 50 percent interest in this joint venture to mine remnant iron ore deposits. Mining from this phase of the operation commenced in late 2000. Production at Cockatoo Island ended during 2008 due to construction on Phase 3 of the seawall, which is expected to extend production for approximately two additional years. In April 2009, an unanticipated subsidence of the seawall occurred. As a result, production from the mine has been
delayed. Production is not expected to resume until the first half of 2011 once the seawall is completed. Ore is hauled by haul truck to the stockpiles, crushed and screened and then transferred by conveyor to the shiploader. Direct ship premium fines mined at Cockatoo Island are then loaded at a local dock.
Mine Capacity and Mineral Reserves
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating mineral reserves. The procedures include the calculation of mineral reserves at each mine by professional mining engineers and geologists. Management compiles and reviews the calculations, and once finalized, such information is used to prepare the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports. The disclosures are reviewed and approved by management, including our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and mineral reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to mineral reserve estimates, other than those due to production, are adequately documented and submitted to our President and Chief Executive Officer for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and mineral reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings.
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Standard Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted and produced at the time of the reserve determination. All reserves are classified as proven or probable and are supported by life-of-mine plans.
Iron Ore Reserves
Ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2009 were estimated from fully-designed open pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. These fully designed pits incorporate design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates. The iron ore prices utilized for reserve estimation are derived from 3-year trailing averages of regional benchmark pricing. For North American Iron Ore operations, prices are based on iron ore pellets delivered to the Lower Great Lakes, and for operations in Asia Pacific, iron ore prices represent the 3-year trailing average of international benchmark pricing for the products generated by our Asia Pacific Iron Ore business unit (sinter fines, lump ore). We evaluate and analyze iron ore reserve estimates every three years in accordance with our mineral reserve policy or earlier if conditions merit. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, iron ore prices vary based on the date of the last reserve analysis. The table below identifies the reserve analysis date and the respective 3-year trailing price for each of our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2009.
(1) Pricing in North America reflects US$ per long tons of pellets FOB port, except for Empire and Tilden, which are FOB mine. Pricing in Asia Pacific reflects US$ per product dry metric ton iron unit.
(2) The decision was made to exclude anomolous 2008 Benchmark Pricing from the 3-year trailing average price used in determining our North American Iron Ore reserve estimates. Therefore, the 3-year trailing average for the 2009 reserve analysis reflects 2005-2007 prices.
The following tables reflect expected current annual capacity and economic ore reserves for our North American and Asia Pacific iron ore mines as of December 31, 2009. Ore reserves for Amapá, in which we have a 30 percent ownership interest, have not been estimated by Cliffs. The ore reserve estimation process is controlled and managed by Anglo as the parent company and mine operator. Sufficient technical data on the processing of Amapá mineralized material does not exist at this time, precluding estimation of recoverable product and grade, and therefore economic reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7. However, Anglo has indicated that exploration drilling to date has resulted in a currently declared resource size of 207 million tonnes based on measured, indicated and inferred resources.
North American Iron Ore
(1) Tons are long tons of 2,240 pounds.
(2) Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves based on life of mine operating schedules.
In 2009, there were no changes in reserve estimates at Tilden, Hibbing Taconite, United Taconite, or Wabush except for production.
New economic reserve analyses were performed at Empire and Northshore in 2009. Each of the new reserve analyses incorporate updates to both iron ore pellet pricing and operating costs. Changes in the reserve estimates are as follows:
•
Empire - Pellet reserves are decreased by 18 million tons net of 2009 production. The reserves have decreased due to the postponement of a multi-year development project that can not be economically justified in the present market conditions.
•
Northshore - Pellet reserves are increased by 16 million tons net of 2009 production. The increased reserves are the result of improved mine pit designs.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
(2) Reported ore reserves restricted to proven and probable tonnages based on life of mine operating schedules. 3.5 million tonnes of the Koolyanobbing reserves are sourced from current stockpiles.
(3) Rail and plant upgrades in 2009 increase the annual capacity to 8.5 million tonnes.
(4) Asia Pacific Iron Ore has a 50% interest in the Cockatoo Island joint venture. Reserves reported at 100% and represent the Stage 3 Seawall extension project area.
Net of 2009 production, Koolyanobbing ore reserves have increased by 3 million tonnes. The increase is from the addition of newly discovered resources and mine planning optimization.
During 2009, construction of a Stage 3 extension of the seawall embankment continued at Cockatoo Island, which will provide access to an additional 2.3 million tonnes of premium high grade iron ore fines for the joint venture. However, production from the mine has been delayed due to subsidence of the seawall in April 2009. Production is not expected to resume until the first half of 2011 once the seawall is completed. This extension is expected to extend production for approximately two years.
Coal Reserves
North American Coal
Coal reserve estimates for our North American underground coal mines as of December 31, 2009 were estimated using three-dimensional modeling techniques, coupled with mine plan designs. A complete re-estimation of the moist, recoverable coal reserves was completed subsequent to the 2007 acquisition and was updated most recently in 2009. Coal pricing for the North American Coal reserve estimate in 2009 was $85 per ton FOB mine based upon a 3-year trailing average.
The following table reflects expected current annual capacities and economically recoverable reserves for our North American coal mines as of December 31, 2009.
(1) Short tons of 2,000 pounds.
(2) All coal extracted by underground mining using longwall and continuous miner equipment.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
The North American recoverable coal reserves have decreased 12 million tons net of 2009 production. The decrease is mainly attributed to lower mine face to product yield reconciliations compared to the previous estimate.
All recoverable coal reserves at our North American operations are high quality, low volatile, metallurgical grade coal. The following table presents the coal quality at our North American coal mines.
(1) In millions of short tons of 2,000 pounds.
Asia Pacific Coal
The coal reserve estimate for our Asia Pacific coal mine as of December 31, 2009 is based on a JORC-compliant resource estimate. An optimized pit design for an initial 10-year mine operating schedule was generated supporting the reserve estimate. Coal pricing for the reserve estimate is based upon international benchmark pricing for our Sonoma joint venture at the time of investment in 2007, which was $71 per tonne FOB port for the range of products generated at Sonoma.
The following table reflects expected current annual capacity and economically recoverable reserves for Sonoma:
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place coal at 8 percent moisture, recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs Natural Resources has an effective 45 percent interest in the joint venture.
(2) All coal is extracted by conventional surface mining techniques.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
An update to the Sonoma resource model and economic reserve estimate is scheduled for 2010.
Sonoma’s recoverable coal reserves are primarily metallurgical grade coal (standard coking coal plus low volatile coal for pulverized coal injection) with lesser steam coal. Sonoma coal quality is presented in the following table.
(1) In million of metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place coal at 8 percent moisture, recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100% basis. Cliffs Natural Resources has an effective 45 percent interest in the joint venture.
(2) Sonoma steam coal recoverable reserves meet US compliance standards as defined by Phase II of the Clean Air Act as coal having sulfur dioxide content of 1.2 pounds or less per million Btu.
Item 3.