Item 2. Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our operations:
General Information about the Mines
Mining Rights and Leases. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates.
Geological Composition. All iron ore mining operations are open-pit mines that are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. At our North American Iron Ore mines, drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
The Biwabik, Negaunee, and Wabush Iron Formations are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Chert is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
North American Coal mine operations consist of both underground and surface mines that are in production. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations. Coal seams mined at all of our North American Coal operations are Pennsylvanian Age. The seams include the Pocahontas No. 3 and No. 4 seams at the Pinnacle Complex and the Blue Creek Seam at Oak Grove that produce high quality, low ash metallurgical products, while multiple seams are mined at CLCC’s underground and surface mines producing both metallurgical and thermal products.
At Koolyanobbing, an ongoing exploration program targeting extensions to the iron ore resource base including regional exploration targets in the Yilgarn Mineral Field was active in 2010. The mineralization at the Koolyanobbing operations is predominantly hematite and goethite replacements in greenstone-hosted banded iron-formations. Individual deposits tend to be small with complex ore-waste contact relationships. The Koolyanobbing operations reserves are derived from 15 separate mineral deposits distributed over a 70-mile operating radius.
At Cockatoo Island, production recommenced in 2010 following the completion of the Stage 3 seawall embankment. The mineralization at Cockatoo Island is predominantly soft, hematite-rich sandstone that produces premium high grade, low impurity direct shipping fines.
Mineralized material at the Amapá mine is predominantly hematite occurring in weathered and leached greenstone-hosted banded iron-formation of the Archean Vila Nova Group. Variable degrees of leaching generate soft hematite mineralization suitable for either sinter feed production via crushing and gravity separation or pelletizing feed production via grinding and flotation.
In Australia, the Sonoma mine operation is an open-pit mine located in the northern section of Queensland’s Bowen Basin. A mix of high quality metallurgical coal and thermal coal is recovered from the B and C seams of the Permian Mooranbah Coal Measures.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models for iron ore and stratigraphic models for coal are constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine design and life of mine operating schedules.
Mine Facilities and Equipment. Each of the North American Iron Ore mines has crushing, concentrating, and pelletizing facilities. There are crushing and screening facilities at Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island. Amapá has crushing and concentrating facilities. North American Coal mines have preparation, processing, and load-out facilities, with the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines sharing facilities and the Dingess-Chilton, Powellton, and Toney Fork mines, acquired in the acquisition of CLCC, sharing facilities. The facilities at each site are in satisfactory condition, although they require routine capital and maintenance expenditures on an ongoing basis. Certain mine equipment generally is powered by electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline. Our share of the total cost of the property, plant and equipment, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation as of December 31, 2010, for each of the mines is set forth in the chart below.
North American Iron Ore
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in the following six North American iron ore mines from which we produced 25.4 million, 17.1 million and 22.9 million long tons of iron ore pellets in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for our account and 6.6 million, 2.5 million and 12.3 million long tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company partners of the mines:
Empire mine
The Empire mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Marquette, Michigan. The mine has been in operation since 1963. Over the past five years, the Empire mine has produced between 2.6 million and 4.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 79.0 percent of Empire, and a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal USA has retained the remaining 21 percent ownership in Empire with limited rights and obligations, which it has a unilateral right to put to us at any time subsequent to the end of 2007. This right has not been exercised. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and lease them to Empire. A subsidiary of ours leases the balance of the Empire reserves from other owners of such reserves and subleases them to Empire.
Tilden mine
The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. The Tilden mine has been in operation since 1974. Over the past five years, the Tilden mine has produced between 5.6 million and 9.0 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 85 percent of Tilden, with the remaining minority interest owned by U.S. Steel Canada. Each member takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the operating agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. The logistical benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing. Two railroads, one of which is wholly-owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan.
In the third quarter of 2010, an expansion project was approved at our Empire and Tilden mines for capital investments on equipment. The expansion project is expected to allow the Empire mine to produce at three million tons annually through 2014 and increase Tilden mine production by an additional two million tons annually.
Hibbing mine
The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. From the Mesabi Range, Hibbing pellets are transported by rail to a shiploading port at Superior, Wisconsin. The Hibbing mine has been in operation since 1976. Over the past five years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 1.7 million and 8.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. Hibbing resumed production during the second quarter of 2010, after being shut down as a result of market conditions in May of 2009.
We own 23.0 percent of Hibbing, ArcelorMittal USA has a 62.3 percent interest, and U.S. Steel Canada has a 14.7 percent interest. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances.
Northshore mine
The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi Iron Range. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in
Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior. Crude ore is shipped by a wholly-owned railroad from the mine to the processing and dock facilities at Silver Bay. The Northshore mine has been in continuous operation since 1990. Over the past five years, the Northshore mine has produced between 3.2 million and 5.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. We own 100 percent of the mine.
United Taconite mine
The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota. The United Taconite concentrator and pelletizing facilities are located ten miles south of the mine, near the town of Forbes, Minnesota. United Taconite pellets are shipped by railroad to the port of Duluth, Minnesota. The mine has been operating since 1965. Over the past five years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 3.8 million and 5.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
As a result of acquiring the remaining 30 percent interest in the United Taconite mine during 2008, we now own 100 percent of the mine.
Wabush mine
The Wabush mine and concentrator are located in Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland, and the pellet plant and dock facility is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. At the Wabush mine, concentrates are shipped by rail from the Scully mine at Wabush to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel within Canada, to the United States and other international destinations. The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. Over the past five years, the Wabush mine has produced between 2.7 million and 4.6 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. On February 1, 2010, we acquired U.S. Steel Canada’s 44.6 percent interest and ArcelorMittal Dofasco’s 28.6 percent interest in Wabush, thereby increasing our ownership interest in Wabush from 26.8 percent as of December 31, 2009 to 100 percent as of December 31, 2010.
North American Coal
We directly own and operate the following three North American coal mining complexes from which we produced a total of 3.2 million, 1.7 million and 3.5 million short tons of coal in North America in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing our volume since the acquisition of PinnOak on July 31, 2007 and CLCC on July 30, 2010:
Pinnacle Complex
The Pinnacle Complex includes the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines and is located approximately 30 miles southwest of Beckley, West Virginia. The Pinnacle mine has been in operation since 1969. Over the past five years, the Pinnacle mine has produced between 0.7 million and 2.5 million tons of coal annually. The Green Ridge mines have been in operation since 2004 and have produced between 0.1 million and 0.5 million tons of coal annually. In February 2010, the Green Ridge No. 1 mine was closed permanently due to exhaustion of the economic reserves at the mine. In addition, the Green Ridge No. 2 mine was idled throughout 2010, with production recommencing in January 2011.
Oak Grove mine
The Oak Grove mine is located approximately 25 miles southwest of Birmingham, Alabama. The mine has been in operation since 1972. Over the past five years, the Oak Grove mine has produced between 0.9 million and 1.4 million tons of coal annually.
CLCC
CLCC comprises a metallurgical and thermal coal mining complex with a state-of-the-art coal preparation and processing facility located within the Boone, Logan, and Wyoming counties in southern West Virginia. The operations include two underground metallurgical coal mines, the Powellton and Chilton-Dingess mines, and one open surface thermal coal mine, the Toney Fork No. 2 mine. The Powellton and Chilton-Dingess mines have been in operation since 2008. Over the past three years, the Powellton mine has produced between 0.1 million and 0.6 million tons of coal annually and the Chilton-Dingess mine production has ranged from no production to 0.5 million tons of coal annually due to the ramp up to full production. The Toney Fork No. 2 mine has been in operation since 2005. Over the three-year period that INR owned and operated the mine, Toney Fork No. 2 produced between 1.2 million and 1.5 million tons of coal annually.
Our coal production at each of the North American Coal mines is shipped within the U.S. by rail or barge. Coal for international customers is shipped through the port of Convent, Louisiana, Mobile, Alabama or Newport News, Virginia.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
In Australia, we own and operate interests in the following two Asia Pacific iron ore mines from which we produced 9.3 million metric tons, 8.3 million metric tons and 7.7 million metric tons in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively:
Koolyanobbing
The Koolyanobbing operations are located 250 miles east of Perth and approximately 30 miles northeast of the town of Southern Cross. Koolyanobbing produces lump and fines iron ore. An expansion program was completed in 2006 to increase capacity from six to eight million metric tons per annum. The expansion was primarily driven by the development of iron ore resources at Mount Jackson and Windarling, located 50 miles and 60 miles north of the existing Koolyanobbing operations, respectively. In December 2010, we received regulatory approvals to further develop the Mount Jackson J1 deposit. In September 2010, our Board of Directors approved a capital project at our Koolyanobbing Operation that is expected to increase production output at Koolyanobbing to approximately 11 million metric tons annually. The expansion project requires a capital investment of $254 million, of which $22.4 million has been spent as of December 31, 2010. The Mount Jackson J1 deposit project is expected to contribute to our ability to increase production output. These improvements are expected to be fully implemented by the second half of 2012. Over the past five years, the Koolyanobbing operation has produced between 6.9 million and 8.9 million metric tons annually.
All of the ore mined at the Koolyanobbing operations is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, approximately 360 miles to the south for shipment to Asian customers. In 2009, Asia Pacific Iron Ore completed an upgrade of the rail line used for its operations. The upgrade was performed to mitigate the risk of derailment and reduce service disruptions by providing a more robust infrastructure. The improvements included the replacement of 75 miles of rail and associated parts. We spent a total of approximately $45 million in 2009 and 2008 related to maintenance and improvements to the rail structure. An additional $11.0 million was spent during 2010 on the second phase of the improvements, which included the upgrade of an additional 15 miles of rail. As discussed above, a capital project at our Koolyanobbing operation has been approved and is expected to further enhance the existing rail infrastructure.
Cockatoo Island
The Cockatoo Island operation is located four miles to the west of Yampi Peninsula, in the Buccaneer Archipelago, and 90 miles north of Derby in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The island has been mined for iron ore since 1951, with a break in operations between 1985 and 1993. During the past five years, Cockatoo Island has ranged from no production to 1.4 million metric tons annually.
We own a 50 percent interest in this joint venture to mine remnant iron ore deposits. Mining from this phase of the operation commenced in late 2000. Production at Cockatoo Island ended during 2008 due to construction on Phase 3 of the seawall, which is expected to extend production for approximately two additional years. In April 2009, an unanticipated subsidence of the seawall occurred and as a result, production from the mine was delayed. Production at Cockatoo Island resumed earlier than expected, resulting in the production of 0.7 million
metric tons in the second half of 2010. Ore is hauled by haul truck to the stockpiles, crushed and screened and then transferred by conveyor to the shiploader where the ore is loaded onto ships for export to customers in Asia.
Mine Capacity and Mineral Reserves
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating mineral reserves. The procedures include the calculation of mineral reserves at each mine by professional mining engineers and geologists. Management compiles and reviews the calculations, and once finalized, such information is used to prepare the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports. The disclosures are reviewed and approved by management, including our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and mineral reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to mineral reserve estimates, other than those due to production, are adequately documented and submitted to our Chief Executive Officer for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and mineral reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings.
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Standard Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted and produced at the time of the reserve determination. All reserves are classified as proven or probable and are supported by life-of-mine plans.
Iron Ore Reserves
Ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2010 were estimated from fully-designed open pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. These fully designed pits incorporate design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates. The iron ore prices utilized for reserve estimation are derived from three-year trailing averages of regional benchmark pricing. For North American Iron Ore operations, prices are based on iron ore pellets delivered to the Lower Great Lakes, and for operations in Asia Pacific, iron ore prices represent the three-year trailing average of international benchmark pricing for the products generated by our Asia Pacific Iron Ore business unit (sinter fines, lump ore). We evaluate and analyze iron ore reserve estimates every three years in accordance with our mineral reserve policy or earlier if conditions merit. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, iron ore prices vary based on the date of the last reserve analysis. The table below identifies the reserve analysis date and the respective three-year trailing price for each of our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2010.
(1) Pricing in North America reflects US$ per long tons of pellets F.O.B. port, except for Empire and Tilden, which are F.O.B. mine. Pricing in Asia Pacific reflects US$ per product dry metric ton iron unit.
(2) The decision was made to exclude anomolous 2008 Benchmark Pricing from the three-year trailing average price used in determining our North American Iron Ore reserve estimates. Therefore, the three-year trailing average for the 2009 reserve analysis reflects 2005-2007 prices and the 2010 reserve analysis reflects 2006-2009 prices, exluding 2008.
The following tables reflect expected current annual capacity and economic ore reserves for our North American and Asia Pacific iron ore mines as of December 31, 2010. Ore reserves for Amapá, in which we have a 30 percent ownership interest, have not been estimated by Cliffs. The ore reserve estimation process is controlled and managed by Anglo as the parent company and mine operator. Sufficient technical data on the processing of Amapá mineralized material does not exist at this time, precluding estimation of recoverable product and grade, and therefore economic reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7. An economic ore reserve estimate is anticipated to be available in 2011 from Anglo.
North American Iron Ore
(1) Tons are long tons of 2,240 pounds.
(2) Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves based on life-of-mine operating schedules.
(3) Capacity at Northshore increased to 6.0 million tons of combined pellet and concentrate capacity in 2010 by reactivating idle concentrator capacity.
In 2010, there were no changes in reserve estimates at Empire, Tilden, Hibbing Taconite, or Northshore except for production.
New economic reserve analyses were performed at United Taconite and Wabush in 2010. Each of the new reserve analyses incorporate updates to both iron ore pellet pricing and operating costs. Changes in the reserve estimates are as follows:
•
United Taconite - Pellet reserves increased by 0.9 million tons net of 2010 production. The reserves increased due to improved mine pit designs and recovery realizations.
•
Wabush - Pellet reserves increased by 2.7 million tons net of 2010 production. The increased reserves are the result of a new resource model and realigned business and marketing plan.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
(2) Reported ore reserves restricted to proven and probable tonnages based on life of mine operating schedules. 0.9 million metric tons of the Koolyanobbing reserves are sourced from current stockpiles.
(3) Rail and plant upgrades in 2009 increased the annual capacity to 8.5 million metric tons .
(4) Asia Pacific Iron Ore has a 50% interest in the Cockatoo Island joint venture. Reserves reported at 100% and represent the Stage 3 Seawall extension project area.
Net of 2010 production, Koolyanobbing ore reserves increased by 23 million metric tons. The increase is attributable to the addition of newly discovered resources and mine planning optimization.
During 2010, construction of a Stage 3 extension of the seawall embankment was completed. Production recommenced in 2010 following completion of the seawall. This extension is expected to extend production for approximately two years.
Coal Reserves
North American Coal
Coal reserve estimates for our North American underground and surface coal mines as of December 31, 2010 were estimated using three-dimensional modeling techniques, coupled with mine plan designs. Coal pricing for the North American Coal reserve estimates utilized $85 per ton F.O.B. mine based upon a three-year trailing average from 2006 to 2008. We will generate a new coal reserve estimate for CLCC in 2011. The Pinnacle and Oak Grove coal reserves have not changed net of 2010 mine production.
The following table reflects expected current annual capacities and economically recoverable reserves for our North American coal mines as of December 31, 2010.
(1) Short tons of 2,000 pounds.
(2) All coal extracted by underground mining using longwall and continuous miner equipment except for Cliffs Logan County Coal Surface which is mined by contour and highwall mining methods.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
The North American recoverable coal reserves increased 121 million tons net of 2010 production due to the acquisition of CLCC in 2010.
The recoverable coal reserves at our North American operations consist of both high quality, low and high volatile, metallurgical grade coal and thermal coal. The following table presents the coal quality at our North American coal mines:
(1) In millions of short tons of 2,000 pounds.
(2) Cliffs Logan County Coal’s thermal recoverable reserves do not meet U.S. compliance standards as defined by Phase II of the Clean Air Act as coal having sulfur dioxide content of 1.2 pounds or less per million Btu.
Asia Pacific Coal
The coal reserve estimate for our Asia Pacific coal mine as of December 31, 2010 is based on a JORC-compliant resource estimate. An optimized pit design for an initial 10-year mine operating schedule was generated supporting the reserve estimate. Coal pricing for the reserve estimate is based upon international benchmark pricing for our Sonoma joint venture at the time of investment in 2007, which was $71 per metric ton F.O.B. port for the range of products generated at Sonoma.
The following table reflects expected current annual capacity and economically recoverable reserves for Sonoma:
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place coal at 8 percent moisture, recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs has an effective 45 percent interest in the joint venture.
(2) All coal is extracted by conventional surface mining techniques.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
Sonoma’s recoverable coal reserves are primarily metallurgical grade coal (standard coking coal plus low volatile coal for pulverized coal injection) with lesser steam coal. Sonoma coal quality is presented in the following table.
(1) In million of metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place coal at 8 percent moisture, recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100% basis. Cliffs has an effective 45 percent interest in the joint venture.
(2) Sonoma thermal coal recoverable reserves meet U.S. compliance standards as defined by Phase II of the Clean Air Act as coal having sulfur dioxide content of 1.2 pounds or less per million Btu.
Item 3.