Item 2. Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our North American mines:
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in the following six North American iron ore mines:
Empire Mine
The Empire mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Marquette, Michigan and is accessed via a paved road off State Highway 35. The mine has been in operation since 1963. Over the past five years, the Empire mine has produced between 3.6 million and 5.4 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We entered into an agreement with Ispat effective December 31, 2002, that restructured the ownership of the Empire mine and increased our ownership from 46.7 percent to 79 percent in exchange for assumption of all mine liabilities. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired the 25 percent interest rejected by LTV Corporation in its chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and a 19 percent interest from Ispat. We indemnified Ispat from obligations of Empire in exchange for certain future payments to Empire and to us by Ispat of $120.0 million, recorded at a present value of $54.9 million at December 31, 2006 ($59.8 million at December 31, 2005) with $42.9 million classified as Long-term receivable with the balance current, over the 12-year life of the supply agreement. A subsidiary of Mittal Steel USA has retained a 21 percent ownership in Empire, which it has a unilateral right to put to us at the end of 2007. We are the sole outside supplier of pellets purchased under the Ispat agreement, assumed by Mittal Steel USA, for the term of the supply agreement. We manage the mine. We and Mittal Steel USA take our respective share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and lease them to Empire. The Empire mine leases the balance of its reserves from the other owners of such reserves.
Tilden Mine
The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. The main entrance to the Tilden mine is accessed by means of a paved road off of County Road 476. The Tilden mine has been in operation since 1974. Over the past five years, the Tilden mine has produced between 6.9 million and 7.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
On January 31, 2002, we increased our ownership of the Tilden mine to 85 percent by acquiring Algoma’s 45 percent interest in the mine for assumption of mine liabilities and executed a term supply agreement under which we are Algoma’s sole supplier of iron ore pellets for 15 years. The acquisition increased our share of annual production capacity by 3.5 million tons. Currently, we manage the mine and have an 85 percent interest and Stelco has a 15 percent interest in the mine. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. The increase in ownership of our Michigan mines facilitated consolidation of operations and management, which offer operational and cost benefits that were not achievable under the previous ownership structure. These benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing.
Hibbing Mine
The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. The main entrance to the Hibbing mine is accessed by means of a paved road and is located off County Road 5. The Hibbing mine has been in operation since 1976. Over the past five years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 7.7 million and 8.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
In July 2002, we acquired (effective retroactive to January 1, 2002) an eight percent interest in Hibbing from Bethlehem for the assumption of mine liabilities associated with the interest. The acquisition increased our ownership of Hibbing from 15 percent to 23 percent. This transaction reduced Bethlehem’s ownership interest in Hibbing to 62.3 percent. In October 2001, Bethlehem filed for protection under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. At the time of the filing, we had a trade receivable of $1.0 million, which has been written off. In May 2003, ISG purchased the assets of Bethlehem, including Bethlehem’s 62.3 percent interest in Hibbing. We manage the mine. Mittal Steel USA, which acquired ISG, has a 62.3 percent interest and Stelco has a 14.7 percent interest in the mine. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances.
Northshore Mine
The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi Iron Range. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in
Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior, on U.S. Highway 61. The main entrance to the Northshore mine is accessed by means of a gravel road and is located off County Road 20. The Northshore mine has been in continuous operation since 1990. Over the past five years, the Northshore mine has produced between 4.2 million and 5.1 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. We own 100 percent of the mine.
United Taconite
The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota, west of U.S. Highway 53. The main entrance to the United Taconite mine is accessed by means of a paved road and is located off Route 37. The mine has been operating since 1965. Over the past five years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 1.6 million and 4.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
Effective December 1, 2003, United Taconite purchased the ore mining and pelletizing assets of Eveleth Mines. Eveleth Mines had ceased mining operations in May 2003 after filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on May 1, 2003. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, United Taconite purchased all of Eveleth Mines’ assets for $3 million in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities, primarily mine closure-related environmental obligations. As a result of this transaction, we, after assigning appropriate values to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, recorded an extraordinary gain of $2.2 million, net of $.5 million tax and $1.2 million minority interest. In conjunction with this transaction, we and our Wabush Mines venture partners entered into pellet sales and trade agreements with Laiwu to optimize shipping efficiency. We manage the mine and hold a 70 percent interest; Laiwu holds a 30 percent interest. Sales to Laiwu under these contracts totaled .1 million tons and .3 million tons in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Wabush Mines
The Wabush mine and concentrator is located in Wabush, Labrador, Canada, and the pellet plant is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. The main entrance to the Wabush mine is accessed by means of a paved road and is located on Highway 530, about three miles west of the town of Wabush. The pellet plant is accessed by a paved road off Highway 138, about ten miles west of the town of Sept-Iles, Quebec. The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. Over the past five years, Wabush has produced between 3.8 million and 5.2 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
In 1997, we acquired Ispat’s interest in the Wabush mine. In August 2002, we acquired our proportionate share (approximately 4.05 percent) of the 15.09 percent interest rejected by Acme in its bankruptcy proceedings. As a result of these two events, we increased our ownership in the mine from 7.7 percent to 26.83 percent. Acme had discontinued funding its Wabush obligations in August 2001. We also manage the mine. Stelco has a 44.6 percent interest and Dofasco has a 28.6 percent interest in the mine. Wabush successfully completed actions that increased annual pellet production to a 4.9 million ton rate by the end of 2006. Additionally, a C$1.4 million project was approved in 2006 to install a manganese reduction test circuit on one processing line in the Wabush concentrator. Successful operations of the test circuit could lead to the installation of manganese reduction on all Wabush processing lines. The capability to remove manganese from crude ore could allow the processing of ores previously classified as waste and potentially extend the life of the mine. Production for 2007 is estimated at 4.8 million tons of pellets.
The following map shows the locations of our Australia mines:
Koolyanobbing
The Koolyanobbing operations are located 425 kilometers east of Perth and approximately 50 kilometers northeast of the town of Southern Cross. Koolyanobbing produces lump and fine iron ore. A capacity expansion program was completed in 2006 to increase capacity from six to eight million tonnes per annum. The expansion was primarily driven by the development of iron ore resources at Mt. Jackson and Windarling, located 80 kilometers and 100 kilometers north of the existing Koolyanobbing operations, respectively. Over the past five years, the Koolyanobbing operation has produced between 4.1 million and 6.9 million tonnes annually.
Cockatoo Island
The Cockatoo Island operation is located six kilometers to the west of Yampi Peninsula, in the Buccaneer Archipelago, and 140 kilometers north of Derby in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The island has been mined for iron ore since 1951, with a break in operations between 1985 and 1993. Over the past five years, Cockatoo Island has produced between .3 million and 1.5 million tonnes annually at the 100 percent ownership level.
Portman commenced a beneficiation project in 1993 that was completed in mid-2000. Portman and HWE then formed a 50:50 joint venture to mine remnant iron ore deposits on mining tenements held by BHP and mined by BHP from 1951 to 1985. HWE’s interest in the operations was acquired out of receivership by Leighton in early 2006. Mining from this phase of the operation commenced in late 2000 and is expected to continue, based on current reserves, until late 2007. Studies are underway evaluating the technical and economic feasibility of developing a below-sea-level eastward resource extension of the Cockatoo deposit. Ore is hauled by haul truck to the stockpiles, crushed and screened and then transferred by conveyor to the shiploader.
Transportation
Two railroads, one of which is wholly owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan. From the Mesabi Range, Hibbing pellets are transported by rail to a shiploading port at Superior, Wisconsin. United Taconite pellets are shipped by railroad to the port of Duluth, Minnesota. At Northshore, crude ore is shipped by a wholly owned railroad from the mine to processing and dock facilities at Silver Bay, Minnesota. In Canada, there is an open-pit mine and concentrator at Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland and a pellet plant and dock facility at Pointe Noire, Quebec. At the Wabush mine, concentrates are shipped by rail from the Scully mine at Wabush to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel to Canada, the United States and other international destinations or shipped as concentrates for sinter feed.
All of the ore mined at the Koolyanobbing operations is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, 575 kilometers to the south for shipment to Asian customers. Direct ship premium fines mined at Cockatoo Island are loaded at a local dock.
Internal Control over Reserve Estimation
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating ore reserves. The procedures include the calculation of ore reserves at each mine by mining engineers and geologists under the direction of our Chief Mining Engineer and Chief Long Range Planning Engineer. Our General Manager-Resource Analysis and Engineering compiles, reviews, and submits the calculations to the Corporate Accounting department, where the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports are prepared based on those calculations. The draft disclosure is submitted to our General Manager-Resource Analysis and Engineering for further review and approval. The draft disclosures are then reviewed and approved by our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer before inclusion in our annual and quarterly reports. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and ore reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to ore reserve estimates, other than those due to production, are documented by our General Manager-Resource Analysis and Engineering and are submitted to our President and Chief Executive Officer for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and ore reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings.
Operations
In North America, we produced 20.8 million tons, 22.1 million tons and 21.7 million tons of pellets in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, for our account and 12.8 million tons, 13.8 million tons and 12.7 million tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company owners of the mines. In Australia, we produced 7.7 million tonnes and 5.2 million tonnes in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Portman’s 2005 total represents production since the March 31, 2005 acquisition of Portman. See Production and Sales Volume in Item 7 for further information.
Our business is subject to a number of operational factors that can affect our future profitability. A more detailed description of these risks is contained in Item 1A - Risk Factors.
Mine Capacity and Iron Ore Reserves
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Standard Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted and produced at the time of the reserve determination. The estimate of proven and probable reserves is of demonstrated tons. All reserve estimates are supported by scheduled life of mine plans.
Our 2007 ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2006 were estimated from fully-designed pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. These fully designed pits incorporate design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates. The following tables reflect expected current annual capacity and economic ore reserves for our North American and Australian iron ore mines as of December 31, 2006.
(1) Tons are long tons of pellets of 2,240 pounds.
(2) Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves based on life of mine operating schedules.
(3) We regularly evaluate our ore reserve estimates and update them as required in accordance with the SEC Industry Guide 7.
(1) Tonnes are metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
(2) Reported ore reserves restricted to proven and probable tonnages based on life of mine operating schedules. Koolyanobbing reserves can be derived from up to 15 separate mineral deposits over a 100-kilometer operating distance. 7.4 million tonnes of the Koolyanobbing reserves are sourced from current long-term stockpiles.
(3) Portman’s ore reserve estimates are regularly updated in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 and the 2004 Edition of the JORC code.
(4) An expansion project was completed in 2006 that increased annual production capacity to eight million tonnes.
(5) Portman has a 50 percent interest in the Cockatoo Island Joint Venture. Capacity and reserve totals represent 100 percent.
We directly own approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and approximately three percent of the reserves at the Hibbing mine, and lease or sublease the balance of the reserves in these mines from their owners. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine. The ore reserves at Northshore, United Taconite and Wabush are owned by others and leased or subleased directly to those mines. The Koolyanobbing operations and Cockatoo Island ore reserves are derived from Crown lands owned and managed by the Western Australia state government.
In 2006, there were no changes in reserve estimates at Empire, Hibbing, Tilden or United Taconite, except for production. A new ore reserve estimate was completed in September 2006 at Northshore, along with a new
pit design and production schedules. The updated ore reserve estimate calculated a four percent increase, or 13 million tons. The estimate included a complete remodeling of the mine geology, additional ore characterization data for improved definition of ore and waste, application of improved metallurgical grade cut-offs, updated financial inputs, ultimate pit design and life-of-mine scheduling.
The Wabush ore reserve has decreased by 3.5 million tons in addition to production. This is due to a reevaluation based on higher operating costs and pellet prices, a change in the manganese pellet production split from 60 percent low and 40 percent high manganese pellets to 40 percent low and 60 percent high, and decreasing the maximum pit depths due to water limitations. A new ore reserve base, completed during 2005, continues to be verified. The current estimate uses the ore reserve estimate generated in 2003, with no material changes occurring in the interim. This reserve has been scheduled to exhaustion to meet the 40/60 percent manganese pellet production mix and updated with current costs and pellet pricing. Final verification of the updated geological model and a complete ore reserve estimate is scheduled for 2007.
The 2006 Portman ore reserve estimates represent an increase of 7.6 million tonnes net of mine depletion. The increases reflect iron ore exploration success expanding the in-situ mineral resources at both the Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo operations as well as improved mining reconciliations with maturity of the operating pits. We are studying the use of existing technologies to beneficiate lower grade ores, which if successful, could increase the ore reserve base.
General Information about the Mines
Leases. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates.
Exploration and Development. All mining operations are open-pit mines that are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations. An exploration program targeting extensions to Portman’s known iron ore resources as well as regional exploration targets in the Yilgarn Mineral Field was active in 2006 and will continue in 2007. At Cockatoo Island, exploration drilling was completed in 2006 that successfully increased the resource base. Studies are underway evaluating the technical and economic feasibility of developing a below-sea-level eastward resource extension of the Cockatoo deposit.
The Biwabik, Negaunee, and Wabush Iron Formations are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and/or hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Chert is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals readily liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
The mineralization at the Koolyanobbing operations is predominantly hematite and goethite replacements in greenstone-hosted banded iron-formations. Individual deposits tend to be small with complex ore-waste contact relationships. The Koolyanobbing operations reserves are derived from 15 separate mineral deposits distributed over a 100-kilometer operating radius. The mineralization at Cockatoo Island is predominantly friable, hematite-rich sandstone that produces premium high grade, low impurity direct shipping fines.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models are then constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine design and life of mine operating schedules.
Mine Facilities and Equipment. Each of the North American mines has crushing, concentrating, and pelletizing facilities. There are crushing and screening facilities at Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island. The facilities at each site are in satisfactory condition, although they require routine capital and maintenance expenditures on an ongoing basis. Certain mine equipment generally is powered by electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline. The total cost of the property, plant and equipment, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation as of December 31, 2006, for each of the mines is set forth in the chart below.
(1) Includes capitalized financing costs of $9.6 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(2) Includes capitalized financing costs of $19.2 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(3) Does not reflect depreciation, which is recorded by the individual venturers.
Competition
We compete with several iron ore producers in North America, including Iron Ore Company of Canada, Quebec Cartier Mining Company and U.S. Steel, as well as other steel companies that own interests in iron ore mines that may have excess iron ore inventories. In addition, significant amounts of iron ore have, since the early 1980s, been shipped to the United States from Brazil and Venezuela in competition with iron ore produced by us.
As the North American steel industry continues to consolidate, a major focus of the consolidation is on the continued life of the integrated steel industry’s raw steelmaking operations, i.e., blast furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces that produce raw steel. Some steelmakers are importing semi-finished steel slabs as an alternative to using blast furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces to produce steel because of the costs associated with relining blast furnaces and maintaining coke ovens. These imported steel slabs can be converted and finished in the steelmaker’s downstream finishing facilities. In addition, other competitive forces have become a large factor in the iron ore business. Electric furnaces built by mini-mills, which are steel recyclers, generally produce steel by using scrap steel, not iron ore pellets, in their electric furnaces.
Competition among the sellers of iron ore pellets is predicated upon the usual competitive factors of price, availability of supply, product performance, service and transportation cost to the consumer.
Portman exports iron ore products to China and Japan in the world seaborne trade. Portman competes with major iron ore exporters from Australia, Brazil and India.
Environment
North America
In the construction of our facilities and in their operation, substantial costs have been incurred and will continue to be incurred to avoid undue effect on the environment. Our North American capital expenditures relating to environmental matters were $10.9 million, $8.3 million and $7.3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. It is estimated that approximately $10.5 million will be spent in 2007 for capital environmental control facilities.
Various legislative bodies and federal and state agencies are continually promulgating new laws and regulations affecting us, our customers, and our suppliers in many areas, including waste discharge and disposal, hazardous classification of materials and products, air and water discharges, and many other environmental, health and safety matters. Although we believe that our environmental policies and practices are sound and do not expect that the application of any current laws or regulations would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot predict the collective adverse impact of the expanding body of laws and regulations.
The iron ore industry has been identified by the EPA as an industrial category that emits pollutants established by the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. These pollutants included over 200 substances that are now classified as hazardous air pollutants (“HAP”). The EPA is required to develop rules that would require major sources of HAP to utilize MACT standards for their emissions. Pursuant to this statutory requirement, the EPA published a final rule on October 30, 2003 imposing emission limitations and other requirements on taconite iron ore processing operations. On December 15, 2005, we and Ispat-Inland Mining Company filed a Petition to Delete as a source category regulated by Section 112 of the Clean Air Act. EPA requested additional information, and a supplement was submitted to the EPA on August 22, 2006. A response is pending.
We were in compliance with the requirements of MACT as of the October 31, 2006 deadline. Our capital expenditures in 2006 to meet the MACT standards were $4.3 million. On January 23, 2004, the National Wildlife Federation, Minnesota Conservation Federation, Lake Superior Alliance and Save Lake Superior Association filed a petition for review of the EPA’s final MACT rule in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. This petition challenges the EPA’s decision not to impose standards for mercury and asbestos and monitoring of formaldehyde from taconite indurating furnaces. We filed a petition to intervene in this case. Typically, the EPA’s consideration of a petition is an iterative process extending over several months, with a longer period for controversial subjects. Subsequently, the Court remanded to EPA the asbestos and mercury rules. The National Wildlife Federation, the Minnesota Conservation Federation and Save Lake Superior Association also voluntarily dismissed the petition with respect to the formaldehyde rules. The EPA has yet to respond to the remand.
On December 16, 2006, we submitted an administrative permit amendment application to the MPCA with respect to Northshore’s Title V operating permit. The proposed amendment requested the deletion of a 30 year old “control city” monitoring requirement which was used to assess the adequacy of air emission control equipment installed in the 1970s. MPCA had discontinued use of control city monitoring in the early 1980s, but had recently reinstituted monitoring. The control city monitoring compared ambient fiber levels in St. Paul, Minnesota to levels at Northshore and the surrounding area. The amendment application argued that the control city monitoring requirement is an obsolete and redundant standard given Northshore’s existing emission control equipment and applicable federal regulations, state rules, and permit requirements.
We have received a letter dated February 23, 2007 from the MPCA notifying us that our request for an administrative permit amendment has been denied. We have appealed the denial to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. We are also currently in negotiations with the MPCA on a compliance schedule. Subsequent to the filing of our appeal, the MPCA advised Northshore that the MPCA considered Northshore to be in violation of the control city standard. Without conceding MPCA’s allegations, we have entered into discussions with the MPCA with respect to the terms of a compliance schedule in which we would agree to take certain actions in settlement of the alleged violation. Discussions with the MPCA are currently ongoing. In addition, the Minnesota Center for Environmental Advocacy has since filed a motion with the Court of Appeals to intervene in our appeal of the denial of an administrative amendment to our Title V operating permit. If either our appeal is unsuccessful or if we are unable to negotiate an acceptable compliance schedule, Northshore could be subject to future enforcement actions with respect to its Title V permit if we are unable to meet the control city requirement as interpreted by MPCA.
Australia
Portman achieved significant progress in environmental management during 2005 and 2006. As production activity from the new operations at Mt. Jackson and Windarling consolidated, the emphasis in environmental
management shifted from control of mine establishment and construction activities to implementation and ongoing development of the Koolyanobbing Project Environmental Management System and conservation initiatives.
The key elements of a number of environmental management plans that were required under governmental approvals were consolidated into one system manual in 2005. The environmental management system was reviewed in October 2005 and determined to be on schedule to achieve certification to the ISO 14001 Standard within the following 18 months.
On May 14, 2007, the Australian Environmental Protection Authority (“AEPA”) published a study in which the AEPA recommended the establishment of “A class reserves” for the protection of certain allegedly environmentally sensitive areas of Western Australia. Some of the proposed A class reserves overlap with mining tenements granted to Portman (the “Overlapping Areas”). The AEPA study has been submitted to the Minister for the Environment and Heritage.
Portman originally received governmental approval to mine in the Overlapping Areas in June 2003. Since that time, Portman has met all applicable environmental requirements. Although we are currently reviewing the study and the effects of the designation of the Overlapping Areas as A class reserves, such categorization may have a material effect on Portman’s operations. It is unknown at this time whether the Minister for the Environment and Heritage will accept the recommendations of the AEPA. If the recommendations of the AEPA are accepted, Portman will challenge any such decision.
For additional information on our environmental matters, see Item 3.