Item 2. Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our operations:
Mine Facilities and Equipment. Each of the North American Iron Ore mines has crushing, concentrating, and pelletizing facilities. There are crushing and screening facilities at Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island. North American Coal mines have preparation, processing, and load-out facilities, with the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines sharing facilities. The facilities at each site are in satisfactory condition, although they require routine capital and maintenance expenditures on an ongoing basis. Certain mine equipment generally is powered by electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline. Our share of the total cost of the property, plant and equipment, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation as of December 31, 2008, for each of the mines is set forth in the chart below.
(1) Includes capitalized financing costs of $3.2 million, net of accumulated amortization. Our consolidated net book value related to Empire is $0 as of December 31, 2008, based upon an impairment charge recorded in 2001.
(2) Includes capitalized financing costs of $11.2 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(3) The mine is in the pre-production stage.
(4) Cockatoo Island plant and equipment is fully amortized.
(5) Includes capitalized financing costs of $0.7 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(6) Includes capitalized financing costs of $1.8 million, net of accumulated amortization.
North American Iron Ore
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in the following six North American iron ore mines:
Empire mine
The Empire mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Marquette, Michigan. The mine has been in operation since 1963. Over the past five years, the Empire mine has produced between 4.6 million and 5.4 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 79.0 percent of Empire, and a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal USA has retained the remaining 21 percent ownership in Empire with limited rights and obligations, which it has a unilateral right to put to us at any time subsequent to the end of 2007. This right has not been exercised. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and lease them to Empire. A subsidiary of ours leases the balance of the Empire reserves from other owners of such reserves and subleases them to Empire.
Tilden mine
The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. The Tilden mine has been in operation since 1974. Over the past five years, the Tilden mine has produced between 6.9 million and 7.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 85 percent of Tilden, with the remaining minority interest owned by U.S. Steel Canada. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. The logistical benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing.
Hibbing mine
The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. The Hibbing mine has been in operation since 1976. Over the past five years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 7.4 million and 8.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 23.0 percent of Hibbing, ArcelorMittal USA has a 62.3 percent interest, and U.S. Steel Canada has a 14.7 percent interest. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances.
Northshore mine
The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi Iron Range. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior. The Northshore mine has been in continuous operation since 1990. Over the past five years, the Northshore mine has produced between 4.8 million and 5.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. We own 100 percent of the mine.
United Taconite mine
The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota. The United Taconite concentrator and pelletizing facilities are located 10 miles south of the mine, near the town of Forbes, Minnesota. The mine has been operating since 1965. Over the past five years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 1.6 million and 5.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
On July 11, 2008, we signed and closed on the acquisition of the remaining 30 percent interest in United Taconite, with an effective date of July 1, 2008. Upon consummation of the purchase, our ownership interest in United Taconite increased from 70 percent to 100 percent.
Wabush mine
The Wabush mine and concentrator are located in Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland, and the pellet plant is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. Over the past five years, the Wabush mine has produced between 3.8 million and 5.2 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. We own 26.8 percent of Wabush, Dofasco has a 28.6 percent interest and U.S. Steel Canada has a 44.6 percent interest.
North American Coal
We directly own and operate the following two North American coal mining complexes:
Pinnacle Complex
The Pinnacle Complex includes the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines and is located approximately 30 miles southwest of Beckley, West Virginia. The Pinnacle mine has been in operation since 1969. Over the past five years, the Pinnacle mine has produced between 1.4 million and 2.5 million tons of coal annually. The Green Ridge mine has been in operation since 2004 and has produced between 0.3 million and 0.5 million tons of coal annually.
Oak Grove mine
The Oak Grove mine is located approximately 25 miles southwest of Birmingham, Alabama. The mine has been in operation since 1972. Over the past five years, the Oak Grove mine has produced between 1.0 million and 1.7 million tons of coal annually.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
Koolyanobbing
The Koolyanobbing operations are located 425 kilometers east of Perth and approximately 50 kilometers northeast of the town of Southern Cross. Koolyanobbing produces lump and fine iron ore. An expansion program was completed in 2006 to increase capacity from six to eight million tonnes per annum. The expansion was primarily driven by the development of iron ore resources at Mount Jackson and Windarling, located 80 kilometers and 100 kilometers north of the existing Koolyanobbing operations, respectively. Over the past five years, the Koolyanobbing operation has produced between 4.9 million and 7.6 million tonnes annually.
Cockatoo Island
The Cockatoo Island operation is located six kilometers to the west of Yampi Peninsula, in the Buccaneer Archipelago, and 140 kilometers north of Derby in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The island has been mined for iron ore since 1951, with a break in operations between 1985 and 1993. Over the past five years, Cockatoo Island has produced between 0.6 million and 1.4 million tonnes annually.
Portman commenced a beneficiation project in 1993 that was completed in mid-2000. Portman owns a 50 percent interest in this joint venture to mine remnant iron ore deposits. Mining from this phase of the operation commenced in late 2000. In 2008, Cockatoo Island production began to reduce, as the second stage of the seawall reserves were exhausted. Construction on a necessary extension of the existing seawall commenced in the third quarter 2008, with production anticipated to restart by the end of the second quarter 2009. This extension is expected to extend production for approximately two additional years, through June 2011. Ore is hauled by haul truck to the stockpiles, crushed and screened and then transferred by conveyor to the shiploader.
Transportation
North American Iron Ore
Two railroads, one of which is wholly-owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan. From the Mesabi Range, Hibbing pellets are transported by rail to a shiploading port at Superior, Wisconsin. United Taconite pellets are shipped by railroad to the port of Duluth, Minnesota. At Northshore, crude ore is shipped by a wholly-owned railroad from the mine to processing and dock facilities at Silver Bay, Minnesota. In Canada, there is an open-pit mine and concentrator at Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland and a pellet plant and dock facility at Pointe Noire, Quebec. At the Wabush mine, concentrates are shipped by rail from the Scully mine at Wabush to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel within Canada, to the United States and other international destinations or shipped as concentrates for sinter feed.
North American Coal
Our coal production is shipped within the U.S. by rail or barge. Coal for international customers is shipped through the port of Mobile, Alabama or Newport News, Virginia.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
All of the ore mined at the Koolyanobbing operations is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, 575 kilometers to the south for shipment to Asian customers. Direct ship premium fines mined at Cockatoo Island are loaded at a local dock. On July 17, 2008, Portman entered into an agreement to upgrade the rail line related to our operations in Asia Pacific. The upgrade is being performed to mitigate the risk of derailment and reduce service disruptions by providing a more robust infrastructure. The improvements include the replacement of 120 kilometers of rail and associated parts. As a result, we have incurred a purchase commitment of approximately $39 million for maintenance and improvements to the rail structure. The project is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter in 2010.
Internal Control Over Reserve Estimation
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating mineral reserves. The procedures include the calculation of mineral reserves at each mine by mining engineers and geologists under the direction of our Chief Mining Engineer. Our General Manager of Resource Technology compiles, reviews, and submits the calculations to the Corporate Accounting department, where the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports are prepared based on those calculations. The draft disclosure is submitted to our General Manager of Resource Technology for further review and approval. The draft disclosures are then reviewed and approved by our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer before inclusion in our annual and quarterly reports. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and mineral reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to mineral reserve estimates, other than those due to production, are documented by our General Manager of Resource Technology and are submitted to our President and Chief Executive Officer for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and mineral reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings.
Operations
In North America, we produced 22.9 million, 21.8 million and 20.8 million long tons of iron ore pellets in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for our account and 12.3 million, 12.8 million and 12.8 million long tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company owners of the mines. We also produced 3.5 million and 1.1 million short tons of coal in North America in 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing our volume since the acquisition of PinnOak on July 31, 2007. In Australia, we produced 7.7 million tonnes, 8.4 million tonnes and 7.7 million tonnes in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Production and Sales Volume included in Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information.
Our business is subject to a number of operational factors that can affect our future profitability. A more detailed description of these risks is included in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Mine Capacity and Ore Reserves
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Standard Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted and produced at the time of the reserve determination. All reserves are classified as proven or probable and are supported by life-of-mine plans.
Iron Ore Reserves
Ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2008 were estimated from fully-designed open pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. These fully designed pits incorporate design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates. The following tables reflect expected current annual capacity and economic ore reserves for our North American and Asia Pacific iron ore mines as of December 31, 2008.
North American Iron Ore
(1) Tons are long tons of 2,240 pounds.
(2) Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves based on life-of-mine operating schedules.
(3) We regularly evaluate our reserve estimates and update them in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
(4) Northshore annual capacity increased in 2008 from 4.8 million through reactivation of idled concentrating and pelletizing plant sections.
In 2008, there were no changes in reserve estimates at Northshore or United Taconite, except for production.
New economic reserve analyses were performed at Empire, Tilden, Hibbing and Wabush in 2008. Each of the new reserve analyses incorporate updates to both iron ore pellet pricing and operating costs. Changes in the reserve estimates are as follows:
•
Empire - Pellet reserves are increased by 26 million tons net of 2008 production. The increased reserves are obtained by an additional pit pushback.
•
Tilden - Pellet reserves are increased by 35 million tons net of 2008 production. The increased reserves are obtained by an additional pit pushback of the hematite main pit.
•
Hibbing - Pellet reserves are decreased by 23 million tons net of 2008 production. The decreased reserves are due to the inability of life of mine scheduling to accommodate all low recovery ores while maintaining an 8.0 million ton annual pellet production rate. The previous ore reserve estimate for Hibbing Taconite was based on a 7.8 million ton operating rate that allowed maximum utilization of these ores.
•
Wabush - Pellet reserves were increased by 40 million tons net of 2008 production. The increased reserves are obtained by optimizing manganese cut-off grades for pellet specifications and operational improvements in pit dewatering allowing for deeper pit designs.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
(2) Reported ore reserves restricted to proven and probable tonnages based on life of mine operating schedules. 6.7 million tonnes of the Koolyanobbing reserves are sourced from current stockpiles.
(3) Asia Pacific Iron Ore’s reserve estimates are regularly updated in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 and the 2004 Edition of the JORC Code.
(4) Rail and plant upgrades in 2008 increase the annual capacity to 8.2 million tonnes for 2009.
(5) Asia Pacific Iron Ore has a 50% interest in the Cockatoo Island joint venture. Reserves reported at 100% and represent the Stage 3 Seawall extension project area.
(6) The Cockatoo Stage 3 Seawall extension is scheduled for completion in July 2009 with first shipment from the restarted operation scheduled for the same month.
Net of 2008 mine depletion, Koolyanobbing ore reserves have increased by 3 million tonnes. The increase is related to mine planning optimization and conversion of inferred mineralization to indicated resources enabling their utilization in economic reserve analyses.
During 2008 the Cockatoo Island Stage 2 seawall embankment project reserves were exhausted. A Stage 3 extension of the seawall embankment commenced in 2008 which will provide access to an additional 2.3 million tonnes of premium high grade iron ore fines for the joint venture. This extension is expected to extend production for approximately two additional years, through June 2011.
Coal Reserves
North American Coal
Coal reserve estimates for our North American underground coal mines as of December 31, 2008 were estimated using three-dimensional modeling techniques, coupled with mine plan designs. A complete re-estimation of the moist, recoverable coal reserves was completed subsequent to the 2007 acquisition. The following table reflects expected current annual capacities and economically recoverable reserves for our North American coal mines as of December 31, 2008.
(1) Short tons of 2,000 pounds.
(2) All coal extracted by underground mining using longwall and continuous miner equipment.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
All recoverable coal reserves at our North American operations are high quality, low volatile, metallurgical grade coal. The following table presents the coal quality at our North American coal mines.
(1) In millions of short tons of 2,000 pounds.
Asia Pacific Coal
The coal reserve estimate for our Asia Pacific coal mine as of December 31, 2008 is based on a JORC-compliant resource estimate. An optimized pit design for an initial 10-year mine operating schedule was generated supporting the reserve estimate.
The following table reflects expected current annual capacity and economically recoverable reserves for the Sonoma Project:
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place coal at 8 percent moisture, recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs Natural Resources has an effective 45 percent interest in the joint venture.
(2) All coal is extracted by conventional surface mining techniques.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
(4) Annual capacity increased from 3.0 million tonnes with completion of coal preparation plant installations.
An increase in Sonoma coal reserves of 1 million tonnes net of 2008 production is due to updated yield assumptions from 2008 upgrades to the coal preparation plant and operating results.
The Sonoma Project’s recoverable coal reserves are primarily metallurgical grade coal (standard coking coal plus low volatile coal for pulverized coal injection) with lesser steam coal. Sonoma coal quality is presented in the following table.
(1) In million of metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place coal at 8 percent moisture, recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100% basis. Cliffs Natural Resources has an effective 45 percent interest in the Joint Venture.
(2) Sonoma steam coal recoverable reserves meet US compliance standards as defined by Phase II of the Clean Air Act as coal having sulfur dioxide content of 1.2 pounds or less per million Btu.
General Information about the Mines
Leases. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates.
Exploration and Development. All iron ore mining operations are open-pit mines that are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. At our North American Iron Ore mines, drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
The Biwabik, Negaunee, and Wabush Iron Formations are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Chert is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
All North American Coal mine operations are underground mines that are in production. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations. The Pocahontas No 3 and Blue Creek Coal Seams are Pennsylvanian Age low ash, high quality coals.
At Koolyanobbing, an exploration program targeting extensions to the iron ore resource base as well as regional exploration targets in the Yilgarn Mineral Field was active in 2007 and continued in 2008. At Cockatoo Island, feasibility studies have been completed for a below-sea-level eastward mine pit extension. The Stage 3 extension was reviewed by the regulators and approved in August 2008. Construction on a necessary extension of the existing seawall commenced in the third quarter 2008, with production anticipated to restart by the end of the second quarter 2009. This extension is expected to extend production for approximately two additional years, through June 2011.
The mineralization at the Koolyanobbing operations is predominantly hematite and goethite replacements in greenstone-hosted banded iron-formations. Individual deposits tend to be small with complex ore-waste contact relationships. The Koolyanobbing operations reserves are derived from 15 separate mineral deposits distributed over a 100-kilometer operating radius. The mineralization at Cockatoo Island is predominantly soft, hematite-rich sandstone that produces premium high grade, low impurity direct shipping fines.
An exploration program providing geologic definition of the hematite mineralization at Amapá is ongoing. Mineralized material at the Amapá mine is predominantly hematite occurring in weathered and leached greenstone-hosted banded iron-formation of the Archean Vila Nova Group. Variable degrees of leaching generate soft hematite mineralization suitable for either sinter feed production via crushing and gravity separation or pelletizing feed production via grinding and flotation.
In Australia, the Sonoma mine operation is an open-cut mine located in the northern section of Queensland’s Bowen Basin. A mix of high quality metallurgical coal and thermal coal is recovered from the B and C seams of the Permian Mooranbah Coal Measures.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models are then constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine design and life of mine operating schedules.
Item 3.