Item 2. Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our operations:
Mine Facilities and Equipment. Each of the North American Iron Ore mines has crushing, concentrating, and pelletizing facilities. There are crushing and screening facilities at Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island. North American Coal mines have preparation, processing, and load-out facilities, with the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines sharing facilities. The facilities at each site are in satisfactory condition, although they require routine capital and maintenance expenditures on an ongoing basis. Certain mine equipment generally is powered by electricity, diesel fuel or gasoline. The total cost of the property, plant and equipment, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation as of December 31, 2007, for each of the mines is set forth in the chart below.
(1) Includes capitalized financing costs of $6.9 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(2) Includes capitalized financing costs of $16.2 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(3) Does not reflect depreciation, which is recorded by the individual venturers.
(4) The mine is in the pre-production stage.
(5) Cockatoo Island plant and equipment is fully amortized.
North American Iron Ore
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in the following six North American iron ore mines:
Empire mine
The Empire mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Marquette, Michigan. The mine has been in operation since 1963. Over the past five years, the Empire mine has produced between 4.8 million and 5.4 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 79.0 percent of Empire, and a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal USA has retained a 21 percent ownership in Empire with limited rights and obligations, which it has a unilateral right to put to us at any time subsequent to the end of 2007. This right has not been exercised. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and lease them to Empire. A subsidiary of Cliffs leases the balance of the Empire reserves from the other owners of such reserves and subleases them to Empire.
Tilden mine
The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. The Tilden mine has been in operation since 1974. Over the past five years, the Tilden mine has produced between 6.9 million and 7.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 85 percent of Tilden, with the remaining minority interest owned by U.S. Steel Canada. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. The logistical benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing.
Hibbing mine
The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. The Hibbing mine has been in operation since 1976. Over the past five years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 7.4 million and 8.5 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 23 percent of Hibbing, ArcelorMittal USA has a 62.3 percent interest, and U.S. Steel Canada has a 14.7 percent interest. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances.
Northshore mine
The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi Iron Range. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior, on U.S. Highway 61. The Northshore mine has been in continuous operation since 1990. Over the past five years, the Northshore mine has produced between 4.8 million and 5.2 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. We own 100 percent of the mine.
United Taconite mine
The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota. The United Taconite concentrator and pelletizing facilities are located 10 miles south of the mine, near the town of Forbes, Minnesota. The main entrance to the concentrator and pelletizing facilities is on County Road 16, three miles west of State Highway 53. The mine has been operating since 1965. Over the past five years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 1.6 million and 5.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 70 percent of United Taconite, with Laiwu owning the remaining 30 percent. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata.
Wabush mine
The Wabush mine and concentrator is located in Wabush, Labrador, Canada, and the pellet plant is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. Over the past five years, the Wabush mine has produced between 3.8 million and 5.2 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. We own 26.8 percent of Wabush, Dofasco has a 28.6 percent interest and U.S. Steel Canada has a 44.6 percent interest. At the end of 2007 we were in negotiations to sell our 26.8 percent minority ownership to Dofasco, a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal. Negotiations have not been finalized and it is possible that the transaction may not be consummated.
North American Coal
We directly own and operate the following three North American coal mines:
Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines
The Pinnacle Complex includes the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines and is located approximately 30 miles southwest of Beckley, West Virginia. The Pinnacle mine has been in operation since 1969. Over the past five years, the Pinnacle mine has produced between 1.4 million and 2.5 million tons of coal annually. The Green Ridge mine has been in operation since 2004 and has produced between 0.4 million and 0.5 million tons of coal annually.
Oak Grove mine
The Oak Grove mine is located approximately 25 miles southwest of Birmingham, Alabama. The mine has been in operation since 1972. Over the past five years, the Oak Grove mine has produced between 1.3 million and 1.7 million tons of coal annually.
Asia-pacific Iron Ore
Koolyanobbing
The Koolyanobbing operations are located 425 kilometers east of Perth and approximately 50 kilometers northeast of the town of Southern Cross. Koolyanobbing produces lump and fine iron ore. An expansion program was completed in 2006 to increase capacity from six to eight million tonnes per annum. The expansion was primarily driven by the development of iron ore resources at Mount Jackson and Windarling, located 80 kilometers and 100 kilometers north of the existing Koolyanobbing operations, respectively. Over the past five years, the Koolyanobbing operation has produced between 4.9 million and 7.6 million tonnes annually.
Cockatoo Island
The Cockatoo Island operation is located six kilometers to the west of Yampi Peninsula, in the Buccaneer Archipelago, and 140 kilometers north of Derby in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The island has been mined for iron ore since 1951, with a break in operations between 1985 and 1993. Over the past five years, Cockatoo Island has produced between 0.6 million and 1.4 million tonnes annually at the 100 percent ownership level.
Portman commenced a beneficiation project in 1993 that was completed in mid-2000. Portman owns a 50 percent interest in a joint venture to mine remnant iron ore deposits. Mining from this phase of the operation commenced in late 2000 and is expected to continue, based on current reserves, until the second quarter of 2008. Studies are underway evaluating the technical and economic feasibility of developing a below-sea-level eastward resource extension of the Cockatoo deposit. Ore is hauled by haul truck to the stockpiles, crushed and screened and then transferred by conveyor to the shiploader.
Transportation
Two railroads, one of which is wholly owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan. From the Mesabi Range, Hibbing pellets are transported by rail to a shiploading port at Superior, Wisconsin. United Taconite pellets are shipped by railroad to the port of Duluth, Minnesota. At Northshore, crude ore is shipped by a wholly owned railroad from the mine to processing and dock facilities at Silver Bay, Minnesota. In Canada, there is an open-pit mine and concentrator at Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland and a pellet plant and dock facility at Pointe Noire, Quebec. At the Wabush mine, concentrates are shipped by rail from the Scully mine at Wabush to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel to Canada, the United States and other international destinations or shipped as concentrates for sinter feed.
Our coal production is shipped domestically by rail, barge and/or truck. Coal for international customers is shipped through the port of Mobile, Alabama or Newport News, Virginia.
All of the ore mined at the Koolyanobbing operations is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, 575 kilometers to the south for shipment to Asian customers. Direct ship premium fines mined at Cockatoo Island are loaded at a local dock.
Internal Control over Reserve Estimation
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating mineral reserves. The procedures include the calculation of mineral reserves at each mine by mining engineers and geologists under the direction of our Chief Mining Engineer. Our General Manager-Resource Technology compiles, reviews, and submits the calculations to the Corporate Accounting department, where the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports are prepared based on those calculations. The draft disclosure is submitted to our General Manager-Resource Technology for further review and approval. The draft disclosures are then reviewed and approved by our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer before inclusion in our annual and quarterly reports. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and mineral reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to mineral reserve estimates, other than those due to production, are documented by our General Manager-Resource Technology and are submitted to our President and Chief Executive Officer for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and mineral reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings.
Operations
In North America, we produced 21.8 million, 20.8 million and 22.1 million long tons of iron ore pellets in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, for our account and 12.8 million, 12.8 million and 13.8 million long tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company owners of the mines. We also produced 1.1 million short tons of coal in North America in 2007, representing our volume since the acquisition of PinnOak on July 31, 2007. In Australia, we produced 8.4 million tonnes, 7.7 million tonnes and 5.2 million tonnes in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Asia-Pacific Iron Ore’s 2005 total represents production since the March 31, 2005 acquisition of Portman. See Production and Sales Volume in Item 7 for further information.
Our business is subject to a number of operational factors that can affect our future profitability. A more detailed description of these risks is contained in Item 1A - Risk Factors.
Mine Capacity and Ore Reserves
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Standard Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted and produced at the time of the reserve determination. All reserves are classified as proven or probable and are supported by life-of-mine plans.
North American Iron Ore
Our 2008 ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2007 were estimated from fully-designed open pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. These fully designed pits incorporate design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates. The following tables reflect expected current annual capacity and economic ore reserves for our North American and Asia-Pacific iron ore mines as of December 31, 2007.
(1) Tons are long tons of pellets of 2,240 pounds.
(2) Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves based on life-of-mine operating schedules.
(3) We regularly evaluate our reserves estimates and updated them in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
In 2007, there were no changes in reserve estimates at Hibbing, Tilden, Northshore or Wabush, except for production.
A new ore reserve estimate was completed at United Taconite that incorporates increased iron ore pellet pricing, addition of new mining areas, and improved pit designs and production schedules. The updated ore reserve estimate calculated a 31 percent increase, or 35 million tons.
During 2007, the geologic resource model at Empire was updated by modifying an ore quality cut-off for oxidation. The net result of gains from a 2006 re-optimization of the life of mine pit design and losses due to this oxidized material resulted in an increase of two million tons in the remaining pellet reserves.
Asia-Pacific Iron Ore
(1) Tons are metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
(2) Reported ore reserves restricted to both proven and probable reserves based on life of mine operating schedules. Koolyanobbing reserves can be derived from up to 15 separate mineral deposits over a 100-kilometer operating distance. 7.4 million tonnes of the Koolyanobbing reserves are sourced from current long-term stockpiles.
(3) We regularly update our reserves estimates in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 and the 2004 Edition of the JORC code.
(4) An expansion project was completed in 2006 that increased annual production capacity to 8 million tonnes.
(5) Portman has a 50 percent interest in the Cockatoo Island Joint Venture. Capacity and reserve totals represent 100 percent.
The increase in Koolyanobbing ore reserves is related to exploration success in expanding the mineral resource inventory and conversion of inferred resources to indicated resources. Mining at Cockatoo Island was conducted to deeper levels than originally planned during 2007, with mined production from the current Stage 2 pit now planned to continue until the second quarter of 2008. Product iron grades have also been lowered to assist extension of the mine life, but the revised grades still generate a premium fines product.
North American Coal
Our 2008 reserve estimates for our North American underground coal mines as of December 31, 2007 were estimated using three-dimensional modeling techniques, coupled with mine plan designs. A complete re-estimation of the moist, recoverable coal reserves and life-of-mine plans was completed after the acquisition. The following table reflects expected current annual capacities and economically recoverable reserves for our North American coal mines as of December 31, 2007.
(1) Short tons of 2,000 pounds.
(2) All coal extracted by underground mining using longwall and continuous miner equipment.
(3) All recoverable coal < 1 percent sulfur and > 13,000 Btu/lb. As received.
Asia-Pacific Coal
The 2008 reserve estimate for our Asia-Pacific coal mine as of December 31, 2007 is based on a JORC-compliant resource estimate. An optimized pit design for an initial 10-year mine operating schedule was generated supporting the reserve estimate.
The following table reflects expected current annual capacity and economically recoverable reserves for the Sonoma Project:
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds. In-place tons at eight percent moisture, recoverable clean tons at nine percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cleveland-Cliffs has an effective 45 percent interest in the Joint Venture.
(2) All coal is extracted by conventional surface mining techniques.
The Sonoma Project’s recoverable coal reserves are primarily metallurgical grade coal (standard coking coal plus low volatile coal for pulverized coal injection) and steam coal.
General Information about the Mines
Leases. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates.
Exploration and Development. All iron ore mining operations are open-pit mines that are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. At our North American Iron Ore mines, drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
At Koolyanobbing, an exploration program targeting extensions to the iron ore resource base as well as regional exploration targets in the Yilgarn Mineral Field was active in 2007 and will continue in 2008. At Cockatoo Island, feasibility studies have been completed for a below-sea-level eastward mine pit extension. Environmental permitting has been initiated supporting this proposed extension to the Cockatoo mine life.
An exploration program providing geologic definition of the hematite mineralization at Amapá is ongoing.
The Biwabik, Negaunee, and Wabush Iron Formations are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and/or hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Chert is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
The mineralization at the Koolyanobbing operations is predominantly hematite and goethite replacements in greenstone-hosted banded iron-formations. Individual deposits tend to be small with complex ore-waste contact relationships. The Koolyanobbing operations reserves are derived from 15 separate mineral deposits distributed over a 100-kilometer operating radius. The mineralization at Cockatoo Island is predominantly friable, hematite-rich sandstone that produces premium high grade, low impurity direct shipping fines.
Mineralized material at the Amapá mine is predominantly hematite occurring in weathered and leached greenstone-hosted banded iron-formation of the Archean Vila Nova Group. Variable degrees of leaching generate friable hematite mineralization suitable for either sinter feed production via crushing and gravity separation or pelletizing feed production via grinding and flotation.
All North American Coal mine operations are underground mines that are in production. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations. The Pocahontas No 3 and Blue Creek Coal Seams are Pennsylvanian Age low ash, high quality coals.
In Australia, the Sonoma mine operation is an open-cut mine located in the northern section of Queensland’s Bowen Basin. A mix of high quality metallurgical coal and thermal coal is recovered from the B and C seams of the Permian Mooranbah Coal Measures.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models are then constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine design and life of mine operating schedules.
Item 3.