Item 2. Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our operations:
General Information about the Mines
All iron ore mining operations are open-pit mines that are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. At our U.S. Iron Ore, Eastern Canadian Iron Ore and Asia Pacific Iron Ore mines, drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
North American Coal operations consist of both underground and surface mines that are in production. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models for iron ore and stratigraphic models for coal are constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine design and life of mine operating schedules.
U.S. Iron Ore
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in five U.S. Iron Ore mines located in Michigan and Minnesota from which we produced 23.7 million, 21.6 million and 15.0 million long tons of iron ore pellets in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for our account. We produced 7.3 million, 6.6 million and 1.9 million long tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company partners of the mines.
Our U.S. Iron Ore mines produce from deposits located within the Biwabik and Negaunee Iron Formation which are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Quartz is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of other chiefly iron bearing silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
(1) Net of Accumulated Amortization and Depreciation. Hibbing Taconite is reflected at our 23 percent ownership interest.
(2) Tons are long tons of 2,240 pounds.
Empire Mine
The Empire mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles southwest of Marquette, Michigan. Over the past five years, the Empire mine has produced between 2.6 million and 4.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
We own 79.0 percent of Empire and a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal USA has retained the remaining 21 percent ownership in Empire with limited rights and obligations, which it has a unilateral right to put to us at any time subsequent to the end of 2007. This right has not been exercised. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and lease them to Empire. A subsidiary of ours leases the balance of the Empire reserves from other owners of such reserves and subleases them to Empire. Operations consists of an open pit truck and shovel mine, a concentrator that utilizes single stage crushing, Autogenous Grinding (AG) mills, magnetic separation, and floatation to produce a magnetic concentrate that is then supplied to the on-site pellet plant.
Tilden Mine
The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. Over the past five years, the Tilden mine has produced between 5.6 million and 9.1 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. We own 85 percent of Tilden, with the remaining minority interest owned by a subsidiary of U.S. Steel Canada Inc. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden. Operations consists of an open pit truck and shovel mine, a concentrator that utilizes single stage crushing, AG mills, magnetic separation, and floatation to produce a magnetic concentrate that is then supplied to the on-site pellet plant.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. The logistical benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing. Two railroads, one of which is wholly owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan.
In the third quarter of 2010, an expansion project was approved at our Empire and Tilden mines for capital investments on equipment. The expansion project is expected to allow the Empire mine to produce at three million tons annually through 2014 and increase Tilden mine production by an additional two million tons annually.
Hibbing Mine
The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. Over the past five years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 1.7 million and 8.2 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. We own 23.0 percent of Hibbing, a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal has a 62.3 percent interest and a subsidiary of U.S. Steel has a 14.7 percent interest. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates. Hibbing operations consists of an open pit truck and shovel mine, a concentrator that utilizes single stage crushing, AG mills and magnetic separation, and an on-site pellet plant. From the site, pellets are transported by BNSF rail to a ship loading port at Superior, Wisconsin operated by BNSF.
Northshore Mine
The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi Iron Range. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in
Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior. Crude ore is shipped by a wholly owned railroad from the mine to the processing and dock facilities at Silver Bay. Over the past five years, the Northshore mine has produced between 3.2 million and 5.8 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. We own 100 percent of the mine. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases routinely are renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates. Northshore operations consist of an open pit truck and shovel mine where two stages of crushing occurs before the ore is transported along a Company-owned 47-mile rail line to the plant site in Silver Bay. At the plant site, two additional stages of crushing occurs before the ore is sent to the concentrator. The concentrator utilizes rod mills and magnetic separation to produce a magnetite concentrate, which is delivered to the pellet plant located on-site. The plant site has its own ship loading port located on Lake Superior.
United Taconite Mine
The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota. The United Taconite concentrator and pelletizing facilities are located ten miles south of the mine, near the town of Forbes, Minnesota. Over the past five years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 3.8 million and 5.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. In 2008, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 30 percent interest in United Taconite. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases routinely are renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates. United Taconite operations consists of an open pit truck and shovel mine where two stages of crushing occurs before the ore is transported by rail to the plant site located ten miles to the south. At the plant site an additional stage of crushing occurs before the ore is sent to the concentrator. The concentrator utilizes rod mills and magnetic separation to produce a magnetite concentrate, which is delivered to the pellet plant. From the site, pellets are transported by CN rail to a ship loading port at Duluth, MN operated by CN.
Eastern Canadian Iron Ore
We own and operate interests in two iron ore mines in the Provinces of Quebec and Labrador from which we produce a product mix of iron ore pellets and concentrate. We produced 6.9 million, 3.9 million and 2.1 million metric tons of iron ore product in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011 we acquired Consolidated Thompson along with its 75 percent interest in the Bloom Lake property.
Our Eastern Canadian Mines produce from deposits located within the area known as the Labrador Trough and is composed of iron-formations, which are classified as Lake Superior type. Lake Superior type iron-formations consist of banded sedimentary rocks that formed under similar conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. The Labrador Trough region has experienced considerable metamorphism and folding of the original iron deposits. Magnetite and hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Quartz is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of other chiefly iron bearing silicate minerals. The ore minerals liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
(1) Net of Accumulated Amortization and Depreciation.
(2) Tons are metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
Wabush Mines
The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. Over the past five years, the Wabush mine has produced between 2.7 million and 4.6 million tons of iron ore pellets annually. On October 12, 2009, we exercised our right of first refusal to acquire the remaining interest in Wabush, including U.S. Steel subsidiary’s 44.6 percent interest and ArcelorMittal’s subsidiary’s 28.6 percent interest. Ownership transfer to Cliffs was completed on February 1, 2010. Mining is conducted on several mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates. The Wabush mine and concentrator are located in Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland, and the pellet plant and dock facility is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. At the mine, operations consist of an open pit truck and shovel mine, a concentrator that utilizes single stage crushing, AG mills and gravity separation to produce an iron concentrate. Concentrates are shipped by rail 300 miles to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel within Canada, to the United States and other international destinations. Additionally, concentrates may be shipped directly from Pointe Noire for sinter feed.
Bloom Lake
The Bloom Lake mine and concentrator are located approximately nine miles southwest of Fermont, Quebec, Canada. As previously mentioned, our acquisition of Consolidated Thompson included a 75 percent majority ownership in the Bloom Lake operation. Phase I of the Bloom Lake mine was commissioned in March 2010 and it consists of an open pit truck and shovel mine, a concentrator that utilizes single stage crushing, an AG mill and gravity separation to produce an iron concentrate. Phase II currently is under construction and consists of an additional concentrator and support facilities. The expansion project upon completion of Phase II will result in a ramp-up of production capabilities from 8.0 million to 16.0 million metric tons of iron ore concentrate per year. The open pit mine and mining fleet will be expanded to support the required ore delivery for both Phase I and II. From the site, concentrate is transported by rail to a ship loading port in Pointe Noire, Quebec.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
In Australia, we own and operate interests in the Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island iron ore mines from which we produced 8.9 million metric tons, 9.3 million metric tons and 8.3 million metric tons in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The mineralization at the Koolyanobbing operations is predominantly hematite and goethite replacements in greenstone-hosted banded iron-formations. Individual deposits tend to be small with complex ore-waste contact relationships. The reserves at the Koolyanobbing operations are derived from 14 separate mineral deposits distributed over a 70-mile operating radius. The mineralization at Cockatoo Island is predominantly soft, hematite-rich sandstone that produces premium high grade, low impurity direct shipping fines.
(1) Net of Accumulated Amortization and Depreciation. Cockatoo Island is reflected at our 50 percent ownership interest.
(2) Tons are metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
Koolyanobbing
The Koolyanobbing operations are located 250 miles east of Perth and approximately 30 miles northeast of the town of Southern Cross. Koolyanobbing produces lump and fines iron ore. Ongoing exploration programs targeting extensions to the iron ore resource base, including regional exploration targets in the Yilgarn Mineral Field, were active in 2011. In 2011, a significant permitting milestone was achieved with the granting of regulatory approvals necessary to develop above the water table at Windarling’s W1 deposit. Over the past five years, the Koolyanobbing operation has produced between 7.3 million and 8.9 million tons annually. Ore material is sourced from eight separate open pit mines and delivered by typical production trucks or road trains to a crushing and screening facility located at Koolyanobbing. In 2011 we received regulatory approvals necessary for the development of the Deception deposit located approximately 12 miles north of Windarling. All of the ore from the Koolyanobbing operations is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, 360 miles to the south, for shipment to Asian customers.
In September 2010, our Board of Directors approved a capital project at our Koolyanobbing operation that is expected to increase production output at Koolyanobbing to approximately 11 million metric tons annually. The expansion project requires a capital investment of $275 million, of which $202 million has been spent as of December 31, 2011. These improvements are expected to be fully implemented by the second half of 2012.
Cockatoo Island
The Cockatoo Island operation is located four miles to the west of Yampi Peninsula in the Buccaneer Archipelago, and 90 miles north of Derby in the West Kimberley region of Western Australia. The island has been mined for iron ore since 1951, with a break in operations between 1985 and 1993. During the past five years, Cockatoo Island has ranged from no production to 1.4 million tons annually.
We own a 50 percent interest in this joint venture to mine remnant iron ore deposits. Mining from this phase of the operation commenced in late 2000. Production at Cockatoo Island ended during 2008 due to construction on Phase 3 of the seawall, which at the time was expected to extend production for an additional two years. In April 2009, an unanticipated subsidence of the seawall occurred and, as a result, production from the mine was delayed. Production at Cockatoo Island resumed earlier than expected, resulting in the production of 0.7 million metric tons in the second half of 2010. Production continued throughout 2011, resulting in the production of 1.4 million metric tons for the year. Ore is hauled by haul truck to the stockpiles, crushed and screened, and then transferred by conveyor to the ship loader where the ore is loaded onto ships for export to customers in Asia.
In August 2011, we entered into a term sheet with our joint venture partner, HWE Cockatoo Pty Ltd., to sell our beneficial interest in the mining tenements and certain infrastructure of Cockatoo Island to Pluton Resources. The potential transaction is expected to occur at the end of the current stage of mining, Phase 3, which is anticipated to be complete in late 2012. Due diligence has been completed and the definitive sale agreement is being drafted and negotiated. The definitive sale agreement will be conditional on the receipt of regulatory and third-party consents and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions.
Latin American Iron Ore
Amapá
Mineralized material at the Amapá mine is predominantly hematite occurring in weathered and leached greenstone-hosted banded iron-formation of the Archean Vila Nova Group. Variable degrees of leaching generate soft hematite mineralization suitable for either sinter feed production via crushing and gravity separation or pelletizing feed production via grinding and flotation. Amapá operations consist of an open pit mine and a concentrator that utilizes crushing, milling and gravity separation, to produce various iron products. From the site, products are transported by rail to the Port of Santana. Over the past four years, the Amapá mine has produced between 1.2 million and 4.8 million metric tons annually.
Ore reserves for Amapá, in which we have a 30 percent ownership interest, have not been estimated by Cliffs. The ore reserve estimation process is controlled and managed by Anglo as the parent company and mine operator. Sufficient technical data on the processing of Amapá mineralized material does not exist at this time,
precluding estimation of recoverable product and grade, and therefore economic reserves as defined by SEC Industry Guide 7.
(1) Net of Accumulated Amortization and Depreciation. Amapá is reflected at our 30 percent ownership interest.
(2) Tons are metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
North American Coal
We directly own and operate three North American coal mining complexes from which we produced a total of 5.0 million, 3.2 million and 1.7 million short tons of coal in North America in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our coal production at each mine is shipped within the U.S. by rail or barge. Coal for international customers is shipped through the ports of Mobile, Alabama, Newport News, Virginia and New Orleans, Louisiana.
Coal seams mined at all of our North American Coal operations are Pennsylvanian Age and derived from the Pocahontas 3 and 4 seams at the Pinnacle Complex and the Blue Creek Seam at Oak Grove, which produce high quality, low ash metallurgical products, while multiple seams are mined at the CLCC underground and surface mines producing both metallurgical and thermal products.
(1) Net of Accumulated Amortization and Depreciation.
(2) Tons are short tons of 2,000 pounds.
Pinnacle Complex
The Pinnacle Complex includes the Pinnacle and Green Ridge mines and is located approximately 30 miles southwest of Beckley, West Virginia. The Pinnacle mine has been in operation since 1969. Over the past five years, the Pinnacle mine has produced between 0.7 million and 2.1 million tons of coal annually. The Green Ridge mines have been in operation since 2004 and have produced between 0.1 million and 0.4 million tons of coal annually. In February 2010, the Green Ridge No. 1 mine was closed permanently due to exhaustion of the economic reserves at the mine. In addition, the Green Ridge No. 2 mine was idled in January 2012. Primary access to the Pinnacle mine is by shaft, while a drift entry is used at Green Ridge. Pinnacle utilizes continuous miners and a longwall plow system, Green Ridge utilizes only continuous miners. Both facilities share preparation, processing and load-out facilities.
Oak Grove
The Oak Grove mine is located approximately 25 miles southwest of Birmingham, Alabama. The mine has been in operation since 1972. Over the past five years, the Oak Grove mine has produced between 0.9 million and 1.2 million tons of coal annually. In 2011 a new shaft and support facilities were commissioned in order to reduce the transport time for supplies and personnel to the working face. The previous shaft still is utilized in a support role. Oak Grove utilizes a long wall shear with continuous miners. Preparation, processing and rail load-out facilities are located on-site. As previously disclosed, the preparation plant at Oak Grove incurred significant tornado damage during 2011. The plant rebuild includes new equipment and improvements to the process design that will enhance the performance of the plant. The preparation plant achieved partial operating capacity in January 2012.
Cliffs Logan County Coal
Cliffs Logan County Coal (CLCC) property is located within Boone, Logan and Wyoming counties in southern West Virginia. CLCC currently produces metallurgical and thermal coal from surface and underground mines that are served by a preparation plant and unit-train load out facility on the CSXT. Two underground mines, the Powellton No. 1 and Dingess-Chilton Mines, produce high-volatile metallurgical coal using room and pillar retreat mining methods using continuous miner equipment. The Toney Fork No. 2 surface mine, produces thermal coal with a combination of contour strip area mining and point removal methods.
The Powellton and Dingess-Chilton mines have been in operation since 2008. Over the past four years, the Powellton mine has produced between 0.1 million and 0.7 million tons of coal annually and the Dingess-Chilton mine production has ranged from no production to 0.6 million tons of coal annually due to the ramp-up to full production. The Toney Fork No. 2 mine has been in operation since 2005. Over the past four years, the Toney Fork No. 2 mine has produced between 1.2 million and 1.5 million tons of coal annually. The Lower War Eagle and Elklick Chilton mines currently are under development and expected to produce approximately 0.2 million tons and 0.1 million tons, respectively, in 2012.
Asia Pacific Coal
Sonoma
(1) Net of Accumulated Amortization and Depreciation.
(2) Tons are metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
We have a 45 percent interest in the Sonoma joint venture, which owns the mine. Development began in 2007 with the first load of coal shipped in early 2008. The Sonoma operation is located in the northern section of Queensland’s Bowen Basin, four miles south of Collinsville. A mix of high-quality metallurgical coal and thermal coal is recovered from the B and C seams of the Permian Mooranbah Coal Measures. The operation consists of an open pit truck shovel mine, a preparation/processing plant and rail load-out facility, which are located on-site. Product is delivered via rail 65 miles east to the Abbot Point Coal Terminal in Bowen. Product is shipped primarily to customers located in Asia. Over the past four years, the Sonoma mine has produced between 2.4 million and 3.5 million tons of coal annually.
Mineral Reserves
Policy
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating mineral reserves. The procedures include the calculation of mineral reserves at each mine by
professional mining engineers and geologists. We evaluate and analyze reserve estimates every three years in accordance with our mineral reserve policy or earlier if conditions merit. Management compiles and reviews the calculations, and once finalized, such information is used to prepare the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports. The disclosures are reviewed and approved by management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and mineral reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to mineral reserve estimates, other than those due to production, are adequately documented and submitted to our Chief Executive Officer for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and mineral reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings. In 2012, we will be revising our policy in regards to the estimation and reporting of mineral reserves to better align with international best practices. As we continue to grow as an international mining company with a diversified mineral portfolio, our policies must be able to support the Company as it evolves.
Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Standard Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted and produced at the time of the reserve determination. All reserves are classified as proven or probable and are supported by life-of-mine plans.
Reserve estimates are based on pricing that does not exceed the three-year trailing average of benchmark prices. For United States Iron Ore operations, prices are based on iron ore pellets delivered to the Lower Great Lakes, and for our Eastern Canadian and Asia Pacific operations, iron ore prices represent the three-year trailing average of international benchmark pricing. Our North American Coal operations utilize a combination of domestic and international benchmarks.
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, commodity prices vary based on the date of the last reserve analysis. The table below identifies the reserve analysis date and the respective three-year trailing price for each of our mines as of December 31, 2011.
(1) Pricing for our U.S. Iron Ore mines and Wabush reflects US$ per long tons of pellets F.O.B. port, except for Empire and Tilden, which are F.O.B. mine. Pricing for our Asia Pacific Iron Ore mines and Bloom Lake reflects US$ per metric ton of product. Pricing for our North American Coal mines reflects US$ per short ton.
(2) The decision was made to exclude anomolous 2008 Benchmark Pricing from the three-year trailing average price used in determining our U.S. Iron Ore reserve estimates. The unique economic conditions experienced during 2008 did not accurately reflect normal pricing conditions and unduly skewed the three-year trailing average. Therefore, the three-year trailing average for the 2009 reserve analysis reflects 2005-2007 prices, the 2010 reserve analyses reflects 2006-2009 prices, excluding 2008 and the 2011 reserve analysis reflects 2007-2010 prices, excluding 2008.
(3) The decision was made to delay the update to Hibbing’s economic reserve analyses until 2012 while we are currently revising our mineral reserve policy.
(4) As previously mentioned, we are in the process of selling our interest in the Cockatoo Island and as such we have made the decision not to update the reserve analyses.
Iron Ore Reserves
Ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2011 were estimated from fully designed open pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. These fully designed pits incorporate design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates. New estimates were completed in 2011 for the following operations: Tilden, Bloom Lake and Koolyanobbing. All other operations reserves are net 2011 production.
United States Iron Ore
(1) Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves based on life-of-mine operating schedules.
(2) Long tons equal 2,240 pounds.
(3) Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs has a 79 percent interest in Empire.
(4) Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs has a 85 percent interest in Tilden.
(5) Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs has a 23 percent interest in Hibbing Taconite.
A new economic reserve analysis was completed for the Tilden operations in 2011. Based on the analysis, Tilden pellet reserves decreased slightly by 0.4 million long tons when compared to 2010. The decrease is due to an updated geological model. The Tilden pellet reserves were further reduced by 2011 production.
Eastern Canadian Iron Ore
An economic reserve analysis was completed for the Bloom Lake operations in 2011. As previously mentioned, we acquired a controlling interest in Bloom Lake through the purchase of Consolidated Thompson in 2011. As such, 2011 is the first year that we are reporting reserves for Bloom Lake.
(1) Estimated standard equivalent pellets or concentrate, including both proven and probable reserves based on life-of-mine operating schedules.
(2) Metric tons equal 2,205 pounds.
(3) Prior year reserves for Wabush were reported in long tons. Long ton equals 2,240 pounds.
(4) As previously mentioned we acquired the Bloom Lake property as part of the acquisition of Consolidated Thompson. 2011 is the first year in which we are reporting a reserve for this property. Reserves listed on 100 pecent basis. Cliffs has a 75 percent interest in Bloom Lake.
Asia Pacific Iron Ore
A new economic reserve analysis was completed for the Koolyanobbing operations in 2011. Total reserves decreased 1.8 million metric tons, net 2011 production. The decrease is due to updated geological models.
(1) Reported ore reserves restricted to proven and probable tonnages based on life of mine operating schedules. 0.51 million metric tons of the Koolyanobbing reserves are sourced from current stockpiles.
(2) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds.
(3) Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs has a 50 percent interest in the Cockatoo Island joint venture.
(4) The mineral rights for these mines are 100% leased.
Coal Reserves
Coal reserves estimates for our North American underground and surface mines as of December 31, 2011 were estimated using three-dimensional modeling techniques, coupled with scheduled mine plans. The Pinnacle and Oak Grove coal reserves have not changed net of 2011 mine production.
North American Coal
A new economic reserve analysis was completed for Cliffs Logan County Coal operations in 2011. Total recoverable coal reserves decreased 6.2 million short tons, net 2011 production. The decrease is due to updated fully scheduled mine plans for both underground and surface operations. Reserve figures for our Pinnacle Complex and Oak Grove operations are based on economic analyses completed in 2009, and based upon our reserve estimate policy, are scheduled to be updated in 2012 with updated cost and pricing information.
(1) All coal extracted by underground mining using longwall and continuous miner equipment except for CLCC Surface, which is mined by contour and highwall mining methods.
(2) Short tons of 2,000 pounds.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
(4) CLCC thermal reserves do not meet U.S. compliance standards as defined by Phase II of the Clean Air Act as coal having a sulfur dioxide content of 1.2 pounds or less per million Btu.
(5) The mineral rights for these mines are 100 percent leased.
Asia Pacific Coal
The coal reserve estimate for our Asia Pacific mine (Sonoma) as of December 31, 2011 is based on a JORC compliant resource estimate and an optimized pit design completed as part of the 2007 feasibility study. These estimates are updated by the manager of the Sonoma joint venture yearly by way of production depletion, reconciliation of mined coal to product shipped and updated geological models. As a result of the 2011 estimate update, recoverable coal reserves increased by 1.1 million metric tons. Coal pricing for the reserve estimate is based upon international benchmark pricing at the time of investment in 2007, which was $71 per metric ton F.O.B. port for the range of products generated at Sonoma. Coal pricing at Sonoma has increased significantly since 2007, with the three-year trailing average price for 2008 to 2010 at $121 per ton.
(1) Metric tons of 2,205 pounds. Recoverable clean coal at 9 percent moisture. Reserves listed on 100 percent basis. Cliffs has a 45 percent interest in the Sonoma joint venture.
(2) All coal extracted by conventional surface mining techniques.
(3) Assigned reserves represent coal reserves that can be mined without a significant capital expenditure for mine development, whereas unassigned reserves will require significant capital expenditures to mine the reserves.
(4) The mineral rights for these mines are 100 percent leased.
Item 3.