Item 2.
Properties.
The following map shows the locations of our mines:
We directly or indirectly own and operate interests in the following six North American iron ore mines:
We increased our ownership in these mines (other than Northshore and United Taconite) in 2002 through assumption of the liabilities associated with the mine interests from their steel company owners.
Empire Mine. The Empire Mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Marquette, Michigan and is accessed via a paved road off State Highway 35. The mine has been in operation since 1963. We entered into an agreement with Ispat Inland effective December 31, 2002 that restructured the ownership of the Empire Mine. Under the agreement, we acquired the 25 percent interest rejected by LTV Corporation in its chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and a 19 percent interest from Ispat Inland. Currently, we manage the mine and have a 79 percent interest; Ispat Inland has a 21 percent interest in the mine and has the right to require us to purchase all of its interest under certain circumstances after 2007. We and Ispat Inland take our respective share of production
pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own directly approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire Mine and lease them to Empire. The Empire Mine leases the balance of its reserves from the other owners of such reserves. Over the past eight years, the Empire Mine has produced between 3.6 million tons and 8.4 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
Tilden Mine. The Tilden mine is located on the Marquette Iron Range in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula approximately five miles south of Ishpeming, Michigan. The main entrance to the Tilden mine is accessed by means of a paved road off of County Road 476. The Tilden mine has been in operation since 1974. On January 31, 2002, we increased our ownership of the Tilden mine to 85 percent by acquiring Algoma’s 45 percent interest in the mine and executing a term supply agreement under which we are Algoma’s sole supplier of iron ore pellets for 15 years. Currently, we manage the mine and have a 85 percent interest, and Stelco has a 15 percent interest in the mine. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the partnership agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine and lease them to Tilden. Over the past eight years, the Tilden mine has produced between 6.0 million tons and 7.9 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
On January 29, 2004, Stelco applied for and obtained Bankruptcy Court protection from creditors in Ontario Superior Court under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act. At the time of the filing, we had no trade receivable exposure to Stelco. Additionally, Stelco has continued to operate and has met its cash call requirements at the Tilden, Hibbing and Wabush mining ventures to date. The Bankruptcy Court has extended the deadline for the submittal of bids to purchase Stelco until February 14, 2005. Stelco has received an extension of the stay period from February 11, 2005 to April 29, 2005.
The Empire and Tilden mines are located adjacent to each other. Our recent increase in ownership of our Michigan mines has facilitated consolidation of operations and management, which will offer operational and cost benefits that were not achievable under the previous ownership structure. These benefits include a consolidated transportation system, more efficient employee and equipment operating schedules, reduction in redundant facilities and workforce and best practices sharing.
Hibbing Mine. The Hibbing mine is located in the center of Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range and is approximately ten miles north of Hibbing, Minnesota and five miles west of Chisholm, Minnesota. The main entrance to the Hibbing mine is accessed by means of a paved road and is located off County Road 5. The Hibbing mine has been in operation since 1976. In 2002, we acquired from Bethlehem Steel an eight percent interest in the Hibbing mine, which increased our ownership to 23 percent. Currently, we manage the mine and have a 23 percent interest. ISG has a 62.3 percent interest and Stelco has a 14.7 percent interest in the mine. Each partner takes its share of production pro rata; however, provisions in the joint venture agreement allow additional or reduced production to be delivered under certain circumstances. Over the past eight years, the Hibbing mine has produced between 6.1 million tons and 8.3 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
Northshore Mine. The Northshore mine is located in northeastern Minnesota, approximately two miles south of Babbitt, Minnesota on the northeastern end of the Mesabi iron formation. Northshore’s processing facilities are located in Silver Bay, Minnesota, near Lake Superior, on U.S. Highway 61. The main entrance to the Northshore mine is accessed by means of a gravel road and is located off County Road 20. The Northshore mine has been in continuous operation since 1990. The Northshore mine began production under our management and ownership on October 1, 1994. Currently, we own 100 percent of the mine. Over the past eight years, the Northshore mine has produced between 2.8 million tons and 5.0 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
The Northshore mine has a long history. It was first discovered in 1871 and operated in the 1920’s as the Mesabi Iron Company, one of the first commercial attempts at mining taconite. The property was operated for over 30 years by Reserve Mining Co. (“Reserve”), one of the two pioneering large scale pellet operations in Minnesota. Poor economic conditions in the steel industry forced the shutdown and bankruptcy of Reserve in 1986. The Reserve assets were purchased by Cyprus Minerals in 1989, and the property restarted operation in 1990. We purchased the property from Cyprus Minerals in 1994.
United Taconite. The United Taconite mine is located on Minnesota’s Mesabi Iron Range in and around the city of Eveleth, Minnesota, west of U.S. Highway 53. The main entrance to the United Taconite mine is accessed by means of a paved road and is located off Route 37. The mine has been operating since 1965. On November 26, 2003, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota approved the purchase of the assets of Eveleth Mines by United Taconite. Eveleth Mines ceased mining operations earlier in 2003 and was acquired by United Taconite effective as of December 1, 2003. Currently, we manage the mine and hold a 70 percent interest; Laiwu holds a 30 percent interest. Over the past six years, the United Taconite mine has produced between 1.6 million tons and 4.4 million tons of iron ore pellets annually.
Wabush Mines. The Wabush mine and concentrator is located in Wabush, Labrador, Canada, and the pellet plant is located in Pointe Noire, Quebec, Canada. The main entrance to the Wabush mine is accessed by means of a paved road and is located on Highway 530, about three miles west of the town of Wabush. The pellet plant is accessed by a paved road off Highway 138, about ten miles west of the town of Sept-Iles, Quebec. The Wabush mine has been in operation since 1965. In 1997, we acquired Ispat Inland’s interest in the Wabush mine. In August 2002, we acquired our proportionate share (approximately 4.05 percent) of the 15.09 percent interest rejected by Acme Metals Incorporated in its bankruptcy proceedings. As a result of these two events, we increased our ownership in the mine from 7.7 percent to 26.8 percent. We also manage the mine. Stelco has a 44.6 percent interest and Dofasco Inc. (“Dofasco”) has a 28.6 percent interest in the mine.
Transportation
Railroads, one of which is wholly owned by us, link the Empire and Tilden mines with Lake Michigan at the loading port of Escanaba, Michigan and with the Lake Superior loading port of Marquette, Michigan. From the Mesabi Range, Hibbing pellets are transported by rail to a shiploading port at Superior, Wisconsin. United Taconite pellets are shipped by railroad to the port of Duluth, Minnesota. At Northshore, crude ore is shipped by a wholly-owned railroad from the mine to processing facilities at Silver Bay, Minnesota. In Canada, there is an open pit mine and concentrator at Wabush, Labrador, Newfoundland and a pellet plant and dock facility at Pointe Noire, Quebec. At the Wabush mine, concentrates are shipped by rail from the Scully mine at Wabush to Pointe Noire where they are pelletized for shipment via vessel to Canada, the United States and other international destinations or shipped as concentrates for sinter feed to Europe.
Internal Auditing
We have a corporate policy relating to internal control and procedures with respect to auditing and estimating ore reserves. The procedures include the calculation of ore reserves at each mine by mining engineers and geologists under the direction of our Chief Mining Engineer. Our Chief Geologist and Manager of Mine Technology then compile and review the calculations and submit them to our Assistant Controller of Corporate Accounting. Our Assistant Controller of Corporate Accounting prepares the disclosures for our annual and quarterly reports based on those calculations and submits the draft disclosures to our Chief Geologist and Manager of Mine Technology for further review and approval. The draft disclosures are then reviewed and approved by our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer before inclusion in our annual and quarterly reports. Additionally, the long-range mine planning and ore reserve estimates are reviewed annually by our Audit Committee. Furthermore, all changes to ore reserve estimates, other than those due to changes in production levels, are documented by our Chief Geologist and Manager of Mine Technology and are submitted to our Vice President of Operations for review and approval. Finally, we perform periodic reviews of long-range mine plans and ore reserve estimates at mine staff meetings and senior management meetings.
Operations
During 2004 and 2003, we produced 21.7 million tons and 18.1 million tons, respectively, for our account and 12.7 million tons and 12.2 million tons, respectively, on behalf of the steel company owners of the mines. The 7.0 million ton increase in our share of tons produced in 2004 compared to 2002 principally reflected the acquisition in December 2003 and full year production in 2004 of United Taconite and increased customer demand. The following is a summary of total production and our share of that production:
(1)
Tons are long tons of pellets of 2,240 pounds.
(2)
Total production at United Taconite in 2003 and 2002 includes production of Eveleth Mines before it was acquired by United Taconite in the fourth quarter of 2003.
(3)
Excludes 4.2 million tons in 2002 and 1.5 million tons in 2003 produced by Eveleth Mines prior to its acquisition by United Taconite in the fourth quarter of 2003.
(1)
Tons are long tons of pellets of 2,240 pounds.
Our business is subject to a number of operational factors that can affect our future profitability. Significant mining challenges include the following:
a) the uncertainties regarding mine life and estimates of ore reserves;
b) uncertainties relating to iron ore pricing and fluctuations in currency exchange rates;
c) unanticipated geological conditions, natural disasters, interruptions in electrical or other power sources, equipment failures, unanticipated capital requirements and maintenance costs, or other unexpected events that could cause shutdowns or production curtailments for us or for our steel industry customers;
d) uncertainties relating to production costs, including increases in our costs of electrical power, fuel or other energy sources;
e) uncertainties relating to governmental regulation of our mines and processing facilities, including under environmental laws; and
f) uncertainties relating to labor relations.
A more detailed description of these risks is contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Risks Relating to the Company.”
Mine Capacity and Iron Ore Reserves. The following is a table that reflects expected current annual capacity and economic ore reserves for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2004. The estimated ore reserves and full production rates could be affected by, among other things, future industry conditions, geological conditions, and ongoing mine planning. Maintenance of effective production capacity of the ore reserves could require increases in capital and development expenditures. Alternatively, changes in economic conditions or in the expected quality of ore reserves could decrease capacity or mineral reserves. Technological progress could alleviate such factors or increase capacity or ore reserves. Our 2005 ore reserve estimates for our iron ore mines as of December 31, 2004 were estimated from fully-designed pits developed using three-dimensional modeling techniques. The fully-designed pit incorporates design slopes, practical mining shapes and access ramps to assure the accuracy of our reserve estimates.
(1)
Tons are long tons of pellets of 2,240 pounds.
(2)
Estimated standard equivalent pellets, including both proven and probable reserves.
(3)
We regularly evaluate our ore reserve estimates and update them as required in accordance with the SEC Industry Guide 7.
(4)
An expansion project has been initiated that is expected to increase annual production capacity by .8 million tons.
(5)
United Taconite purchased the mine assets out of bankruptcy on December 1, 2003 and resumed operations in late December. United Taconite’s ore reserves had been based on an estimate generated by the former owners dated June 2000, adjusted for production since that time. The 2005 ore reserves, which increased by 23 million tons, were based on and fully comply with our ore reserve estimation policy. Annual capacity includes the full year effect of the 2004 expansion projects.
General Information about the Mines
Leases. Mining is conducted on multiple mineral leases having varying expiration dates. Mining leases are routinely renegotiated and renewed as they approach their respective expiration dates.
Exploration and Development. The Empire, Tilden, Hibbing, Northshore, United Taconite and Wabush mines are all open pit mines that are well past the exploration stage and are in production. Additional pit development is underway at each mine as required by long-range mine plans. Drilling programs are conducted periodically for the purpose of refining guidance related to ongoing operations.
The Biwabik, Negaunee, and Wabush Iron Formations are classified as Lake Superior type iron-formations that formed under similar sedimentary conditions in shallow marine basins approximately two billion years ago. Magnetite and/or hematite are the predominant iron oxide ore minerals present, with lesser amounts of goethite and limonite. Chert is the predominant waste mineral present, with lesser amounts of silicate and carbonate minerals. The ore minerals readily liberate from the waste minerals upon fine grinding.
Geologic models are developed for all mines to define the major ore and waste rock types. Computerized block models are then constructed that include all relevant geologic and metallurgical data. These are used to generate grade and tonnage estimates, followed by detailed mine designs.
Mine Facilities and Equipment. Each of the mines has crushing, concentrating, and pelletizing facilities. The facilities at each site are in satisfactory condition, although they require routine capital and maintenance expenditures on an ongoing basis. Certain mine equipment generally is powered by diesel or gasoline. The total cost of the property, plant and equipment, net of applicable accumulated amortization and depreciation as of December 31, 2004, for each of the mines is set forth in the chart below.
(1)
Includes capitalized financing costs of $13.2 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(2)
Includes capitalized financing costs of $25.1 million, net of accumulated amortization.
(3)
Does not reflect depreciation, which is recorded by the individual venturers.
(4)
As noted above, the assets of the Northshore mine were purchased out of bankruptcy by Cyprus Minerals in 1989.
(5)
As noted above, the assets of Eveleth Mines were purchased out of bankruptcy by United Taconite in 2003.
We directly own approximately one-half of the remaining ore reserves at the Empire mine and approximately three percent of the reserves at the Hibbing mine, and lease or sublease the balance of the reserves from their owners. We own all of the ore reserves at the Tilden mine. The ore reserves at Northshore mine, United Taconite mine and Wabush Mines are owned by others and leased or subleased directly to those mines.
The reduction in our ore reserve estimates for the Empire mine is due to the inability to develop effective mine plans that produce cost-justified combinations of production volume, ore quality and stripping requirements with our 2003 reserve base. A more detailed description of the reduction in ore reserve estimates for the Empire mine is contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Risks Relating to the Company.” The reduction in our ore reserve estimates for Wabush Mines is largely a reflection of increased operating costs, the impact of currency exchange rates and a reduction in maximum mining depth due to dewatering capabilities based on a hydroanalysis evaluation. Partially offsetting these impacts were higher Eastern Canadian pellet pricing and an increase in Wabush production to its capacity of six million tons per year. A more detailed description of the reduction in ore reserve estimates for Wabush Mines is contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations - Risks Relating to the Company.”
Competition
We compete with several iron ore producers in North America, including Iron Ore Company of Canada, Quebec Cartier Mining Co. and U.S. Steel, as well as other steel companies that own interests in iron ore mines that may have excess iron ore inventories. In addition, significant amounts of iron ore have, since the early 1980s, been shipped to the United States from Brazil and Venezuela in competition with iron ore produced by us.
As the North American steel industry continues to consolidate, a major focus of the consolidation is on the continued life of the integrated steel industry’s raw steel making operations, i.e., blast furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces that produce raw steel. Some steelmakers are importing semi-finished steel slabs as an alternative to using blast furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces to produce steel because of the costs associated with relining blast furnaces and maintaining coke ovens. These imported steel slabs can be converted and finished in the steelmaker’s downstream finishing facilities. If the trend continues, and more slabs are imported, the demand for pellets that are used primarily in blast furnaces would diminish. In addition, other competitive forces have become a large factor in the iron ore business. Electric furnaces built by “mini-mills,” which are steel recyclers, generally produce steel by using scrap steel, not iron ore pellets, in their electric furnaces.
Competition among the sellers of iron ore pellets is predicated upon the usual competitive factors of price, availability of supply, product performance, service and transportation cost to the consumer.
Environment
In the construction of our facilities and in their operation, substantial costs have been incurred and will be incurred to avoid undue effects on the environment. Our North American capital expenditures relating to environmental matters were $7.3 million in 2004 and $2.7 million in 2003. It is estimated that approximately $17.5 million will be spent in 2005 for capital investment in environmental control facilities.
Generally, various legislative bodies and federal and state agencies are continually promulgating numerous new laws and regulations affecting us, our customers, and our suppliers in many areas, including waste discharge and disposal, hazardous classification of materials and products, air and water discharges, and many other environmental, health and safety matters. Although we believe that our environmental policies and practices are sound and do not expect that the application of any current laws or regulations would be reasonably expected to result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot predict the collective adverse impact of this expanding body of laws and regulations.
The iron ore industry has been identified by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) as an industrial category that emits pollutants established by the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. These pollutants included over 200 substances that are now classified as hazardous air pollutants (“HAP”). The EPA is required to develop rules that would require major sources of HAP to utilize Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“MACT”) standards for their emissions. Pursuant to this statutory requirement, the EPA published a final rule on October 30, 2003 imposing emission limitations and other requirements on taconite iron ore processing operations. We must comply with the new requirements by no later than October 30, 2006. Our projected capital expenditures in 2005 and 2006 to meet the MACT standards are approximately $20 million, including $4 million related to the restart of Line 1 at United Taconite. In December 2003, we filed a Petition to Delist Taconite Iron Ore Processing from MACT under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act based upon extensive data analyses, human health and ecological risk assessments that are believed to demonstrate that a MACT regulation for taconite operations is not warranted. Typically, the EPA’s consideration of a petition is an iterative process extending over several months, with a longer period for controversial subjects. On January 23, 2004, the National Wildlife Federation, Minnesota Conservation Federation, Lake Superior Alliance and Save Lake Superior Association filed a petition for review of the EPA’s final MACT rule in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. This petition challenged the EPA’s decision not to impose standards for mercury and asbestos and monitoring of formaldehyde from taconite indurating furnaces. We filed a petition to intervene in this case. Subsequently, the Court remanded to EPA the asbestos and mercury rules; no determination has yet been made regarding the monitoring of formaldehyde.
Our environmental liability includes our obligations related to six sites which are independent of our iron mining operations, seven former iron ore-related sites, eight leased land sites where we are lessor and miscellaneous remediation obligations at our operating units. Included in the obligation are federal and state sites where we are named as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”), such as the Milwaukee Solvay site described in “Item 3.