Item 2. Most of the coal for Cholla is supplied by a coal supplier who mines all of the coal under a long-term lease of coal reserves owned by the Navajo Nation, the federal government, and private landholders. Remaining coal requirements are purchased on the spot market. All of the coal for Four Corners is purchased from a coal supplier with a long-term lease of coal reserves owned by the Navajo Nation. The coal for NGS comes from a supplier with a long-term lease with the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe. See Note 12 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 for information regarding our obligation for coal mine reclamation.
CONTRACTS Cholla presently has sufficient coal under current contracts to ensure a reliable fuel supply through 2005. Portions of the fuel supply are bid on the spot market to take advantage of competitive pricing options. Following expiration of current contracts, there are numerous competitive fuel supply options available to ensure continuous plant operation. Cholla also has certain requirements for low sulfur coal and the current supplier is expected to continue to provide most of Cholla's low sulfur coal requirements through the current contract. There are sufficient reserves of low sulfur coal available from other suppliers to ensure the continued operation of Cholla for its useful life. The sulfur content of coal at Cholla for 1999 was 0.47%. Average prices paid for all coal supplied from reserves dedicated under existing contracts were slightly lower than, but comparable to, 1998. For the years remaining on the contracts after 2000, prices will be reduced.
Four Corners is a mine-mouth operation which is under contract for coal through 2004. There are options to extend the contract through the plant site lease expiration in 2017. The sulfur content of Four Corners coal for 1999 was 0.77%, and the units are equipped with scrubbers. The average price paid for all coal supplied under the existing contract was slightly lower than, but comparable to, 1998. The Four Corners lease waives, until July 2001, the requirement that APS, as well as its fuel supplier, pay certain taxes to the Navajo Nation. In September 1997, a settlement agreement was finalized between the coal supplier, the Navajo Nation, and Four Corners participants, which settled certain issues in the lease regarding the obligation of the fuel supplier to pay taxes prior to the expiration of tax waivers in 2001. Pursuant to this agreement, the coal supplier currently pays a possessory interest tax to the Navajo Nation, which is contractually reimbursed by participants. The parties also agreed to
investigate alternative contractual arrangements and business relationships before 2001 in an effort to permit the electricity generated at Four Corners to be priced competitively. APS anticipates that additional taxes will be levied by the Navajo Nation upon the expiration of the tax waivers; however, APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter or the amount of the additional taxes.
NGS is under contract with its coal supplier through 2011, with options to extend through the plant site lease. The sulfur content of coal at NGS for 1999 was 0.53%, and the units are equipped with scrubbers. Average price paid for coal supplied in 1999 under the existing contract was lower than, but comparable to, 1998. The NGS lease waives certain taxes through the lease expiration in 2019. The lease provides for the potential to renegotiate the coal royalty in 2007 and 2017, which may impact the fuel price.
NATURAL GAS SUPPLY
APS is a party to contracts with a number of natural gas suppliers that allow it to purchase natural gas in the method it determines to be most economic. Currently, APS is purchasing the majority of its natural gas requirements from numerous companies under these contracts. APS' natural gas supply is transported pursuant to a firm transportation service contract with El Paso Natural Gas Company. APS continues to analyze the market to determine the most favorable source and method of meeting its natural gas requirements.
NUCLEAR FUEL SUPPLY
The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages:
* the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, * the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, * the enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, * the fabrication of fuel assemblies, * the utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors and * the storage of spent fuel and the disposal thereof.
The Palo Verde participants have made contractual arrangements to obtain quantities of uranium concentrates anticipated to be sufficient to meet operational requirements through 2002. Existing contracts and options could be utilized to meet approximately 88% of requirements in 2003, 88% of requirements in 2004, 49% of requirements in 2005, and 16% of requirements in 2006 and beyond. Spot purchases on the uranium market will be made, as appropriate, in lieu of any uranium that might be obtained through contractual options.
The Palo Verde participants have contracted for uranium conversion services. Existing contracts and options could be utilized to meet approximately 70% of requirements in 2000, 75% of requirements in 2001 and 80% of requirements in 2002. The Palo Verde participants have an enrichment services contract and an enriched uranium product contract that furnish enrichment services required for the operation of the three Palo Verde units through 2003. In addition, existing contracts will provide fuel assembly fabrication services until at least 2015 for each Palo Verde unit.
SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL AND WASTE DISPOSAL. Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended in 1987, the United States Department of Energy ("DOE") is obligated to accept and dispose of all spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive wastes generated by domestic power reactors. The NRC, pursuant to the Waste Act, requires operators of nuclear power reactors to enter into spent fuel disposal contracts with DOE. Under the Waste Act, DOE was to develop the facilities necessary for the storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel and to have the first such facility in operation by 1998. That facility was to be a permanent repository. DOE has announced that such a repository now cannot be completed before 2010. In July 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) ruled that the DOE has an obligation to start disposing of spent nuclear fuel no later than January 31, 1998. By way of letter dated December 17, 1996, DOE informed APS and other contract holders that DOE anticipates that it would be unable to begin acceptance of spent nuclear
fuel for disposal in a repository or interim storage facility by January 31, 1998. In November 1997, the D.C. Circuit issued a Writ of Mandamus precluding DOE from excusing its own delay on the grounds that DOE has not yet prepared a permanent repository or interim storage facility. On May 5, 1998, the D.C. Circuit issued a ruling refusing to order DOE to begin moving spent nuclear fuel. See "Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station" in Note 12 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of interim spent fuel storage costs.
Several bills have been introduced in Congress contemplating the construction of a central interim storage facility; however, there is resistance to certain features of these bills both in Congress and the Administration.
Facility funding is a further complication. While all nuclear utilities pay into a so-called nuclear waste fund an amount calculated on the basis of the output of their respective plants, the annual Congressional appropriations for the permanent repository have been for amounts less than the amounts paid into the waste fund (the balance of which is being used for other purposes). According to DOE spokespersons, the fund may now be at a level less than needed to achieve a 2010 operational date for a permanent repository. No funding will be available for a central interim facility until one is authorized by Congress.
APS has storage capacity in existing fuel storage pools at Palo Verde which, with certain modifications, could accommodate all fuel expected to be discharged from normal operation of Palo Verde through about 2002. Construction of a new facility for on-site dry storage of spent fuel is underway. Once this facility is completed and approvals are granted, APS believes that spent fuel storage or disposal methods will be available for use by Palo Verde to allow its continued operation beyond 2002.
A new low-level waste facility was built in 1995 on-site which could store an amount of waste equivalent to ten years of normal operation at Palo Verde. Although some low-level waste has been stored on-site, APS is currently shipping low-level waste to off-site facilities. APS currently believes that interim low-level waste storage methods are or will be available for use by Palo Verde to allow its continued operation and to safely store low-level waste until a permanent disposal facility is available.
APS believes that scientific and financial aspects of the issues of spent fuel and low-level waste storage and disposal can be resolved satisfactorily. However, APS also acknowledges that their ultimate resolution in a timely fashion will require political resolve and action on national and regional scales which APS is less able to predict.
PURCHASED POWER AGREEMENTS
In addition to that available from its own generating capacity (see "Properties" in Item 2), APS purchases electricity from other utilities under various arrangements. One of the most important of these is a long-term contract with Salt River Project. This contract may be canceled by Salt River Project on three years' notice and requires Salt River Project to make available, and APS to pay for, certain amounts of electricity. The amount of electricity is based in large part on customer demand within certain areas now served by APS pursuant to a related territorial agreement. The generating capacity available to APS pursuant to the contract was 316 MW January through May 1999, and starting June 1999 changed to 302 MW. In 1999, APS received approximately 1,056,200 MWh of energy under the contract and paid about $43.9 million for capacity availability and energy received. See Note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements for a discussion of amendments to this contract and other agreements with Salt River Project.
In September 1990, APS entered into a thirty year agreement under which APS and PacifiCorp engage in one-for-one seasonal capacity exchanges. APS receives electricity from PacifiCorp during APS' summer peak season. APS will have 480 MW of generating capacity available to it under the agreements until 2020. In 1999, APS had 480 MW of generating capacity available from PacifiCorp and APS received approximately 572,382 MWh of energy under the capacity exchange.
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
During the years 1997 through 1999, APS incurred approximately $962 million in capital expenditures. Utility capital expenditures for the years 2000 through 2002 are expected to be primarily for expanding transmission and distribution capabilities to meet customer growth, upgrading existing facilities, and for environmental purposes. Capitalized expenditures, including expenditures for environmental control facilities, for the years 2000 through 2002 have been estimated as follows:
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) BY YEAR BY MAJOR FACILITIES ------- ------------------- 2000 $ 384 Production $ 255 2001 342 Transmission and Distribution 691 2002 334 General 114 ------ ------ Total $1,060 Total $1,060 ====== ======
The amounts for 2000 through 2002 exclude capitalized interest costs and include capitalized property taxes and about $30-$35 million each year for nuclear fuel. APS conducts a continuing review of its construction program.
MORTGAGE REPLACEMENT FUND REQUIREMENTS
So long as any of APS' first mortgage bonds are outstanding, APS is required for each calendar year to deposit with the trustee under its mortgage cash in a formularized amount related to net additions to its mortgaged utility plant. APS may satisfy all or any part of this "replacement fund" requirement by utilizing redeemed or retired bonds, net property additions, or property retirements. For 1999, the replacement fund requirement amounted to approximately $143 million. Certain of the bonds APS has issued under the mortgage that are callable prior to maturity are redeemable at their par value plus accrued interest with cash APS deposits in the replacement fund. This is subject in many cases to a period of time after the original issuance of the bonds during which they may not be so redeemed.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
EPA ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
CLEAN AIR ACT. APS is subject to a number of requirements under the Clean Air Act. Pursuant to the Clean Air Act, the EPA adopted regulations that address visibility impairment in certain federally-protected areas which can be reasonably attributed to specific sources. In September 1991, the EPA issued a final rule that limited sulfur dioxide emissions at NGS. One NGS unit had to comply with this rule in 1997, one in 1998, and the last unit in 1999. Salt River Project is the NGS operating agent. Salt River Project estimates a capital cost of $430 million and annual operations and maintenance costs of approximately $14 million for all three units, for NGS to meet these requirements. APS is required to fund 14% of these expenditures. About all of these capital costs have been incurred.
The Clean Air Act also addresses, among other things:
* "acid rain," * visibility in certain specified areas, * hazardous air pollutants and * areas that have not attained national ambient air quality standards.
With respect to "acid rain," the Clean Air Act establishes a system of sulfur dioxide emissions "allowances." Each existing utility unit is granted a certain number of "allowances." For Phase II plants, which include APS' plants, allowances will be required beginning in the year 2000 to operate the plants. Based on EPA allowance allocations,
APS has sufficient allowances to permit continued operation of its plants at current levels without installing additional equipment.
The Clean Air Act also requires the EPA to set nitrogen oxides emissions limitations. These limitations require certain plants to install additional pollution control equipment. In December 1996, the EPA issued rules for nitrogen oxides emissions limitations that would have required APS to install additional pollution control equipment at Four Corners by January 1, 2000. On February 14, 1997, APS filed a Petition for Review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. APS alleged that the EPA improperly classified Four Corners Unit 4 in these rules, thereby subjecting Unit 4 to a more stringent emission limitation. ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY V. UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, No. 97-1091. In February 1998, the Court vacated the Unit 4 emission limitation and remanded the issue to EPA for reconsideration. In December 1999, EPA's direct final rule, which classified Four Corners Unit 4 as APS had proposed, became final. APS does not currently expect this rule to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.
With respect to protection of visibility in certain specified areas, the Clean Air Act requires the EPA to conduct a study concerning visibility impairment in those areas and to identify sources contributing to such impairment. Interim findings of this study indicate that any beneficial effect on visibility as a result of the Clean Air Act would be offset by expected population and industry growth. The Clean Air Act also requires EPA to establish a "Grand Canyon Visibility Transport Commission" to complete a study on visibility impairment in the "Golden Circle of National Parks" in the Colorado Plateau. NGS, Cholla, and Four Corners are located near the Golden Circle of National Parks. The Commission completed its study and on June 10, 1996 submitted its final recommendations to the EPA.
On April 22, 1999, the EPA announced final regional haze rules. These new regulations require states to submit, by 2008, implementation plans containing requirements to eliminate all man-made emissions causing visibility impairment in certain specified areas, including the Golden Circle of National Parks in the Colorado Plateau. The 2008 implementation plans must also include consideration and potential application of best available retrofit technology ("BART") for major stationary sources which came into operation between August 1962 and August 1977, such as the Navajo Generating Station, Cholla Power Plant and Four Corners Power Plant. The nine western states and tribes that participated in the Grand Canyon Visibility Transport Commission process will have the option to follow an alternate implementation plan and schedule for areas considered by the Commission. Under this option, those states and tribes would submit implementation plans by 2003, which would incorporate the emission reduction scheme adopted in the Commission's recommendations and application of BART by 2018, possibly using an emission trading program. Any states and tribes that implement this option will also have to submit revised implementation plans in 2008 to address visibility in certain specified areas that were not considered by the Commission. Because Arizona and the Navajo Nation have the discretion to choose between the national or Commission options and a variety of pollution controls to meet the requirements of the regional haze rules, the actual impact on APS cannot be determined at this time.
Also, in July 1997, EPA promulgated final National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter. Pursuant to the rules, the ozone standard is more stringent and a new ambient standard for very fine particles has been established. Congress has enacted legislation that could delay the implementation of regional haze requirements and the particulate matter ambient standard. These standards were challenged and the court determined that EPA's promulgation of the standards violated the constitutional prohibition on delegation of legislative power. The court remanded the ozone standard, vacated the coarse particulate matter standard, and invited the parties to brief the court on vacating or remanding the fine particulate matter standard. APS cannot currently predict EPA's response to this decision. Because the actual level of emissions controls, if any, for any unit cannot be determined at this time, APS currently cannot estimate the capital expenditures, if any, which would result from the final rules. However, APS does not currently expect these rules to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.
With respect to hazardous air pollutants emitted by electric utility steam generating units, the Clean Air Act requires two studies. The results of the first study indicated an impact from mercury emissions from such units in certain unspecified areas. The EPA has not yet stated whether or not mercury emissions limitations will be
imposed. Secondly, the EPA will complete a general study by December 2000 concerning the necessity of regulating hazardous air pollutant emissions from such units under the Clean Air Act. Because APS cannot speculate as to the ultimate requirements by the EPA, APS cannot currently estimate the capital expenditures, if any, which may be required as a result of these studies.
Certain aspects of the Clean Air Act may require APS to make related expenditures, such as permit fees. APS does not expect any of these to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.
FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN. In September 1999, the EPA proposed a Federal Implementation Plan ("FIP") to set air quality standards at certain power plants, including the Navajo Generating Station and the Four Corners Power Plant. The comment period on this proposal ended in November 1999. The FIP is similar to current Arizona regulation of NGS and New Mexico regulation of Four Corners, with minor modifications. APS does not currently expect FIP to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.
SUPERFUND. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("Superfund") establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil, water, or air. Those who generated, transported, or disposed of hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among those who are potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"). PRPs may be strictly, and often jointly and severally, liable for the cost of any necessary remediation of the substances. The EPA had previously advised APS that the EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Indian Bend Wash Superfund Site, South Area. Our Ocotillo Power Plant is located in this area. APS is in the process of conducting an investigation to determine the extent and scope of contamination at the plant site. Based on the information to date, including available insurance coverage and an EPA estimate of cleanup costs, APS does not expect this matter to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.
MANUFACTURED GAS PLANT SITES. APS is currently investigating properties which APS now owns or which were at one time owned by APS or its corporate predecessors, that were at one time sites of, or sites associated with, manufactured gas plants. The purpose of this investigation is to determine if:
* waste materials are present * such materials constitute an environmental or health risk and * APS has any responsibility for remedial action.
Where appropriate, APS has begun remediation of certain of these sites. APS does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.
PURPORTED NAVAJO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
Four Corners and NGS are located on the Navajo Reservation and are held under easements granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo Nation. APS is the Four Corners operating agent. APS owns a 100% interest in Four Corners Units 1, 2, and 3, and a 15% interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5. APS owns a 14% interest in NGS Units 1, 2, and 3.
In July 1995, the Navajo Nation enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively, the "Acts"). Pursuant to the Acts, the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency is authorized to promulgate regulations covering air quality, drinking water, and pesticide activities, including those that occur at Four Corners and NGS. By separate letters dated October 12 and October 13, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the NGS participants requested the United States Secretary of the Interior to resolve their dispute with the Navajo Nation regarding whether or not the Acts apply to operations of Four Corners and NGS. On October 17, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the NGS participants each filed a lawsuit in the District Court of the Navajo Nation, Window Rock District, seeking, among other things, a declaratory judgment that
* their respective leases and federal easements preclude the application of the Acts to the operations of Four Corners and NGS and * the Navajo Nation and its agencies and courts lack adjudicatory jurisdiction to determine the enforceability of the Acts as applied to Four Corners and NGS.
On October 18, 1995, the Navajo Nation and the Four Corners and NGS participants agreed to indefinitely stay these proceedings so that the parties may attempt to resolve the dispute without litigation. The Secretary and the Court have stayed these proceedings pursuant to a request by the parties. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.
In February 1998, the EPA promulgated regulations specifying those provisions of the Clean Air Act for which it is appropriate to treat Indian tribes in the same manner as states. The EPA indicated that it believes that the Clean Air Act generally would supersede pre-existing binding agreements that may limit the scope of tribal authority over reservations. On April 10, 1998, APS filed a Petition for Review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY V. UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, No. 98-1196. On February 19, 1999, the EPA promulgated regulations setting forth the EPA's approach to issuing Federal operating permits to covered stationary sources on Indian reservations. On April 15, 1999, APS filed a Petition for Review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY V. UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, No. 99-1146.
WATER SUPPLY
Assured supplies of water are important for APS' generating plants. At the present time, APS has adequate water to meet its needs. However, conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court actions in recent years.
Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS' operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings which will require a number of years to resolve. APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding before a state court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water for Four Corners is derived. (STATE OF NEW MEXICO, IN THE RELATION OF S.E. REYNOLDS, STATE ENGINEER VS. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CITY OF FARMINGTON, UTAH INTERNATIONAL, INC., ET AL., San Juan County, New Mexico, District Court No. 75-184). An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for a then-agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.
A summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in the Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Maricopa County Superior Court. (IN RE THE GENERAL ADJUDICATION OF ALL RIGHTS TO USE WATER IN THE GILA RIVER SYSTEM AND SOURCE, Supreme Court Nos. WC-79-0001 through WC-79-0004 (Consolidated) [WC-1, WC-2, WC-3 and WC-4 (Consolidated)], Maricopa County Nos. W-1, W-2, W-3 and W-4 (Consolidated)). Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APS' rights and the rights of the Palo Verde participants to the use of groundwater and effluent at Palo Verde is potentially at issue in this action. As project manager of Palo Verde, APS filed claims that dispute the court's jurisdiction over the Palo Verde participants' groundwater rights and their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. Three of APS' less-utilized power plants are also located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APS' claims dispute the court's jurisdiction over its groundwater rights with respect to these plants. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. The Arizona Supreme Court recently issued a decision confirming that certain groundwater rights may be available to the federal government and Indian tribes. APS and other parties have petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for review of this decision. Another issue important to the claims is pending on appeal to the Arizona Supreme Court. No trial date concerning APS' water rights claims has been set in this matter.
APS has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County Superior Court. (IN RE THE GENERAL ADJUDICATION OF ALL RIGHTS TO USE WATER IN THE LITTLE COLORADO RIVER SYSTEM AND SOURCE, Supreme Court No. WC-79-0006 WC-6, Apache County No. 6417). APS' groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic area subject to the adjudication and is therefore potentially at issue in the case. APS' claims dispute the court's jurisdiction over its groundwater rights. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. The parties are in the process of settlement negotiations with respect to this matter. No trial date concerning APS' water rights claims has been set in this matter.
Although the foregoing matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS expects that the described litigation will not have a material adverse impact on its financial position or results of operations.
BUSINESS OF SUNCOR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
SunCor was incorporated in 1965 under the laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged primarily in the acquisition, ownership, development, operation, and sale of land and other real property, including homes and commercial buildings. The principal executive offices of SunCor are located at 3838 North Central, Suite 1500, Phoenix, Arizona 85012 (telephone 602-285-6800). SunCor and its subsidiaries, excluding SunCor Resort & Golf Management, Inc. ("Resort Management"), employ approximately 140 persons. Resort Management, which manages the Wigwam Resort and Country Club (the "Wigwam"), employs between 620 and 750 persons at the Wigwam, depending on the Wigwam's operating season. In addition, Resort Management operates four golf courses and three family entertainment operations, which together employ about 350 people.
SunCor's assets consist primarily of land and improvements and other real estate investments. SunCor's major asset is the Palm Valley project, which consists of over 7,000 acres and is located west of Phoenix in the area of Goodyear/Litchfield Park, Arizona ("Palm Valley"). SunCor has completed the master plan for development of Palm Valley. There has been significant residential and commercial development at Palm Valley by SunCor and by other developers that have acquired land from SunCor or entered into joint ventures with SunCor. Development at Palm Valley currently includes residential communities, including a retirement community, with golf courses, hotels, restaurants, commercial and retail outlets, a hospital, and assisted-care facilities.
Other SunCor projects under development include seven master-planned communities and four commercial projects. The four commercial projects and four of the master-planned communities are located in the Phoenix area. Other master-planned communities are located near Sedona, Arizona, St. George, Utah, and Santa Fe, New Mexico. Several of the master-plan and commercial projects are joint ventures with other developers, financial partners, or landowners.
For the past three years, SunCor's operating revenues were about: 1999, $130.2 million; 1998, $125.4 million; and 1997, $123.6 million. For those same periods, SunCor's net income was about: 1999, $6.1 million; 1998, $44.7 million; and 1997, $5.3 million. About $37.2 million of SunCor's 1998 net income represents income related to the recognition of a deferred tax asset. The deferred tax asset relates to net operating losses and book/tax basis differences. SunCor is expected to realize these benefits in subsequent periods pursuant to an intercompany tax allocation agreement. On a consolidated basis, there was no impact to consolidated net income. SunCor's capital needs consist primarily of capital expenditures for land development and home construction for SunCor's homebuilding subsidiary, Golden Heritage Homes, Inc. On the basis of projects now under development, SunCor expects capital needs over the next three years to be 2000, $53 million; 2001, $43 million; and 2002, $51 million.
At December 31, 1999, SunCor had total assets of about $437 million. See Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for information regarding SunCor's long-term debt. SunCor intends to continue its focus on real estate development in homebuilding and the development of residential, commercial, and industrial projects.
BUSINESS OF EL DORADO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
El Dorado was incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged principally in the business of making equity investments in other companies. El Dorado's short-term goal is to convert its venture capital portfolio to cash as quickly and as advantageously as possible. On a long-term basis, we may use El Dorado, when appropriate, as our subsidiary for new ventures that are strategic to our principal business of generating, distributing, and marketing electricity. El Dorado's offices are located at 400 East Van Buren Street, Suite 800, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone 602-379-2589).
At December 31, 1999, El Dorado had an investment in a venture capital partnership at a carrying amount of $21.3 million. In addition, El Dorado had a 54% interest in a privately held company and limited partnership interests in two professional sports teams.
For the past three years, El Dorado's net income was: $11.5 million in 1999, $4.5 million in 1998, and $8.2 million in 1997. At December 31, 1999, El Dorado had total assets of $36.6 million.
BUSINESS OF APS ENERGY SERVICES COMPANY, INC.
APS Energy Services was incorporated in 1998 under the laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged principally in the business of selling unregulated power and related services. APS Energy Services' principal offices are located at 400 East Van Buren Street, Station 8103, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone (602) 250-5000).
BUSINESS OF PINNACLE WEST ENERGY CORPORATION
Pinnacle West Energy Corporation was incorporated in 1999 under the laws of the State of Arizona and is engaged principally in the business of the development and production of wholesale energy. Pinnacle West Energy is the subsidiary through which we intend to conduct our future unregulated generation operations. Pinnacle West Energy's principal offices are located at 400 North Fifth Street, Station 8987, Phoenix, Arizona 85004 (telephone (602) 250-4145).
Pinnacle West Energy's capital expenditures in 1999 were $21 million. Projected capital expenditures are $152 million in 2000; $240 million in 2001; and $245 million in 2002.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
ACCREDITED CAPACITY
APS' present generating facilities have an accredited capacity as follows:
Capacity(kW) ------------ Coal: Units 1, 2, and 3 at Four Corners ............................ 560,000 15% owned Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners ...................... 222,000 Units 1, 2, and 3 at Cholla Plant ............................ 615,000 14% owned Units 1, 2, and 3 at the Navajo Plant .............. 315,000 --------- 1,712,000 --------- Gas or Oil: Two steam units at Ocotillo and two steam units at Saguaro.... 435,000(1) Eleven combustion turbine units .............................. 493,000 Three combined cycle units ................................... 255,000 --------- 1,183,000 --------- Nuclear: 29.1% owned or leased Units 1, 2, and 3 at Palo Verde ........ 1,086,300 ---------
Other .......................................................... 5,600 ---------
Total ........................................................ 3,986,900 ========= - ---------- (1) West Phoenix steam units (108,300 kW) are currently mothballed.
---------- RESERVE MARGIN
APS' 1999 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 24, 1999 at 4,934,700 kW, compared to the 1998 peak of 5,027,000 kW recorded on July 16. Taking into account additional capacity then available to APS under traditional long-term purchase power contracts as well as APS' own generating capacity, APS' capability of meeting system demand on August 24, 1999 amounted to 4,754,600 kW, for an installed reserve margin of (4.4%). The power actually available to APS from its resources fluctuates from time to time due in part to planned outages and technical problems. The available capacity from sources actually operable at the time of the 1999 peak amounted to 3,587,100 kW, for a margin of (27.5%). Firm purchases, including short-term seasonal purchases, totaling 1,643,000 kW were in place at the time of the peak ensuring the ability to meet the load requirement, with an actual reserve margin of 9.1%.
PLANT SITES LEASED FROM NAVAJO NATION
LEASES NGS and Four Corners are located on land held under easements from the federal government and also under leases from the Navajo Nation. These are long term agreements with options to extend, and we do not believe that the risk with respect to enforcement of these easements and leases is material. The majority of coal contracted for use in these plants and certain associated transmission lines are also located on Indian reservations. See "Generating Fuel and Purchased Power -- Coal Supply" in Item 1.
TAX AND ROYALTY See "Generating Fuel and Purchased Power -- Coal Supply" in Item 1 for a discussion of changes in the amount of royalty payments and expiration of tax waivers under the NGS and Four Corners leases.
PALO VERDE NUCLEAR GENERATING STATION
PALO VERDE LEASES
See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of three sale and leaseback transactions related to Palo Verde Unit 2.
REGULATORY
Operation of each of the three Palo Verde units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986, and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses, each valid for a period of approximately 40 years, authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate the three Palo Verde units at full power.
NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING COSTS
The NRC recently amended its rules on financial assurance requirements for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. The amended rules became effective on November 23, 1998. The amended rules provide that a licensee may use an external sinking fund as the exclusive financial assurance mechanism if the licensee recovers estimated total decommissioning costs through cost of service rates or through a "non-bypassable charge." Other mechanisms are prescribed, including prepayment, if the requirements for exclusive reliance on the external sinking fund mechanism are not met. APS currently relies on the external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2, and 3. The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2, and 3 are currently included in ACC jurisdictional rates. ACC rules regarding the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) currently provide that decommissioning costs would be recovered through a non-bypassable "system benefits" charge, which would allow APS to maintain its external sinking fund mechanism. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information about nuclear decommissioning costs.
PALO VERDE LIABILITY AND INSURANCE MATTERS
See "Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station" in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.
OTHER INFORMATION REGARDING PROPERTIES
See "Environmental Matters" and "Water Supply" in Item 1 with respect to matters having possible impact on the operation of certain of APS' power plants.
See "Construction Program" in Item 1 and "Financial Review -- Capital Needs and Resources" in Item 7 for a discussion of APS' construction plans.
See Notes 6, 10, and 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 with respect to property of the Company not held in fee or held subject to any major encumbrance.
INFORMATION REGARDING PROPERTIES OF SUNCOR
See "Business of SunCor Development Company" for information regarding SunCor's properties.
[MAP PAGE]
In accordance with Item 304 of Regulation S-T of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, APS' Service Territory map contained in this Form 10-K is a map of the State of Arizona showing APS' service area, the location of its major power plants and principal transmission lines, and the location of transmission lines operated by APS for others. The major power plants shown on such map are the Navajo Generating Station located in Coconino County, Arizona; the Four Corners Power Plant located near Farmington, New Mexico; the Cholla Power Plant, located in Navajo County, Arizona; the Yucca Power Plant, located near Yuma, Arizona; and the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station, located about 55 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona (each of which plants is reflected on such map as being jointly owned with other utilities), as well as the Ocotillo Power Plant and West Phoenix Power Plant, each located near Phoenix, Arizona, and the Saguaro Power Plant, located near Tucson, Arizona. APS' major transmission lines shown on such map are reflected as running between the power plants named above and certain major cities in the State of Arizona. The transmission lines operated for others shown on such map are reflected as running from the Four Corners Plant through a portion of northern Arizona to the California border.
ITEM 3.