Item 2 - Properties - Development and Sale of Residential Lots; and Item 7 -- Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition -- Liquidity and Capital Resources.
The timing of the resumption of liquidating distributions will depend largely upon the timing of future sales of the Partnership's remaining land (developed or undeveloped) and future collections of contingent receivables relating to a prior sale of a utility plant. See Item 2 -- Properties, for a discussion of other sources of and anticipated timing of the receipt of revenue which will affect future distributions.
(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments
Not applicable.
(c) Narrative Description Of The Business
Regulation
Development and sales operations of the Partnership or by potential purchasers of real estate from the Partnership have been subject to regulation by a number of local, state and federal agencies concerning the nature and extent of improvements, and compliance with zoning regulations, building codes, health requirements and environmental protection. The Partnership believes that it has been in substantial compliance with all such laws and regulations which affect its properties and that it has developed the properties to the extent required by contract or law. If such laws or regulations are amended, in particular those concerning environmental protection, the cost of compliance could be increased. Reference is made to the discussion concerning the impact of land use regulatory issues affecting salability of certain properties remaining in Palm Beach County in Item 2 -- Properties -- "Acreage in the Vicinity of the Village."
Competition
The real estate business conducted by the Partnership is highly competitive. The Partnership's sales of its remaining land will compete with surrounding developments, and with owners of tracts of land in the area of all its properties. There are substantial tracts of vacant land and land under development in the general area of most of the Partnership's remaining real estate. These competitive considerations could affect the decisions of potential purchasers of the Partnership's remaining properties.
The Partnership has historically marketed its properties through direct mail advertising to major brokers and developers, advertisements in major regional newspapers and direct contacts between officers of the Managing General Partner and real estate developers and brokers. The Partnership is currently marketing its remaining properties through local real estate brokers, including Randy Rieger, who served as interim Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Partnership's managing general partner between September 1995 and February 1996. Mr. Rieger currently provides services as an independent consultant to the Partnership for management services in addition to ongoing brokerage services. See Item 13 -- "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
Impact of General Economic Conditions
The development and sale of real estate occurs within a historically cyclical market, and is significantly influenced by general economic conditions. Sales of housing units and sales of tracts to builders are particularly affected by the costs and availability of mortgage financing and the rise and fall of interest rates in general. Interest rates have moved in a narrow range during the past year, and declined slightly in December 1995. If significant increases occur in the future, the real estate market could suffer as a result.
Personnel
As of January 31, 1997, Stein Management Company, Inc. ("Steinco") the Managing General Partner, employed 2 persons.
Office Facilities
The Partnership's executive headquarters are located at 2501 S. Ocean Drive, Hollywood, Florida 33019. The premises are owned by an affiliate of Hasam Realty Limited Partnership ("Hasam L.P."), a general partner of the Partnership, and are being made available to the Partnership as an accommodation without charge.
Item 2. Properties
Palm Beach County, Florida
The Company originally owned approximately 28,000 acres in Palm Beach County, in southeastern Florida, approximately 4,200 of which were located within the Village.
The Villaqe of Royal Palm Beach
The Village, an incorporated municipality, is approximately eight miles from the Palm Beach International Airport and eleven miles west of Palm Beach. Two major area highways, Southern Boulevard and Okeechobee Road, lead directly from Palm Beach through West Palm Beach to the Village. The Village has a population of approximately 16,000 and is primarily residential. The Village has been developed in accordance with a master plan and includes schools, shopping facilities, community recreation areas, and its own police and fire departments.
The Crestwood Tract
Although the Partnership had previously sold nearly all of its land in the Village, it reacquired in 1992, through foreclosure of a defaulted purchase money mortgage, the 165 acre Crestwood Tract of undeveloped land in the Village. When reacquired, the Crestwood Tract was zoned and preliminary approval had been obtained for the development of 172 single-family homesites (the "Single Family Tract") and 625 multi-family units. The Crestwood Tract is bisected by a principal Village road and has access to all utilities, but is otherwise undeveloped with the exception of the existence of portions of a drainage system.
Commercial Land within the Crestwood Tract
In order to enhance the market value of the Crestwood Tract, the Partnership obtained the rezoning of a 28 acre portion of the Crestwood Tract previously zoned for multi-family housing to permit the Partnership to develop a 14 acre portion for use as a shopping center site. The Partnership received site-plan approval in mid-1996. The Partnership has executed an agreement to sell the entire 28 acre portion to an unaffiliated shopping center developer ("Purchaser") in four phases.
The first phase relates to an 11.8 acre tract to be sold for $3.00 per square foot (approximately $1,542,024 subject to final survey). The closing on this phase was subject to soil testing, availability of sufficient utility connections, environmental matters, site-plan approval and approval of the premises by a major supermarket chain as a site for a new supermarket. All of such conditions have now been satisfied, the parties are awaiting the issuance of a building permit and the satisfaction of other conditions which are considered likely to occur during January, 1997. The closing is therefore expected to take place by the end of February, 1997. Were the Purchaser to refuse to close, which is considered highly unlikely, its only liability would be its loss of deposits presently aggregating $71,000.
The second and third phases consist of two additional parcels in the 14 acre portion rezoned as described above, and adjoin the shopping center site, but as to which building permits are not expected to be available for approximately four years. As to such parcels, the Partnership has agreed, during a five-year period following the pending closing on the first phase, to accord an option to the Purchaser to acquire the parcels, with the price to be paid dependent on the terms upon which the Purchaser leases or sells such parcels to an unaffiliated third party. In such event the Purchaser will pay to the Partnership,(i) in the event of a lease, a sum equal to the five times the average annual rental under the lease, and (ii) in the event of a sale, 50% of the net proceeds of the sale; provided that the Partnership is not required to accept less than $3.50 per square foot. If the Partnership itself obtains an unsolicited offer to lease or purchase the parcels which the Partnership desires to accept, the Purchaser may exercise a right of first refusal in which case the Partnership must accept (i) in the event of a lease, a sum equal to five times the average annual rental to be paid by the third party during the first five years of the proposed lease, and (ii) in the event of a sale, 50% of the net proceeds to be paid by the third party.
The final phase relates to a contiguous 14-acre parcel as to which rezoning from the current multi-family to commercial use is not considered feasible for several years. The Purchaser has been granted an option ending four years after the first closing to acquire this parcel at $3.50 per square foot (approximately $2,129,000 subject to survey). However, after two years from the first closing, the Partnership for multi-family residential purposes only, for a price which is less than the option price, subject to the Purchaser's right of first refusal at the same price.
Randy Rieger, who became vice-president of the Partnership's managing general partner in September, 1995 for an interim period following the death of its President, is entitled to a commission of 10% of the net proceeds to the Partnership on all of the above-described transactions. See Item 13.
Residential Lots within the Crestwood Tract
As a result of management's decision to develop portions of the Crestwood Tract, the Partnership has replanned the configuration of the entire tract. This project has included a redesign of the Single Family Tract, and the Partnership has now received final plat approval to increase to 198 the number of residential lots which may be developed for single family use (hereinafter the "Residential Tract." "Development," as such term is applied to single-family lots, entails the completion of all necessary zoning, land use, environmental and other required regulatory procedures, the installation of roads and utility connections to each lot and the provision of drainage facilities.
In 1995, the Partnership completed the off-site utility infrastructure for the entire Crestwood Tract. The cost of such construction, approximating $975,000, was financed with the proceeds of a $975,000 construction loan from Union Bank of Florida, ("Union Bank Loan " -- See Item 13 -"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"). See Item 7 -Management Discussion and Analysis -- "Liquidity." Under the terms of the Union Bank Loan, the Partnership is paying interest at a rate equal to 2% above the bank's prime lending rate. The Union Bank's aggregate commitment in respect of the Residential Tract, originally $2,175,000, has been increased to $2,625,000 (which includes the $975,000 advanced for infrastructure for the entire Crestwood Tract and $350,000 advanced for on-site improvement of Phase I of the Residential Tract (see below.) The Union Bank Loan, which is secured by a first mortgage on the 198 undeveloped homesites, is due in full on January 31, 1998. The Partnership is required to apply $20,000 of the proceeds of each lot sale to payment of the Union Bank Loan.
The Partnership is developing the residential lots in three phases, of which Phase I, comprising 32 lots, has been developed with on-site improvements, financed by $350,000 in borrowings under the Union Bank Loan. Five of the residential lots in Phase I were purchased for the aggregate sum of $170,000 by Regency Homes, Inc. under an option which covered all 32 lots. The option as to the balance of the lots has terminated because of Regency's failure to purchase a specified minimum number of lots per month, although the Partnership continues to negotiate with Regency and others for the sale of individual lots.
In addition, on August 12, 1996, the Partnership executed an agreement with Lennar Homes, Inc. ("Lennar"), a prominent South Florida developer, for the purchase of 86 lots in Phase II of the Residential Tract for an aggregate of $2,451,000. The Partnership holds deposits under letters of credit aggregating $490,200. The agreement contemplates that all lots will be taken and paid for over an 18-month period after completion by the Partnership of development work. It is anticipated that closing on at least 22 of the lots will occur during the summer of 1997, resulting in gross proceeds to the Partnership of approximately $612,000.
The Partnership intends to finance on-site development of the 166 lots in Phases II and III of the Residential Tract, anticipated to cost in the range of $1.9 million, with the balance of the borrowing available under the Union Bank Loan and the net proceeds of a public bond financing effected in November, 1996 by the Indian Trail Water Control District (the "District"), which produced net available funds for the project of approximately $1,074,000. The bonds are a direct obligation of the District and not of the Partnership, and interest and principal on the bonds will payable from taxes levied on the lots in the Residential Tract. Such bond issue resulted in an increase in an aggregate real estate tax of approximately $117,000 per annum on the entire Residential Tract, of which amount $600 is allocable to each lot individually.
Other Acreage within the Village
In March, 1993 the Partnership reacquired a separate tract of 4.54 acres in the Village by accepting a deed in lieu of foreclosure on a mortgage with a principal balance of $300,000 (See Item 7 --"Foreclosure Transactions"). This parcel is bordered by a golf course and a principal Village road, is zoned for approximately 100 multi-family residential units and is being offered for sale in its present state without further development. An agreement to sell this acreage for $325,000 was terminated by the purchaser in November 1996 and the property is currently being remarketed
Utility Contingent Receivable
In 1983 the Partnership's Predecessor Company sold to the Village of Royal Palm Beach a water and sewage treatment system servicing the Village. Pursuant to the agreement of sale ("Utility Contract"), the Predecessor company received $2,510,000 on closing, and was entitled to future payments to a maximum of $10,900,000 as future connections, measured by consumption increases, were made to the system over a period ending August, 2001. As of September 30, 1995, $5,365,000 had not been received or earned. The Utility Contract also provided for contingent extension periods aggregating not more than three additional years to compensate for possible future governmental building moratoriums or water use restrictions. The Partnership's consultants have advised it that the term has been extended through 2003 as a result of water usage restrictions imposed by the South Florida Water Management District in 1990 and 1991 and moratorium actions taken by the Village of Royal Palm Beach in 1985 and 1986. The Utility Contract also calls for payments to the Partnership equal to 25% of any "Guaranteed Revenues" (payment by developers to secure guaranteed allocations of plant capacity) collected by the Village to a maximum payment of $500,000, of which $262,657 has already been received. It is not possible to predict the amount or timing of future revenues to the Partnership under this program.
To date, the Partnership has received the following Utility Contract payments:
- ---------------------------------- * The Partnership anticipates receipt of $129,000 in late January, 1997.
The Utility Contract with extensions management believes have already accumulated will expire in 2003, subject to extensions of up to one additional year. The ability of the Partnership to realize the maximum price is dependent upon the rate at which the population in the Village grows, and levels of water consumption which in turn depends upon economic, social and climatic factors which cannot be predicted. Historically, water consumption tends to increase based upon increases in population. During most of fiscal 1990, however, due to drought conditions existing in most Southern Florida, the South Florida Water Management District imposed mandatory water usage restrictions. The imposition of these restrictions resulted in a decrease in aggregate water consumption in the area from which the Partnership's receipts are projected while population was increasing.
Management believes that there remain sufficient potential new home water hookups in the area served by the utility to enable the Partnership to realize the maximum remaining $5,365,000 in contingent payments under the Utility Contract. There can be no assurance, particularly in view of the decline in payments from 1995 to 1996, that the rate of new construction or water consumption in such area will be sufficient to enable the Partnership to receive the full amount or even a substantial portion of such payments prior to the expiration of the contingent payment term.
Acreage in the Vicinity of the Village
Substantially all of the property previously owned by the Predecessor Company in Palm Beach County outside of the Village limits, originally aggregating approximately 23,800 acres, was sold under the Predecessor Company's retail installment sales program, which terminated prior to the inception of the Partnership. The Partnership currently retains three tracts in the vicinity of the Village.
The first tract originally consisted of 206 one-acre lots located approximately eight miles northwest of the Village. These lots have been improved with graded unpaved access roads and drainage facilities. One lot from this tract was sold during 1996 for $12,000.
In October, 1996, the County of Palm Beach Nature Conservancy purchased, for approximately $100,000, 18 lots within this parcel for use as a conservation easement. The County has also agreed to purchase an additional 16 such lots for $84,000, with a closing anticipated in late February, 1997. Assuming that this sale is closed, the Partnership will retain 171 lots in this tract.
Palm Beach County has adopted land development regulations under which new development will not be permitted unless adequate public facilities (such as roads) will be in place concurrently with the impacts of such development. The Indian Trail Water Control District ("District") is currently preparing a revised drainage plan which would result in an exemption for such lots from further compliance with such concurrency requirements and would allow the issuance of building permits for single-family residences on such lots. Such plan has been opposed by other governmental agencies, however, and it is uncertain whether the plan will be adopted. If the plan is not approved these lots may not be usable for residential purposes. Further, even assuming a favorable result, the administrative process leading to the availability of building permits cannot be expected to be completed before mid-1998.
The second tract, consisting of 470 acres, had been reserved for use by the District, in part, as a water retention area for such revised drainage plan. The Partnership is presently evaluating possible alternative uses of this tract, which contains a significant amount of wetlands. Since the use of this land is also dependent on the extension of roads, and development activity on this tract may meet with opposition from governmental agencies concerned with wildlife and wetlands preservation, it is not possible to estimate the realizable value of this land. However, in 1996 the Partnership rejected an offer of $1,100,000 for this tract and alternatives to such sale are being examined with a view to obtaining a higher price. Accordingly, management is of the opinion that its realizable value is in excess of its current book value of $213,421.
The timing of future sales of the land discussed above, the manner in which they may be developed and the ultimate realizable prices for this land are dependent upon a complex and interrelated number of factors arising out of governmental regulations concerning permissible land use.
The third tract in the vicinity of the Village the Partnership previously held a disputed claim to approximately 24 acres of undeveloped land. This claim had not originally been accorded value on the Partnership's balance sheet and was considered to have little or no value. During 1994, in connection with the resolution of this claim with adjoining land owners, and in order to give value to such claim, the Partnership relinquished a portion of its claim,
acquired 5 adjoining acres for $141,879, and executed a joint development agreement with one of such adjoining landowners relating to the Partnership's acreage and such landowner's acreage (comprising approximately 22 acres in the aggregate of which the Partnership now owns approximately 12 acres). The Partnership and the joint developer have entered into an agreement to sell the entire combined parcel for a price of $1.90 per square foot, subject to survey, which would result in a gross selling price of approximately $1,986,000 (less selling commissions) of which the Partnership's share would be approximately $993,000. The sale is subject to the purchaser's ability to have the premises rezoned for use as a shopping center, approval of the premises as a site for a supermarket by a major supermarket chain, and the issuance of all necessary building and other permits, with a closing date (subject to all of the foregoing) no later than June 30, 1997. The agreement is also subject the ability of the Partnership to cause the owner of an adjoining residence, which is not owned by the Partnership or its joint developer, to sell such residence to the purchaser. There is no assurance that such permits will be obtained, nor can the Partnership predict whether the rezoning process, which involves proceedings before several governmental bodies, or the sale of the aforesaid residence, could be completed or obtained within the required time frame.
Hernando County, Florida
The Predecessor Company originally owned approximately 17,600 acres in Hernando County, Florida, located 56 miles from Tampa, with 13 miles of road frontage along U.S. Highway 19, a major area highway. In 1994 the Partnership sold a 14 acre tract in this area for $125,000. The Partnership presently retains approximately 20 acres in this area with negligible value.
Lake County, Florida
The Predecessor Company originally owned approximately 12,300 acres in Lake County, Florida, located in Central Florida on the outskirts of the Ocala National Forest approximately 39 miles from Ocala and 6 miles from Deland. Lake County is predominantly rural with a population of approximately 14,000. At September 30, 1992, the Partnership owned no property in Lake County; however, in March of 1993 the Partnership accepted a deed in lieu of foreclosure on a mortgage on a 1400 acre portion of this property with a principal balance of $706,000. See Item 7 -- "Foreclosure Transactions." Approximately 1,000 acres of this property which are remote, undeveloped and may be unsuited for any development, were sold by the Partnership for a cash price of $350,000 in June, 1993. The balance of the tract was sold in 1994 in two transactions for prices aggregating $360,000, of which $248,000 was represented by a purchase money mortgage payable over a five year term. In November 1995 this mortgage having a principal balance of $222,471 and deferred profit of $48,958, was sold for $168.962.
Item 3.