ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
THE ALDER GULCH AND EASTON-PACIFIC PROPERTIES.
OVERVIEW. The Company's Alder Gulch properties are located in the historic Alder Gulch area of the Virginia City Mining District in southwestern Montana, approximately 50 miles southeast of Butte, Montana. Gold was first discovered in the area in 1863. An estimated 2.5 million to 10 million ounces of gold have been produced from placer operations in Alder Gulch that extended from the town site of Summit 15 miles downstream to the town of Alder, Montana. The Company's Alder Gulch claims consist of 72 patented, 425 unpatented, and one state lease. The Company's Easton-Pacific properties within the Virginia City Mining District consist of 40 patented and 149 unpatented mining claims and two state leases. Another 39 patented and 65 unpatented claims are located near Pony and Norris, Montana. The claims were acquired September 1997 through the merger of Easton Pacific into the Company. In addition to the significant placer production that came from Alder Gulch, Gold has been produced from lode mines located on the Alder Gulch and Easton-Pacific properties since the late nineteenth century, although reliable production records are not available. The Company believes the historical mining activities and the geology of the District are indicative of large gold-bearing mineral systems, and that the district has a very high potential for additional discovery. With the acquisition of the Easton-Pacific claims in the Virginia City Mining District, by year-end, the Company's properties in the Virginia City Mining District consisted of 686 somewhat contiguous mining claims and three state mining leases covering an area approximately 21 square miles. The topography is mountainous, although the properties are seasonally accessible by road.
The Company's properties in the Virginia City Mining District are more particularly identified on the map which appears at page 9 of this report.
THE NATURE OF HANOVER'S INTEREST IN THE PROPERTIES. Hanover owns approximately one half of its 790 mining claims outright and pays rentals and royalties to the underlying landowner-lessors for the right to conduct mining activities on those claims it does not own. These payments in most cases are credited toward the purchase price of the claims under the purchase option provision of the leases.
If such payments are made, as is expected, Hanover will acquire ownership of the mining claims, and in some instances the entire real property interest of the landowner-lessor. Conversely, if such payments are not made, Hanover's interest in the claims will revert to the respective landowners.
The Company's obligations pursuant to these leases and purchase options were $7,407,000 at December 31, 1997, of which $1,468,000 is payable in 1998, $1,819,000 is payable in 1999, $2,878,000 is payable in 2000, $603,000 is payable in 2001, $603,000 is payable in 2002, and $36,000 is payable thereafter. Production royalty obligations with respect to these claims, which become payable once minerals are produced from the claims, range from 0.5% to 5% of net smelter returns. As previously noted, Neal A. Degerstrom, who is an affiliate of the Company, has guaranteed the payment of the Company's obligations to these landowner-lessors through September 7, 1998. The guaranty was given in connection with the Company's acquisition of Easton-Pacific.
The costs of maintaining the Company's mining properties has been borne exclusively by the Company since March of 1995, when Kennecott terminated its mining venture agreement with the Company. This cost has been substantial; during the three-year period ended December 31,1997, the Company has expended approximately $3,740,755 just to meet its rental and royalty obligations to the landowner-lessors of the properties. In addition, the Company has spent another $4,227,125 during these three years to support its operations and conduct limited exploration work, apart from the amounts required to maintain its properties. If the company is not able to secure a major mining partner for the properties, it will have to consider other development alternatives. These alternatives have not yet been identified.
MINERALIZATION OF THE COMPANY'S ALDER GULCH CLAIMS. Mineralization on the Company's Alder Gulch claims is hosted by Archean metamorphic rocks. These rocks have been subjected to one or more metamorphic events and subsequent orogenic folding and faulting. The Kearsarge-Apex mineralization occurs within a major shear zone cutting carbonate facies iron formation. Data compiled by the Company indicate that this mineralization is disseminated in the iron formation and irregularly distributed as high-grade gold zones within the shear. Gold is associated with quartz, iron carbonate, green mica, biotite, garnet, graphite, and pyrite. Post-metamorphic hydrothermal alteration indicates the possibility of additional types of mineralization in the area. Mineralization is disrupted by high and low angle post- mineral faulting.
A different kind of gold mineralization has been observed on certain claims in the Hungry Hollow area. Gold occurs in rock composed primarily of medium-to course grained potassium feldspar with layered and disseminated iron oxide. Assays commissioned by Hanover of this type of rock range from 0.111 to 0.299 ounces per ton. The extent of this rock type is uncertain, due to a general lack of outcropping rock in the area. The gold-bearing rock has been variously interpreted to be a primary sedimentary bed, a widespread potassic alteration of pre-existing gneiss, or an alteration of selvage along an undiscovered vein or shear. This area has not been tested by drilling.
Another different kind of gold mineralization has been observed at the Bartlett mine. Here, the mineralized rock is located along the hanging wall of a large silicified dolomite outcrop. According to historical records, production from the mine was small but high grade. Although the old mine workings are now inaccessible, samples collected from the mine dump area carry gold in concordant quartz-ankerite veins within the dolomite, and in graphitic-ankeritic shear zones along the contacts of the dolomitic marble. This kind of mineralization also occurs at the General Shafter and Pearl mines. Exploration drilling has intercepted mineralization in other targets as well. At the Lucas, Atlas, and South Bachelor targets, gold occurs in quartz-ankerite-pyrite breccias and stockwork vein zones with Kspar alteration selvages hosted by quartz-feldspar gneiss.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES ON THE ALDER GULCH CLAIMS. During 1993 and 1994 Kennecott conducted a surface drilling program on the Company's Alder Gulch claims. Eight core holes were drilled to test the Big Vein and the Kearsarge Vein. These holes encountered significant mineralization. During 1994 and 1995 the Company drove approximately 3,000 feet of lateral and cross cut workings in the Kearsarge and Apex mines. 23 core holes were drilled along and between the Big Vein and the Kearsarge Vein to evaluate and extend the mineralization encountered by Kennecott's drilling. This was supplemented by the drilling of four additional core holes along the Kearsarge-Apex shear zone in October of 1996.
Information compiled by the Company during 1996 included the results of mapping and sampling of the workings, lithologic logging of all underground drill holes, and splitting and assaying previously unassayed intervals of the holes. The drill holes intercept mineralization over a strike length of 1,000 feet with a thickness that varies from 100 to 200 feet and a vertical extent of at least 480 feet. The deepest hole ends in mineralization. Mineralization is open in all directions, particularly to depth. The following table sets forth information concerning drill holes representative of the grades and thickness encountered at the Kearsarge- Apex Shear Zone and the Atlas, Lucas, and South Bachelor Targets.
Based on the Company's examination of the drill core, the underground workings, and the geology maps and cross sections, management believes that the mineral system is more extensive than two parallel vein systems. The Big Vein and Kearsarge Vein and the interval between these structures are mineralized. The mineralization occurs in lenticular shaped bodies that vary in thickness along strike and dip. Additional drilling, however, will be required to detail the configuration of the mineralization and to define its limits in three dimensions. For this reason, this mineralization is not considered a reserve. The size of the mineralized deposit to an average depth of 500 feet below the surface was estimated by Kennecott to be 6,000,000 tons with an average grade of 0.083 ounces of gold per ton. The thickness and grade of mineralization, combined with metallurgical studies indicate that open pit mining and a gravity processing system followed by carbon-in-leach milling would be effective and efficient methods for extracting the resource. During 1997 the Company hired five independent consulting geologists to map the surface geology of 21 square miles of property and collect over 800 new rock samples assayed by Bondar Clegg. The Company also contracted Geoterrex Dighem to fly an airborne geophysical survey over 41 square miles of the Virginia City Mining District and the surrounding areas. Maps of the magnetic and electromagnetic character of the rocks were produced from the survey and identify previously unknown beds of iron formation, ultramafic intrusions and magnetite bearing felsic gneiss. Conductivity anomalies at the Kearsarge mine and the Pacific mine indicate that mineralization may extend beyond areas drilled. New targets are indicated where strong conductors correspond with structural intersections. The Company expects to conduct exploration drilling in 1998.
EASTON-PACIFIC MINING PROPERTIES.
OVERVIEW. The Easton Pacific properties in the Virginia City Mining District cover the upper part of Brown's Gulch, Hungry Hollow and Barton Gulch. In addition to these claims the Company acquired an additional 39 patented and 65 unpatented claims near Pony and Norris, Montana, as a result of the Company's acquisition and merger of Easton-Pacific. Pony and Norris are some 35 miles northwest of Virginia City. Most of the claims are owned outright, while some require payment of rents or royalties to landowner-lessors under various lease and option agreements. Land payments and related claim fees payable by Easton-Pacific during 1998 are approximately $15,000, and future payments are approximately $278,000 over the next two years.
Where there are production royalty obligations with respect to these claims, the royalties become payable once minerals are produced, and range from 5% to 7%.
HISTORICAL MINING ACTIVITIES. Historic mines on the Easton Pacific mining properties include the Easton, Pacific, High Up, Irene, Marietta, Metallic, and Little Lode mines. The Easton mine was at one time the largest historic lode producer in the Virginia City Mining District, with recorded production of approximately 50,000 ounces of gold and over one million ounces of silver.
The Easton mine was discovered in 1873 and operated until 1914. Ore was mined from multiple high-angle quartz veins carrying auriferous pyrite, galena, sphalerite, and chalcophyrite, with minor tetrahedrite, argenite, gold tellurides, and stibnite. The ore was processed by a ten stamp mill with a cyanide circuit. The mine closed in 1914 due to litigation over ownership, not lack of ore.
The US Grant mining company entered into an agreement with the original Easton mine owners in 1947, and for two years thereafter drove a new 4,200- foot tunnel at the 600-foot level. No significant ore was produced as a result of these efforts. The Pacific mine was discovered in 1871 and was originally mined in the early years of the district. Ore was mined from a small open pit at the mine site from 1960 to 1976. The little exploration work that has been done on the Easton Pacific properties since then has been concentrated in the Pacific pit area.
The High Up and Irene mines were worked periodically from the 1870s to 1941. The mine workings are now inaccessible; as a consequence, assessments of mineral potential have been based on historic records and maps. These records indicate that the mines produced between 10,000 and 15,000 ounces of gold, at an average grade of nearly 0.5 ounces per ton. Silver was also produced from the mines, at a ratio eight times that of gold production. A 1913 mine report describes the ore body of the High Up mine as a shear zone with good gold grades in quartz veins and in adjacent fault clay and breccia. According to a 1941 report, the High-Up vein is 3.5 ft wide. It was sampled every 5 feet for 900 feet of strike and returned an average grade of 0.677 opt. Au.
In November of 1988, Easton Pacific and Riverside Mining Company entered into a joint operation agreement with BHP-Utah International, Inc. ("BHP Utah") providing for the exploration and, if warranted, development of the Easton-Pacific claims in the Virginia City Mining District. Under the agreement, BHP Utah was to have expended approximately $1.6 million over a four-year period to conduct exploration work, and was to have made annual payments to the company totaling approximately $340,000, increasing to $350,000 per year at the end of the period. In return for these expenditures, BHP Utah was to have received interests in Easton Pacific's properties ranging from 40% to 60%, plus the option to increase its interests by an additional 20% by paying the company an additional $3 million.
The joint operation agreement was terminated by BHP Utah in November of 1989, following the completion of its obligations to Easton Pacific for the prior year. Beginning in mid-1994, the company entered into discussions with Kennecott regarding a mining venture agreement for the exploration and possible development of the company's properties. No agreement was reached. As a consequence, Kennecott later terminated its 1994 mining venture agreement with the Company covering its Alder Gulch properties. GEOLOGY OF THE EASTON-PACIFIC PROPERTIES. Pacific mine mineralization is hosted by a breccia body at the intersection of two regional faults. The breccia is silicified, pyritic, and strongly argillized. Higher grade Au- Ag mineralization occurs in quartz-sulfide veins. Hanover geologists relogged all core and chips from the Pacific drilling and trenched across 500 feet of strike to better define the extent and continuity of mineralization. The mineralization is open in all directions.
The following table sets forth information concerning drill holes representative of the grades and thickness encountered at the Pacific mine.
Prior to the merger of Easton-Pacific, Dr. Roger Steininger, an independent consultant geologist, familiar with the history and geology of the Virginia City district, was commissioned by the Company in early 1997 to conduct an independent evaluation of the Alder Gulch area, and by Easton- Pacific & Riverside Mining Company to conduct a similar evaluation of the Easton-Pacific properties. His report is an evaluation of the exploration potential of the Alder Gulch and Easton-Pacific properties based primarily upon the known geology of the properties (which is itself predicated on the results of assaying, drilling, sampling and other exploratory activities conducted by the Company, Easton-Pacific and others). Dr. Steininger has consulted for major mining companies including Royal Gold, Inc., Glamis Gold, Inc., Echo Bay Mines, Phelps Dodge and Amax Gold, and has over 30 years of exploration and mining experience. Also in 1997, the Company commissioned Dr. Tom Henricksen, an independent consulting geologist, to write a report based upon his knowledge of the Virginia City district. Dr. Henricksen was North-West Regional Manager and Regional Geologist for Kennecott Exploration from 1990-1996 and was actively involved with Kennecott's exploration of Alder Gulch from August 1992 to March 1995 when Kennecott terminated its joint venture with the Company. He has more than 25 years experience in exploration and mining. Dr. Steininger's and Dr. Henricksen's reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to this report.
MINING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS PERTAINING TO PROPERTIES.
OVERVIEW. The Company, like other mining companies doing business in the United States, is subject to a variety of federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations designed to protect the quality of the air and water in the vicinity of its mining operations. These include "permitting" or pre-operating approval requirements designed to ensure the environmental integrity of a proposed mining facility, operating requirements designed to mitigate the effects of discharges into the environment during mining operations, and reclamation or post-operation requirements designed to remediate the lands effected by a mining facility once commercial mining operations have ceased.
Federal legislation and implementing regulations adopted and administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of Engineers and other agencies--in particular, legislation such as the federal Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the National Environmental Policy Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act--have a direct bearing on domestic mining operations. These federal initiatives are often administered and enforced through state agencies operating under parallel state statutes and regulations. Hanover's Alder Gulch properties are located in Montana, which, despite its history as a major mining area, has in the last decade gradually limited mine development as tourism and environmental concerns have assumed greater economic and political importance. Although mines continue to be approved for development in the state, the cost and uncertainty associated with the permitting process have resulted in fewer mining applications and higher operating costs for those mining companies seeking to do business in the state. These laws are briefly discussed below.
THE CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Clean Water Act is the principal federal environmental protection law regulating mining operations. The Act imposes limitations on waste water discharges into waters of the United States, including discharges from point sources such as mine facilities. In order to comply with the Clean Water Act, the Company will be required to obtain one or more permits which will control the level of effluent discharges from its proposed mining and processing operations.
THE CLEAN AIR ACT. The federal Clean Air Act limits the ambient air discharge of certain materials deemed to be hazardous and establishes a federal air quality permitting program for such discharges. Hazardous materials are defined in enabling regulations adopted under the Act to include various metals and cyanide, the latter of which is used in heap leach recovery processes. The Act also imposes limitations on the level of particulate matter generated from mining operations, and the Company may be required to adopt dust control techniques in all phases of mining in order to comply with these limitations.
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT. The National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") requires all governmental agencies to consider the impact on the human environment of major federal actions as therein defined. Because the Company's mining properties are located on federal lands, mining operations on those lands will likely be conditioned on the preparation, review and approval of an environmental impact statement outlining in detail the environmental effects of such operations and the Company's efforts to ameliorate such effects.
THE COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION AND LIABILITY ACT. The federal Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") imposes clean-up and reclamation responsibilities with respect to unlawful discharges into the environment, and establishes significant criminal and civil penalties against those persons who are primarily responsible for such discharges.
MONTANA ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Montana has adopted counterparts to NEPA and CERCLA, being the Environmental Policy Act and the Metal Mine Reclamation Act, both of which are administered by the Department of Lands. The state has also adopted the Air Quality Act and Water Quality Act, which parallel to a large extent the provisions of the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act; these statutes are administered through various bureaus of the Department of Environmental Quality.
THE COMPANY'S PERMITTING STATUS. Gold was first discovered in the Alder Gulch area in 1863, and extensive mining activities in the area continued until the 1940s, when production from conventional mining processes dwindled. As a consequence of these activities, the Company believes it will experience less difficulty in obtaining permits for large scale mining development than would be the case were it seeking to develop an area that had no history of mining operations. The Company has obtained certain permits and approvals in conjunction with the limited exploration and minor development activities conducted on the Alder Gulch properties from 1993 to 1996, and believes that it will meet existing criteria for additional permits and approvals necessary to large-scale development.
Nonetheless, substantial planning will be required if the Company is to meet the requirements of existing laws and regulations, and no assurance can be given that any proposed plans to conduct large scale development of the Alder Gulch properties will be timely realized. Data regarding the effect of any such development on the air water quality of the area is being collected and analyzed at significant cost to the company, and will be presented to the various regulatory agencies in the future, in the form of a mine development and reclamation plan. These agencies will then review and evaluate the plan, and are free to reject it or impose additional requirements which could increase the cost of development to a level beyond that deemed economically feasible. Hanover may encounter opposition from local environmental groups and organizations once its development plans are presented to the regulatory authorities and made available for public comment. [The balance of this page has been intentionally left blank.] MAP OF THE COMPANY'S PROPERTIES IN THE VIRGINIA CITY MINING DISTRICT.
Location map showing where within the Virginia City Mining District, Madison County, Montana, the Hanover Gold controlled claim block of properties is located as of December 31, 1997, including townships and sections, streams, and selected mine locations.
[The balance of this page has been intentionally left blank.]
ITEM 3.