Item 2. Properties
Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the Company's development drilling activity for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001. There is no correlation between the number of productive wells completed during any period and the aggregate reserves attributable to those wells. The Company's exploratory wells drilled in the past five years consist of one dry hole (0.19 net) drilled in 1998 and five dry holes (2.44 net) drilled in 1999.
Summary of Productive Wells
The table below shows the number of the Company's productive gross and net wells at December 31, 2001.
Reserves
All of the Company's oil and natural gas reserves are located in the United States. The Company's approximate net proved reserves were estimated by Wright & Company, Inc. independent petroleum engineers ("Wright & Company"), to be 118,608,000 Mcf of natural gas and 2,126,000 Bbls of oil at December 31, 2001, 118,640,000 MCf of natural gas and 2,166,000 Bbls of oil at December 31, 2000 and 101,245,000 Mcf of natural gas and 1,154,000 Bbls of oil at December 31, 1999.
The Company's approximate net proved developed reserves were estimated, by Wright & Company to be 88,477,000 Mcf of natural gas and 1,801,000 Bbls of oil at December 31, 2001, 92,131,000 Mcf of natural gas and 1,527,000 Bbls of oil at December 31, 2000 and 82,628,000 Mcf of natural gas and 798,000 Bbls of oil at December 31, 1999.
The Company's reserves by region are as follows as of December 31, 2001:
Oil
(Mbbl)
Gas
(Mmcf)
MCFE
(Mmcfe)
%
Proved Developed Reserves
Appalachian Basin
42,296
42,506
42.81%
Michigan Basin
25,448
25,550
25.73%
Rocky Mountain Region
1,749
20,733
31,227
31.46
%
Total Proved Developed Reserves
1,801
88,477
99,283
100.00%
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Appalachian Basin
0.00%
Michigan Basin
1,488
1,488
4.63%
Rocky Mountain Region
28,643
30,593
95.37
%
Total Proved Undeveloped
30,131
32,081
100.00%
Total Proved Reserves
Appalachian Basin
42,296
42,506
32.36%
Michigan Basin
26,936
27,038
20.58%
Rocky Mountain Region
2,074
49,376
61,820
47.06
%
Total Proved Reserves
2,126
118,608
131,364
100.00%
No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event that would cause a significant change in estimated reserves is believed by the Company to have occurred since December 31, 2001. Reserves cannot be measured exactly, as reserve estimates involve subjective judgment. The estimates must be reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information gained from reservoir performance, new geological and geophysical data and economic changes.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable to the Company's proved oil and gas reserves, giving effect to future estimated income tax expenses, was estimated by Wright & Company in 2001, 2000 and 1999 to be $46.4 million as of December 31, 2001, $104.6 million as of December 31, 2000 and $58.5 million as of December 31, 1999. These amounts are based on year-end prices, adjusted for hedging contracts at the respective dates. The values expressed are estimates only, and may not reflect realizable values or fair market values of the natural gas and oil ultimately extracted and recovered. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows may not accurately reflect proceeds of production to be received in the future from the sale of natural gas and oil currently owned and does not necessarily reflect the actual costs that would be incurred to acquire equivalent natural gas and oil reserves.
Net Proved Natural Gas and Oil Reserves
The proved reserves of natural gas and oil of the Company as estimated by Wright & Company at December 31, 2001 are set forth below. These reserves have been prepared in compliance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") based on year-end prices. An analysis of the change in estimated quantities of natural gas and oil reserves from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001, all of which are located within the United States, is shown below:
Natural Gas (Mcf)
Oil (Bbls)
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves:
Beginning of year
118,640,000
2,166,000
Revisions of previous estimates
(8,694,000
)
(176,000
)
Beginning of year as revised
109,946,000
1,990,000
New discoveries and extensions
Rocky Mountain region
23,896,000
-
Other
-
715,000
Dispositions to partnerships
(9,263,000)
(384,000)
Acquisitions
Rocky Mountain region
2,000
-
Appalachian basin
112,000
-
Production
(6,085,000
)
(195,000
)
End of year
118,608,000
2,126,000
==========
========
Proved developed reserves:
Beginning of year
92,131,000
1,527,100
==========
========
End of year
88,477,000
1,801,000
==========
========
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows and Changes Therein Relating to Proved Natural Gas and Oil Reserves
Summarized in the following table is information for the Company with respect to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved natural gas and oil reserves. Future cash inflows are computed by applying year-end prices, adjusted for any hedging contracts, of natural gas and oil relating to the Company's proved reserves to year-end quantities of those reserves. Future production, development, site restoration and abandonment costs are derived based on current costs, assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. Future income tax expenses are computed by applying the statutory rate in effect at December 31, 2001 to the future pretax net cash flows, less the tax basis of the properties, and gives effect to permanent differences, tax credits and allowances related to the properties.
For the year ended
December 31, 2001
Future estimated cash flows
$ 317,515,000
Future estimated production costs
(98,538,000)
Future estimated development costs
(45,323,000)
Future estimated income tax expense
(50,360,000
)
Future net cash flows
123,294,000
10% annual discount for estimated timing of cash flows
(76,855,000
)
Standardized measure of discounted
future estimated net cash flows
$ 46,439,000
=========
The following table summarizes the principal sources of change in the standardized measure of discounted future estimated net cash flows from January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001:
Sales of oil and natural gas production, net of production costs
$(19,876,000)
Net changes in prices and production costs
(140,487,000)
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery, less related costs
25,942,000
Dispositions to partnerships
(28,935,000)
Acquisitions
189,000
Development costs incurred during the period
35,412,000
Revisions of previous quantity estimates
(23,818,000)
Changes in estimated income taxes
30,622,000
Accretion in discount
62,751,000
$(58,200,000 )
=========
The foregoing data should not be viewed as representing the expected cash flow from, or current value of, existing proved reserves, as the computations are based on a large number of estimates and arbitrary assumptions. Reserve quantities cannot be measured with precision, and their estimation requires many judgmental determinations and frequent revisions. The required projection of production and related expenditures over time requires further estimates with respect to pipeline availability, rates of demand and governmental control. Actual future prices and costs are likely to be substantially different from the current prices and costs utilized in the computation of reported amounts. Any analysis or evaluation of the reported amounts should give specific recognition to the computational methods and the limitations inherent therein.
Substantially all of the Company's natural gas and oil reserves have been mortgaged or pledged as security for the Company's credit agreement. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Natural Gas Leases
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2001, the acres of developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas acreage leased and available to the Company, listed alphabetically by state.
Developed
Acreage
Undeveloped
Acreage
Colorado
15,900
106,200
Michigan
27,700
4,200
North Dakota
2,300
3,400
Ohio
-
Pennsylvania
9,000
2,900
Tennessee
5,400
-
Utah
16,000
West Virginia
49,200
2,500
Total
110,880
135,200
======
======
Title to Properties
The Company believes that it holds good and indefeasible title to its properties, in accordance with standards generally accepted in the natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions stated in the opinion of counsel employed in the various areas in which the Company conducts its exploration activities, which exceptions, in the Company's judgment, do not detract substantially from the use of such property. As is customary in the natural gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination is conducted at the time the properties believed to be suitable for drilling operations are acquired by the Company. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, an extensive title examination is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to defects which the Company deems to be significant. A title examination has been performed with respect to substantially all of the Company's producing properties. No single property owned by the Company represents a material portion of the Company's holdings.
The properties owned by the Company are subject to royalty, overriding royalty and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. The properties are also subject to burdens such as liens incident to operating agreements, current taxes, development obligations under natural gas and oil leases, farm-out arrangements and other encumbrances, easements and restrictions. The Company does not believe that any of these burdens will materially interfere with the use of the properties.
Natural Gas Sales
Natural gas is sold by the Company under contracts with terms ranging from one month to three years. Virtually all of the Company's contract pricing provisions are tied to a market index, with certain adjustments based on, among other factors, whether a well delivers to a gathering or transmission line, quality of natural gas and prevailing supply and demand conditions, so that the price of the natural gas fluctuates to remain competitive with other available natural gas supplies. As a result, the Company's revenues from the sale of natural gas will suffer if market prices decline and benefit if they increase. The Company believes that the pricing provisions of its natural gas contracts are customary in the industry.
The Company sells its natural gas to industrial end-users and utilities. One customer, Cinnabar Energy Services, accounted for 25.2% and 17.7% of the Company's revenues from oil and gas sales (13.1% and 11.3% of total revenues) in 2001 and 2000, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total revenues in 1999. No other single purchaser of the Company's natural gas accounted for 10% or more of the Company's total revenues during 2001, 2000 or 1999.
At December 31, 2001, natural gas produced by the Company sold at prices per Mcf ranging from $0.90 to $6.15, depending upon well location, the date of the sales contract and other factors. The weighted net average price of natural gas sold by the Company during 2001 was $3.53 per Mcf.
In general, the Company, together with its marketing subsidiary, RNG, has been and expects to continue to be able to produce and sell natural gas from its wells without curtailment by providing natural gas to purchasers at competitive prices. Open access transportation on the country's interstate pipeline system has greatly increased the range of potential markets. Whenever feasible the Company allows for multiple market possibilities from each of its gathering systems, while seeking the best available market for its natural gas at any point in time.
Natural Gas Marketing
The Company's natural gas marketing activities involve the aggregation and reselling of natural gas produced by the Company and others. The Company believes that in a deregulated market, successful natural gas marketing is essential to profitable operations. A variety of factors affect the market for natural gas, including the availability of other domestic production, natural gas imports, the availability and price of alternative fuels, the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines, general fluctuations in the supply and demand for natural gas and the effects of state and federal regulations on natural gas production and sales. The natural gas industry also competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual customers.
RNG, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a natural gas marketing company that specializes in the acquisition, aggregation and marketing of natural gas production in the Company's operating areas. RNG markets natural gas produced by the Company and also purchases natural gas from other producers and resells to utilities, end users or other marketers. The employees of RNG have extensive knowledge of natural gas markets in the Company's areas of operations. Such knowledge assists the Company in maximizing its prices as it markets natural gas from Company-operated wells. The gas is marketed to natural gas utilities, pipelines and industrial and commercial customers, either directly through the Company's gathering system, or utilizing transportation services provided by regulated interstate pipeline companies.
Hedging Activities
The Company utilizes commodity-based derivative instruments as hedges to manage a portion of its exposure to price volatility stemming from its natural gas sales and marketing activities. These instruments consist of NYMEX-traded natural gas futures and option contracts. The contracts hedge committed and anticipated natural gas purchases and sales, generally forecasted to occur within a three to twelve-month period. Company policy prohibits the use of natural gas futures or options for speculative purposes and permits utilization of hedges only if there is an underlying physical position.
The Company has extensive experience with the use of financial hedges to reduce the risk and impact of natural gas price changes. These hedges are used by RNG to coordinate fixed and variable priced purchases and sales, and by the Company to "lock in" fixed prices from time to time for the Company's share of production. In order for future contracts to serve as effective hedges, there must be sufficient correlation to the underlying hedged transaction. While hedging can help provide price protection if spot prices drop, hedges can also limit upside potential.
For unhedged natural gas sales not subject to fixed price contracts, the Company is subject to price fluctuations for natural gas sold in the spot market. The Company continues to evaluate the potential for reducing these risks by entering into hedge transactions. In addition, the Company may also close out any portion of hedges that may exist from time to time.
Financing of Drilling Activities
The Company conducts development drilling activities for its own account and for other investors. In 1984, the Company began sponsoring private drilling limited partnerships, and, in 1989, the Company began to register the partnership interests offered under public drilling programs with the SEC. The Company's public partnerships had $57.1 million in subscriptions in 2001, $55.6 million in 2000 and $36.1 million in 1999. The Company generally invests, as its equity contribution to each drilling partnership, an additional sum approximating 20% of the aggregate subscriptions received for that particular drilling partnership. As a result, the Company is subject to substantial cash commitments at the closing of each drilling partnership. The funds received from these programs are restricted to use in future drilling operations. While funds were received by the Company pursuant to drilling contracts in the years indicated, the Company recognizes revenues from drilling operations on the percentage of completion method as the wells are drilled, rather than when funds are received. Most of the Company's drilling and development funds now are received from partnerships in which the Company serves as managing general partner. However, because wells produce for a number of years, the Company continues to serve as operator for a large number of unaffiliated parties. In addition to the partnership structure, the Company also utilizes joint venture arrangements for financing drilling activities.
The financing process begins when the Company enters into a development agreement with an investor partner, pursuant to which the Company agrees to assign its rights in the property to be drilled to the partnership or other entity. The partnership or other entity thereby becomes owner of a working interest in the property.
The Company's development contracts with its investor partners have historically taken many different forms. Generally the agreements can be classified as on a "footage-based" rate, whereby the Company receives drilling and completion payments based on the depth of the well; "cost-plus," in which the Company is reimbursed for its actual cost of drilling plus some additional amount for overhead and profit; or "turnkey," in which a specified amount is paid for drilling and another amount for completion. As part of the compensation for its services, the Company also has received some interest in the production from the well in the form of an overriding royalty interest, working interest or other proportionate share of revenue or profits. The Company's development contracts may provide for a combination of several of the foregoing payment options. Basic drilling and completion operations are performed on a footage-based rate, with leases and gathering pipelines being contributed at Company cost. The Company may also purchase a working interest in the subject properties.
The level of the Company's drilling and development activity is dependent upon the amount of subscriptions in its public drilling partnerships and investments from other partnerships or other joint venture partners. The use of partnerships and similar financing structures enables the Company to diversify its holdings, thereby reducing the risks of its development investments. Additionally, the Company benefits through such arrangements by its receipt of fees for its management services and/or through an increased share in the revenues produced by the developed properties. The Company believes that investments in drilling activities, whether through Company-sponsored partnerships or other sources, are influenced in part by the favorable treatment that such investments enjoy under the federal income tax laws. No assurance can be given that the Company will continue to have access to funds generated through these financing vehicles.
Oil Production
The Company's acquisition in December 1999 of 53 wells and in April 2000 of 108 wells in the Wattenberg field in Colorado and ongoing development activities in the Rocky Mountains added to oil production and reserves. At the end of 2001 oil was about 10% of the Company's total equivalent reserves. Oil production in 2001 was 195,000 barrels, up from 109,000 in 2000 and up from 8,000 barrels in 1999.
The Company is currently able to sell all the oil that it can produce under existing sales contracts with petroleum refiners and marketers. The Company does not refine any of its oil production. The Company's crude oil production is sold to purchasers at or near the Company's wells under short-term purchase contracts at prices and in accordance with arrangements that are customary in the oil industry. No single purchaser of the Company's crude oil accounted for 10% or more of the Company's revenues from oil and gas sales in 2001, 2000 or 1999. At December 31, 2001, oil produced by the Company sold at prices ranging from $12.75 to $18.75 per barrel, depending upon the location and quality of oil. In 2001, the weighted net average price per barrel of oil sold by the Company was $22.53.
Oil production is subject to many of the same operating hazards and environmental concerns as natural gas production, but is also subject to the risk of oil spills. Federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the Company, to procure and implement spill prevention, control, counter-measures and response plans relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA") subjects owners of facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from oil spills. Noncompliance with OPA may result in varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities. Operations of the Company are also subject to the Federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws relating to the control of water pollution, which laws provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities for release of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
Governmental Regulation
The Company's business and the natural gas industry in general are heavily regulated. The availability of a ready market for natural gas production depends on several factors beyond the Company's control. These factors include regulation of natural gas production, federal and state regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control, the amount of natural gas available for sale, the availability of adequate pipeline and other transportation and processing facilities and the marketing of competitive fuels. State and federal regulations generally are intended to prevent waste of natural gas, protect rights to produce natural gas between owners in a common reservoir and control contamination of the environment. Pipelines are subject to the jurisdiction of various federal, state and local agencies. The Company takes the steps necessary to comply with applicable regulations both on its own behalf and as part of the services it provides to its investor partnerships. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with such statutes, rules, regulations and governmental orders, although there can be no assurance that this is or will remain the case. The following discussion of the regulation of the United States natural gas industry is not intended to constitute a complete discussion of the various statutes, rules, regulations and environmental orders to which the Company's operations may be subject.
Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production
The Company's oil and natural gas operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Prior to commencing drilling activities for a well, the Company must procure permits and/or approvals for the various stages of the drilling process from the applicable state and local agencies in the state in which the area to be drilled is located. Such permits and approvals include those for the drilling of wells, and such regulation includes maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties on which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells and the disposal of fluids used in connection with operations. The Company's operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled and the unitization or pooling of natural gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely primarily or exclusively on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In areas where pooling is voluntary, it may be more difficult to form units, and therefore, more difficult to develop a project if the operator owns less than 100% of the leasehold. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations may limit the amount of oil and natural gas the Company can produce from its wells and may limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the Company's costs of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. In as much as such laws and regulations are frequently expanded, amended and reinterpreted, the Company is unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such regulations.
Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural Gas
Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA") and the regulations promulgated thereunder by FERC. Maximum selling prices of certain categories of natural gas sold in "first sales," whether sold in interstate or intrastate commerce, were regulated pursuant to the NGPA. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act (the "Decontrol Act") removed, as of January 1, 1993, all remaining federal price controls from natural gas sold in "first sales" on or after that date. FERC's jurisdiction over natural gas transportation was unaffected by the Decontrol Act. While sales by producers of natural gas and all sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids can currently be made at market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future.
The Company's sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation. In recent years, FERC has undertaken various initiatives to increase competition within the natural gas industry. As a result of initiatives like FERC Order No.636, issued in April 1992, the interstate natural gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. The most significant provisions of Order No.636 require that interstate pipelines provide transportation separate or "unbundled" from their sales service, and require that pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all natural gas suppliers. In many instances, the result of Order No.636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines' traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. Another effect of regulatory restructuring is the greater transportation access available on interstate pipelines. In some cases, producers and marketers have benefited from this availability. However, competition among suppliers has greatly increased and traditional long-term producer-pipeline contracts are rare. Furthermore, gathering facilities of interstate pipelines are no longer regulated by FERC, thus allowing gatherers to charge higher gathering rates.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, FERC, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by FERC and Congress will continue. The Company cannot determine to what extent future operations and earnings of the Company will be affected by new legislation, new regulations, or changes in existing regulation, at federal, state or local levels.
Environmental Regulations
The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations could continue. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the natural gas industry in general, the business and prospects of the Company could be adversely affected.
The Company generates wastes that may be subject to the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the Company's operations that are currently exempt from treatment as "hazardous wastes" may in the future be designated as "hazardous wastes," and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements.
The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Although the Company believes that it has utilized good operating and waste disposal practices, prior owners and operators of these properties may not have utilized similar practices, and hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company or on or under locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), RCRA and analogous state laws as well as state laws governing the management of oil and natural gas wastes. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination) or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination.
CERCLA and similar state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Persons who are or were responsible for release of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.
The Company's operations may be subject to the Clean Air Act ("CAA") and comparable state and local requirements. Amendments to the CAA were adopted in 1990 and contain provisions that may result in the gradual imposition of certain pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from the operations of the Company. The EPA and states have been developing regulations to implement these requirements. The Company may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next several years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits and approvals addressing other air emission-related issues.
The Company's expenses relating to preserving the environment during 2001 were not significant in relation to operating costs and the Company expects no material change in 2002. Environmental regulations have had no materially adverse effect on the Company's operations to date, but no assurance can be given that environmental regulations will not, in the future, result in a curtailment of production or otherwise have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.
As a matter of corporate policy and commitment, the Company attempts to minimize the adverse environmental impact of all its operations. During the 1990's, the Company was a nine-time recipient of the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection's top award in recognition of the quality of the Company's environmental and reclamation work in its drilling activities.
Operating Hazards and Insurance
The Company's exploration and production operations include a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, craterings, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gas, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company's pipeline, gathering and distribution operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the natural gas industry. These hazards include damage to wells, pipelines and other related equipment, and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other acts of God, inadvertent damage from construction equipment, leakage of natural gas and other hydrocarbons, fires and explosions and other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.
Any significant problems related to its facilities could adversely affect the Company's ability to conduct its operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, potential risks; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured against could materially adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. The Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at premium levels that justify its purchase or whether insurance will be available at all.
Competition
The Company believes that its exploration, drilling and production capabilities and the experience of its management generally enable it to compete effectively. The Company encounters competition from numerous other oil and natural gas companies, drilling and income programs and partnerships in all areas of its operations, including drilling and marketing natural gas and obtaining desirable natural gas leases. Many of these competitors possess larger staffs and greater financial resources than the Company, which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable producing properties and drilling prospects more economically. The Company's ability to explore for oil and natural gas prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future depends upon its ability to conduct its operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. The Company competes with a number of other companies which offer interests in drilling partnerships with a wide range of investment objectives and program structures. Competition for investment capital for both public and private drilling programs is intense. The Company also faces intense competition in the marketing of natural gas from competitors including other producers as well as marketing companies. Also, international developments and the possible improved economics of domestic natural gas exploration may influence other companies to increase their domestic oil and natural gas exploration. Furthermore, competition among companies for favorable prospects can be expected to continue, and it is anticipated that the cost of acquiring properties may increase in the future. Factors affecting competition in the natural gas industry include price, location, availability, quality and volume of natural gas. The Company believes that it can compete effectively in the oil and natural gas industry on each of the foregoing factors. Nevertheless, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by competition.
Employees
As of December 31, 2001, the Company had 90 employees, including 15 in finance, and data processing, 6 in administration, 14 in exploration and development, 50 in production and 5 in natural gas marketing. The Company's engineers, supervisors and well tenders are generally responsible for the day-to-day operation of wells and pipeline systems. In addition, the Company retains subcontractors to perform drilling, fracturing, logging, and pipeline construction functions at drilling sites. The Company's employees act as supervisors of the subcontractors.
The Company's employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers relations with its employees to be excellent.
Facilities
The Company owns and occupies three buildings in Bridgeport, West Virginia, two of which serve as the Company's headquarters and one which serves as a field operating site. The Company also owns a field operating building in Gilmer County, West Virginia. The Company leases field operating offices in Colorado, Michigan and Pennsylvania under operating leases. The Company believes that its current facilities are sufficient for its current and anticipated operations.
Item 3.