Item 2 for a summary of information about the Partnership's properties.
The Partnership believes that its operating results have benefited from favorable industry trends and conditions. Notably, the level of new mini-warehouse construction has decreased since 1988 while consumer demand has increased. In addition, in recent years consolidation has occurred in the fragmented mini-warehouse industry.
Mini-warehouses - --------------- Mini-warehouses, which comprise the majority of the Partnership's investments, are designed to offer accessible storage space for personal and business use at a relatively low cost. A user rents a fully enclosed space which is for the user's exclusive use and to which only the user has access on an unrestricted basis during business hours. On-site operation is the responsibility of resident managers who are supervised by area managers. Some mini-warehouses also include rentable uncovered parking areas for vehicle storage. Leases for mini-warehouse space may be on a long-term or short-term basis, although typically spaces are rented on a month-to-month basis. Rental rates vary according to the location of the property and the size of the storage space.
Users of space in mini-warehouses include both individuals and large and small businesses. Individuals usually employ this space for storage of, among other things, furniture, household appliances, personal belongings, motor vehicles, boats, campers, motorcycles and other household goods. Businesses normally employ this space for storage of excess inventory, business records, seasonal goods, equipment and fixtures.
Mini-warehouses in which the Partnership has invested generally consist of three to seven buildings containing an aggregate of between 291 to 1,175 storage spaces, most of which have between 25 and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately 8 to 12 feet.
The Partnership experiences minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of mini-warehouses with occupancies higher in the summer months than in the winter months. The Partnership believes that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer.
The Partnership's mini-warehouses are geographically diversified and are generally located in heavily populated areas and close to concentrations of apartment complexes, single family residences and commercial developments. However, there may be circumstances in which it may be appropriate to own a property in a less populated area, for example, in an area that is highly visible from a major thoroughfare and close to, although not in, a heavily populated area. Moreover, in certain population centers, land costs and zoning restrictions may create a demand for space in nearby less populated areas.
As with most other types of real estate, the conversion of mini-warehouses to alternative uses in connection with a sale or otherwise would generally require substantial capital expenditures. However, the Partnership does not intend to convert its mini-warehouses to other uses.
Commercial Properties - --------------------- Through 1996, the Partnership owned and operated two business parks; one in Mesa, Arizona and one in Tempe, Arizona. These properties were transferred to AOPPLP in January 1997 in exchange for a 3.3% interest in AOPPLP.
Investment Objectives and Polices; Sale or Financing of Investments - ------------------------------------------------------------------- The Partnership's objectives are to (i) preserve and protect invested capital, (ii) maximize the potential for appreciation in value of its properties, (iii) provide Federal income tax deductions so that during the early years of property operations a portion of cash distributions may be treated as a return of capital for tax purposes, and therefore, may not represent taxable income to the limited partners and (iv) provide for cash distributions from operations.
The Partnership will terminate on December 31, 2038, unless dissolved earlier. Under the terms of the general partnership agreement with PSI, as of December 31, 1996, PSI has the right to require the Partnership to sell all of
the joint venture properties (see Item 12(c)). The General Partners have no present intention to seek the liquidation of the Partnership because they believe that it is not an opportune time to sell mini-warehouses. Although the General Partners originally anticipated a liquidation of the Partnership in 1991-1994, since the completion of the Partnership's offering in 1986, significant changes have taken place in the financial and real estate markets that must be taken into account in considering the timing of any proposed sale or financing, including: (i) the increased construction of mini-warehouses from 1984 to 1988, which has increased competition, (ii) the general deterioration of the real estate market (resulting from a variety of factors, including changes in tax laws), which has significantly affected property values and decreased sales activities and (iii) the reduced sources of real estate financing.
In 1992, PSI offered Limited Partners of the Partnership (and two other affiliated Partnerships) the right to exchange their Units for shares of PSI's Common Stock. In connection with the exchange offer, the General Partners indicated to Limited Partners that they would continue to evaluate the advisability of the sale or financing of the Partnership's properties and that at some point prior to the expiration of the period originally estimated for the sale or financing of the properties (at the end of 1995 in the case of the Partnership), the General Partners intended to conduct an analysis to determine the feasibility of a sale or financing of the properties, to make a recommendation to Limited Partners and to retain independent appraisers to conduct a study of the current value of the properties. In that regard, the Partnership engaged Lawrence R. Nicholson, MAI, a principal with the firm of Nicholson-Douglas Realty Consultants, Inc. ("NDRC") to perform a limited investigation and appraisal of the Partnership's property portfolio. In a letter appraisal report dated December 7, 1995, NDRC indicated that, based on the assumptions contained in the report, the aggregate market value of the Partnership's 22 properties (consisting not only of the Partnership's interest but also including PSI's interest), as of September 30, 1995, was $65,600,000 ($60,800,000 for the 22 mini-warehouses and $4,800,000 for the two business parks). (In January 1997, after the date of the appraisal, the Partnership transferred its business parks to AOPPLP in exchange for a 3.3% interest in AOPPLP.) NDRC's report is limited in that NDRC did not inspect the properties and relied primarily upon the income capitalization approach in arriving at its opinion. NDRC's aggregate value conclusion represents the 100% property interests, and although not valued separately, includes both the interest of the Partnership in the properties, as well as the interest of PSI, which owns a joint venture interest (ranging from about 10% to 60%) in 20 of the 22 properties. The analytical process that was undertaken in the appraisal included a review of the properties' unit mix, rental rates and historical financial statements. Following these reviews, a stabilized level of net operating income was projected for the properties ($6,271,000 for the 20 mini-warehouses and $489,000 for the two business parks). In the case of the mini-warehouses, value estimates were then made using both direct capitalization analysis ($62,800,000) and a discounted cash flow analysis ($60,700,000). These value estimates were then compared to an estimated value ($59,700,000) using a regression analysis applied to a sample of approximately 300 sales of mini-warehouses to evaluate the reasonableness of the estimates using the direct capitalization and discounted cash flow analysis. The business parks were valued using a direct capitalization analysis. NDRC did not appraise the Partnership's property destroyed in 1992. NDRC has prepared other appraisals for the General Partners and their affiliates and is expected to continue to prepare appraisals for the General Partners and their affiliates. No environmental investigations were conducted with respect to the limited investigation of the Partnership's properties. Accordingly, NDRC's appraisal did not take into account any environmental cleanup or other costs that might be incurred in connection with a disposition of the properties. Although there can be no assurance, based on recently completed environmental investigations (see Item 2), the Partnership is not aware of any environmental contamination of its facilities material to its overall business or environmental condition. In addition to assuming compliance with applicable environmental laws, the appraisal also assumed, among other things, compliance with applicable zoning and use regulations and the existence of required licenses.
Limited Partners should recognize that appraisals are opinions as of the date specified, are subject to certain assumptions and the appraised value of the Partnership's properties may not represent their true worth or realizable value. There can be no assurance that, if these properties were sold, they would be sold at the appraised values; the sales price might be higher or lower than the appraised values.
As Limited Partners were previously informed in December 1995, based on NDRC's limited appraisal (as of September 1995), the General Partners have estimated a liquidation value per Unit of $357. This liquidation value was calculated assuming (i) the properties owned by the Partnership and PSI were sold at the values reflected in NDRC's report, (ii) costs of 5% of the sales price of the properties were incurred in the sale of the properties, (iii) the proceeds from the properties held jointly by the Partnership and PSI were allocated between them in accordance with the joint venture agreement and (iv) the Partnership's net assets were liquidated at their book value at September 30, 1995.
In June and July 1996, PSI completed cash tender offers pursuant to which PSI acquired a total of 7,785 additional limited partnership units in the Partnership at $357 per Unit.
Operating Strategies - -------------------- The Partnership's mini-warehouses are operated by PSI under the "Public Storage" name, which the Partnership believes is the most recognized name in the mini-warehouse industry. The major elements of the Partnership's operating strategies are as follows:
* Capitalize on Public Storage's name recognition. PSI, together with its predecessor, has more than 20 years of operating experience in the mini-warehouse business. PSI has informed the Partnership that it is the largest mini-warehouse facility operator in the United States in terms of both number of facilities and rentable space operated. PSI believes that its marketing and advertising programs improve its competitive position in the market. PSI's in-house Yellow Pages staff designs and places advertisements in approximately 700 directories. Commencing in early 1996, PSI began to experiment with a telephone reservation system designed to provide added customer service. Customers calling either PSI's toll-free referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a mini-warehouse facility are directed to PSI's reservation system where a trained representative discusses with the customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the customer of other products and services provided by PSI. As of December 31, 1996, the telephone reservation system was supporting rental activity at all of the Partnership's properties. PSI's toll-free telephone referral system services approximately 120,000 calls per month from potential customers inquiring as to the nearest Public Storage mini-warehouse.
* Maintain high occupancy levels and increase realized rents. Subject to market conditions, the Partnership generally seeks to achieve average occupancy levels in excess of 90% and to eliminate promotions prior to increasing rental rates. The monthly average realized rent per square foot for the mini-warehouse facilities were $.61 in 1996 compared to $.60 in 1995. The weighted average occupancy levels at the mini-warehouse facilities remained stable at 89% during 1996 and 1995. The Partnership has increased rental rates in many markets where it has achieved high occupancy levels and eliminated or minimized promotions.
* Systems and controls. PSI has an organizational structure and a property operation system, "CHAMP" (Computerized Help and Management Program), which links its corporate office with each mini-warehouse. This enables PSI to obtain daily information from each mini-warehouse and to achieve efficiencies in operations and maintain control over its space inventory, rental rates, promotional discounts and delinquencies. Expense management is achieved through centralized payroll and accounts payable systems and a comprehensive property tax appeals department, and PSI has an extensive internal audit program designed to ensure proper handling of cash collections.
* Professional property operation. In addition to the approximately 120 support personnel at the Public Storage corporate offices, there are approximately 2,700 on-site personnel who manage the day-to-day operations of the mini-warehouse in the Public Storage system. These on-site personnel are supervised by 110 district managers, 15 regional managers and three divisional managers (with an average of 13 years experience in the mini-warehouse industry) who report to the president of the mini-warehouse property operator (who has 13 years of experience with the Public Storage organization). PSI carefully selects and extensively trains the operational and support personnel and offers them a progressive career path. See "Mini-warehouse Property Operator."
Mini-warehouse Property Operator - -------------------------------- The Partnership's mini-warehouse properties are managed by PSI pursuant to a Management Agreement.
Under the supervision of the Partnership, PSI coordinates the operation of the facilities, establishes rental policies and rates, directs marketing activity and directs the purchase of equipment and supplies, maintenance activity, and the selection and engagement of all vendors, supplies and independent contractors.
PSI engages, at the expense of the Partnership, employees for the operation of the Partnership's facilities, including resident managers, assistant managers, relief managers, and billing and maintenance personnel. Some or all of these employees may be employed on a part-time basis and may also be employed by other persons, partnerships, REITs or other entities owning facilities operated by PSI.
In the purchasing of services such as advertising (including broadcast media advertising) and insurance, PSI attempts to achieve economies by combining the resources of the various facilities that it operates. Facilities operated by PSI have historically carried comprehensive insurance, including fire, earthquake, liability and extended coverage.
PSI has developed systems for space inventory, accounting and handling delinquent accounts, including a computerized network linking PSI operated facilities. Each project manager is furnished with detailed operating procedures and typically receives facilities management training from PSI. Form letters covering a variety of circumstances are also supplied to the project managers. A record of actions taken by the project managers when delinquencies occur is maintained.
The Partnership's facilities are typically advertised via signage, yellow pages, flyers and broadcast media advertising (television and radio) in geographic areas in which many of the Partnership's facilities are located. Broadcast media and other advertising costs are charged to the Partnership's facilities located in geographic areas affected by the advertising. From time to time, PSI adopts promotional programs, such as temporary rent reductions, in selected areas or for individual facilities.
For as long as the Management Agreement is in effect, PSI has granted the Partnership a non-exclusive license to use two PSI service marks and related designs, including the "Public Storage" name, in conjunction with rental and operation of facilities managed pursuant to the Management Agreement. Upon termination of the Management Agreement, the Partnership would no longer have the right to use the service marks and related designs. The General Partners believe that the loss of the right to use the service marks and related designs could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's business.
The Management Agreement between the Partnership and PSI provides that the Management Agreement may be terminated without cause upon 60 days written notice by either party.
Commercial Property Operator - ---------------------------- Through 1996, the Partnership's commercial properties were managed by PSCPG, now known as American Office Park Properties, Inc., pursuant to a Management Agreement. In January 1997, the Partnership transferred its commercial properties to AOPPLP.
Competition - ----------- Competition in the market areas in which the Partnership operates is significant, and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, and operating expenses of certain of the Partnership's facilities. Competition may be accelerated by any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate. Recent increases in plans for development of mini-warehouses is expected to further intensify competition among mini-warehouse operators in certain market areas. In addition to competition from mini-warehouses operated by PSI, there are three other national firms and numerous regional and local operators. The Partnership believes that the significant operating and financial experience of PSI's executive officers and directors and the "Public Storage" name should enable the Partnership to continue to compete effectively with other entities.
Other Business Activities - ------------------------- A corporation owned by the Hughes Family reinsures policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in the Partnership's mini-warehouses. The Partnership believes that the availability of insurance reduces the potential liability of the Partnership to tenants for losses to their goods from theft or destruction. This corporation receives the premiums and bears the risks associated with the insurance.
A corporation, in which PSI has a 95% economic interest and the Hughes Family has a 5% economic interest, sells locks, boxes, and tape to tenants to be used in securing their spaces and moving their goods. PSI believes that the availability of locks, boxes, and tape for sale promotes the rental of spaces.
Employees - --------- There are 75 persons who render services on behalf of the Partnership. These persons include resident managers, assistant managers, relief managers, district managers, and administrative personnel. Some of these employees may be employed on a part-time basis and may also be employed by other persons, partnerships, REITs, or other entities owning facilities operated by PSI or AOPPLP.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. ---------- The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 1996, about properties owned by the Partnership. Twenty two of these properties were acquired jointly with PSI and were contributed to general partnerships comprised of the Partnership and PSI.
- ---------------- (1) Business Park (2) In August 1992, the facility's mini-warehouse buildings were completely destroyed by Hurricane Andrew. (3) In January 1997, the Partnership contributed its business park facilities to AOPPLP in exchange for a 3.3% interest in AOPPLP. See Item 1.
The weighted average occupancy levels for the mini-warehouse and business park facilities were 89% and 100%, respectively, in 1996 compared to 89% and 99%, respectively, in 1995. The monthly average realized rent per square foot for the mini-warehouse and business park facilities $.61 and $.52, respectively, in 1996 compared to $.60 and $.48, respectively, in 1995.
Substantially all of the Partnership's facilities were acquired prior to the time that it was customary to conduct environmental investigations in connection with property acquisitions. During the fourth quarter of 1995, an independent environmental consulting firm completed environmental assessments on the Partnership's properties to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities of, such properties. Based on the assessments, the Partnership expensed in 1995 an estimated $85,000 for known environmental remediation requirements. Although there can be no assurance, the Partnership is not aware of any unaccrued environmental contamination of any of its property sites which individually or in the aggregate would be material to the Partnership's overall business, financial condition, or results of operations.
ITEM 3.