Item 2 - "Properties" for a description of the mines and processing facilities.
The Company holds a 100% interest in a property located in Imperial County, California (the "Imperial Project") which is currently being permitted for future mining activities. A Final Feasibility Report on this project was presented to the Board of Directors on May 1, 1996. The Report showed the project has a very favourable net present value. On May 2, 1996, the Board of Directors approved the project and directed pursuit of necessary permits to begin mining as soon as possible. With the timely receipt of all required permits, it is expected that gold production will begin in approximately the first quarter of 1998. See Item 2 - "Properties - Other Lands" for a description of this project.
The Company is a party to a joint venture arrangement in respect of a property located in Mexico in which it has a 60% interest. The joint venture has the right to acquire a 100% interest in the Cieneguita property ("Cieneguita Property") located in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico which has been placed into production. See Item 2 - "Properties - Other Lands" for a description of this property.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, the Company initiated an exploration program in Mexico to search out potential mining areas which have not been subject to any known exploration by other parties. The program was curtailed during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995 because no properties were found which met the Company's criteria for open-pit, heap leach operations. - 8 -
On August 14, 1996, the Company entered into a letter of intent with Paramount Ventures & Finance Inc., a public company, the shares of which are listed on the Vancouver Stock Exchange, which provided for the Company acquiring 2,000,000 Units of Paramount at Cdn.$2.25 per Unit (which has been done) and acquiring 50% of Paramount's interest in the Gunung Pani Gold Project on North Sulawesi Island of Indonesia. To earn the interest the Company is to fund all exploration and development costs up to the time of delivery of a positive Feasibility Study. See Item 2 - "Properties - Other Lands - Indonesia."
The Company's approach to the acquisition of mining properties has generally been to limit its review to undeveloped precious metal properties that others have explored in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the properties have significant potential gold mineralization or to review companies which own such properties. Of particular interest to the Company are properties on which reserves have been established by major companies. While such properties may not be economic for other companies to develop, the Company's expertise in the profitable exploitation of low grade ores through the heap leaching process may make the properties attractive to the Company.
The Company's criteria for property acquisition normally are:
- - the property should have the potential for large reserves that can be mined on an open pit basis,
- - the ore should be suitable for gold extraction by heap leaching, and
- - the property should be capable of being brought into production in stages to avoid large capital outlays at any one time.
Based on the ounces of gold contained in the proven and probable mineable reserves as at December 31, 1996 on the properties in which the Company has an interest, and the Company's ownership interests and rights in such properties, the Company estimates its gold reserves to be approximately 2,969,701 contained ounces. See "Summary of Reserves and Other Mineralization".
OTHER INFORMATION
The Company's mining operations are subject to the normal risks of mining and its profits are subject to fluctuations in the price of gold which fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The imposition of a proposed gross royalty on all production from federal lands in the United States, if it becomes law, will affect the profitability of the operations of the Rand Mine from its Baltic and Lamont Pits and of the Imperial Project (the Picacho Mine and Yellow Aster Pit at the Rand Mine are primarily on private or patented land and will not be materially affected). The Company's mining operations are subject to health, safety and environmental legislation and regulations, changes in which could cause additional expenses, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the Company's activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Certain of the Company's properties have not been surveyed and therefore in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which the properties - 9 -
are located, their existence and area could be in doubt. In addition, the Company has mining interests in Mexico and Indonesia which may be affected by changes in the political and economic environment in these countries. See "Other Considerations".
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
The following are the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages and positions with the Company:
CHESTER F. MILLAR is the Chairman of the Board of the Company and has been since November of 1989. Mr. Millar was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company over the period August 1985 to November 1989. Mr. Millar is a pioneer of the gold heap leaching technique, creating the first heap leach operations in California, Alaska, Honduras and New Zealand.
A. DAN ROVIG is a director, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and its subsidiaries and has been since November 1989. From September 1988 to November 1989, Mr. Rovig was President of the Company's subsidiaries. Before joining the Company in September of 1988 he was, for five years, an executive officer of British Petroleum Minerals Ltd., including its subsidiaries Amselco Minerals Inc. and BP Minerals America.
JAMES R. BILLINGSLEY is a director of the Company and Vice-President in charge of corporate administration, a position which he has held since joining the Company in August of 1986.
LORNE B. ANDERSON is Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company, a position which he has held since joining the Company in May of 1988. - 10 -
LOCATION MAP OF THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
The map shows the southern one-half of California and the part of Nevada which is adjacent thereto. The location of the operations of Rand Mining Co. is shown to be in California, lying west of Las Vegas, Nevada and northeast of Los Angeles, California, being on California highway 195. The location of the operations of Chemgold Inc. and of the Imperial Project are shown to be in the southeast part of California, lying west of Yuma, Arizona and east of San Diego, California. - 11 -
OPERATING SUMMARY
GOLD PRODUCTION
The following table describes, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, for the six months ended December 31, 1995 and for the 1995 and 1994 fiscal years ended June 30, gold production from the Company's mining operations.
- ---------------
(1) 329,776 ounces of gold have been produced from the Picacho Mine since commencement of production in 1980 to December 31, 1996.
(2) 443,266 ounces of gold have been produced from the Rand Mine since commencement of production in 1987 to December 31, 1996.
(3) This reflects the Company's 60% interest in total production which commenced in November 1995.
(4) The percentage decrease has been calculated on an annualized basis.
CASH COST OF PRODUCTION PER OUNCE OF GOLD PRODUCED
The following table describes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and for the six months ended December 31, 1995 and for the 1995 and 1994 fiscal years ended June 30, the cash cost of production related to the Company's mining operations. Cash cost of production includes mining, processing and direct mine overhead costs while royalties, selling, general and administrative costs and depreciation and depletion are excluded. - 12 -
CASH COST OF PRODUCTION PER OUNCE OF GOLD PRODUCED
- ----------------
(1) Comparison is to costs for the year ended June 30, 1995.
ROYALTY COST PER OUNCE OF GOLD PRODUCED
The following table describes, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and for the six months ended December 31, 1995 and for the 1995 and 1994 fiscal years ended June 30, the royalty cost per ounce of gold produced from the Company's mining operations.
ROYALTY COST PER OUNCE OF GOLD PRODUCED
- 13 -
SUMMARY OF RESERVES AND OTHER MINERALIZATION
PROVEN AND PROBABLE MINEABLE RESERVES
The following table describes the Company's proven and probable mineable reserves as at December 31, 1996, December 31, 1995 and June 30, 1995 and 1994. Mineable reserves do not reflect losses in the heap leaching process, but do include allowance for dilution of ore in the mining process. Proven and probable mineable reserves as at December 31, 1996 for the Rand Mine and the Imperial Project have been calculated based on a gold price of $400 per ounce and for the Picacho Mine were calculated based on a gold price of $380 per ounce. For December 31 and June 30, 1995 they have been calculated based on a gold price of $380 per ounce at the Picacho Mine and $400 per ounce at the Rand Mine and for the Imperial Project. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 the reserves were based on a gold price of $380 for all sites. Reference should be made to the Glossary on page [5] for a description of terms used herein.
(1) The proven and probable reserves as at December 31, 1996 were calculated by the Company and verified by Mine Reserves Associates, Inc., an entity which is not affiliated with the Company.
- 14 -
CONTAINED OUNCES OF GOLD
The following table describes the ounces of gold contained in the Company's proven and probable mineable reserves as at the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, the six months ended December 31 1995 and the 1995 and 1994 fiscal years ended June 30. The ounces of gold which will actually be recovered from these reserves will depend on actual gold grades encountered and recovery rates(1).
(1) Recovery rates experienced at the Company's operating mines from start-up to December 31, 1996 are as follows:
(2) Comparison is to reserves as at June 30, 1995. - 15 -
EFFECTS OF DEVELOPMENT DRILLING DURING FISCAL 1996
The effects of mining at each of the Company's mines during the period January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1996 are as follows:
PICACHO MINE - During year 1996, 1,631,600 tons of ore were mined and 58,525 ounces of gold were placed on the heap leach pad at the Picacho Mine. No exploration drilling was conducted at the Picacho Mine during fiscal 1996. Gold reserves decreased by 75,077 ounces due to diminution of the reserves as the mine enters its final year of production.
IMPERIAL PROJECT - During fiscal 1996, a development drilling program increased the proven and provable mineable reserves for this project by 5,293,200 tons to 95,128,200 tons as at December 31, 1996. The ounces of contained gold increased by 6,541 ounces to 1,515,545 ounces. The average grade of ore for the project dropped slightly from 0.017 ounces of gold per ton to 0.016 ounces of gold per ton as dilution was added to the reserve base.
RAND MINE - During the year ended December, 1996, 8,840,600 tons of ore containing 157,955 ounces of gold were mined and placed on the heap leach pads at Rand Mine and 85,762 ounces of gold were recovered. The development drilling program during fiscal 1996 added 208,410 ounces of gold to the gold reserves.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES
The following table lists the amount of expenditures incurred by the Company on exploration and mine development activities during the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, the six months ended December 31, 1995, and the fiscal years ended June 30, 1995 and 1994.
- 16 -
(1) Approximately $475,000 of the fiscal year June 30, 1995 and $874,000 of the fiscal year June 30, 1994 expenditures were in respect of exploration activities not associated with the Cieneguita Property. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, the Company spent approximately $197,891 on the La Jojoba property located in the State of Sonora, Mexico, $193,591 of which was expended on exploration activities and $4,300 of which was expended on property payments. On March 4, 1996 the Company delivered a notice of termination to Aquiline in respect of the Company's involvement in the La Jojoba property.]
OTHER MINERALIZATION
In addition to the proven and probable mineable reserves described above, the Company has delineated certain other mineralization. Other mineralization has not been included in the proven and probable mineable reserve estimates because even though enough drilling has been performed to indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these resources do not qualify as proven and probable reserves under applicable definitions and accordingly are not commercially mineable ore bodies and will not become so until further drilling, metallurgical work and/or other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved. Other mineralization has been calculated solely by the Company. Other mineralization associated with the Company's operating mines and other projects is as follows:
- 17 -
PRODUCTION METHOD
The Company uses the heap leach method to extract gold from low-grade ores. This process involves piling relatively coarse ore on an impervious membrane and allowing a dissolving fluid (a weak cyanide solution in the case of gold recovery) to seep down through the pile. The valuable metals are contained in the leaching solution that drains from the bottom of the pile and is subsequently collected on carbon and then recovered by electrolysis and smelting.
Many aspects of ores have a large influence on the leachability or recovery of the contained precious metals. For example, the presence of certain clays may hinder the movement of solutions through the pile and the lack of fractures or porosity in the ore may shield the contained metals from the leaching solution, making them largely unrecoverable. The best leaching ores are those that are fractured, oxidized, and free of chemicals that consume the active ingredient in the leaching solution.
Because of the nature of the ore at the Company's operating mines, crushing is not needed. As a result, the ore is taken from the pits and unloaded directly from trucks onto leach piles. Alkalinity of the ore is controlled by adding modifying reagents. The modifying reagents are used to increase the alkalinity of the ore, because the weak cyanide leaching solution used in the process is unstable in anything but an alkaline environment. Sprinklers or drippers are placed on top of the leach pile and the leaching solution is applied.
Drain pipes which collect the leaching solution are buried in a layer of sand which protects the underlying impervious liner. The drainage system is usually segmented to allow parts of the piles to be leached independently. Each segment also contains a leak detection system so that, if a leak in the liner occurs, the area of the leak can be isolated. Ore is piled in successive layers on the leach pad to a total height of several hundred feet. When one layer of the pile has been adequately leached, another layer of ore is placed on top and the leaching process is continued. - 18 -
The gold-bearing solutions drain from the leach pile and are collected in a pregnant solution pond. From here the solution is pumped through columns of sand-sized activated carbon and a gold-oxygen-cyanide complex is captured in the carbon pores. The carbon is removed and backwashed with a hot caustic or caustic-cyanide solution that releases the gold complex from the carbon. The solution is then passed through an electrowinning circuit where the gold is deposited on steel wool batts. The batts are removed and broken down into a sludge. The sludge or the steel wool plus gold is smelted in a crucible and poured into a mold forming a dore bar. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, the gold and silver content of the Company's gold product shipped to the refinery was an average of approximately 78% gold and 12% silver for the gold precipitates from Picacho Mine, an average of approximately 80% gold and 15% silver for dore from the Rand Mine.
GOLD SALES
The dore bullion produced by Rand and gold precipitates produced at the Picacho Mine are shipped to Engelhard Industries West Inc. ("Engelhard") of Anaheim, California where they are refined by Engelhard to produce 99.99% pure gold. Engelhard receives a refining and handling charge of approximately $1.60 per ounce of gold produced.
Refined gold is either delivered against an existing future sales contract or sold at the spot price for gold 2 days prior to the day of delivery to one of various precious metal merchants for delivery to the London, U.K. market. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Hedging".
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
GOLD PRICES
The Company's profitability is strongly influenced by the price of gold which fluctuates widely and which is affected by a number of factors outside of the Company's control, including expectations for inflation, levels of interest rates, demand for gold, global or regional political and economic conditions and production expectations in major gold producing regions. The following table sets forth for the calendar years indicated the annual high and low gold prices per troy ounce on the London Bullion Market and Comex in New York. - 19 -
The London fixing price of gold on December 31, 1996 was $369.55 per ounce and on March 13, 1997 the London noon fixing price was $352.90 per ounce.
REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS
The United States mining operations of the Company are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing exploration development and production. In addition such mining operations are subject to inspection and regulation by the Mining, Safety and Health Administration of the Department of Labor under provisions of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, which is designed to ensure operational safety and employee health and safety. The United States government also regulates the environmental impact of the mining industry through the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. In addition to imposing air quality standards and other pollution controls, the most significant provisions of the above legislation deal with mineral land reclamation and waste discharges from mines, mills and further processing operations. The Company is also subject to extensive health and safety regulations at the state level, as well as legislation and regulation with respect to the environmental impact of its mining operations in the State of California.
Compliance with such laws and regulations has increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, developing, constructing, operating and closing mining operations. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with compliance with such laws and regulations could become such that the Company would not proceed with the development of a project or continue to operate a mine.
Standard open-pit mining techniques have been established to meet reclamation requirements imposed by regulatory authorities. Such authorities generally require a mining company to return sites to safely-contoured slopes, but usually do not require backfilling of excavated areas. Heap leaching is done with a weak cyanide solution held within a closed circuit, which includes the leach pads and surface holding ponds. Due to the impervious qualities of the heap leach pad and the closed nature of the leaching system, the Company believes that its processing operations have a modest effect on the environment. - 20 -
Though the Company believes that its mining operations are in compliance with all present health, safety and environmental rules and regulations, there is always some uncertainty associated with such due to the complexity and application of such rules and regulations. The Company does not anticipate that compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations will have a material impact on its earnings in the foreseeable future however, possible future health, safety and environmental legislation, regulations and actions could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the activities of the Company, the extent of which cannot be predicted.
During the three years ended June 30, 1995, the six months ended December 31, 1995 and the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company made no material capital expenditures with respect to environmental compliance save and except as required by permits for construction at its mining operations and for reclamation being carried out concurrently with mining operations and estimates that it will make no material capital expenditures in this area during the fiscal year ending December 31, 1997. During the year ended December 31, 1996 the Company had four small reportable releases or spills at its operations. In all cases the appropriate authorities were notified and clean-up was undertaken immediately. Measures, including procedural changes and education were taken to prevent re-occurrence of the incidents. No action by the authorities is expected in respect of either occurrence. See "Insurance and Mining Risks".
The Company's unpatented mining claims on federal lands are currently subject to procedures established by the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872. Legislation has been introduced in prior and current sessions of the U.S. Congress to make significant revisions to the U.S. Mining Laws including strict new environmental protection standards and conditions, additional reclamation requirements and extensive new procedural steps which would likely result in delays in permitting and which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to develop minerals on federal lands. The proposed revisions would also impose royalties on gold production from unpatented mining claims. Although legislation has not been enacted, attempts to amend these laws can be expected to continue. The extent of the changes that actually will be enacted and their potential impact on the Company cannot be predicted. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory, Environmental and Other Considerations".
RECLAMATION
The Company generally is required to mitigate long-term environmental impacts by stabilizing, contouring, reshaping and revegetating various portions of a site once mining and processing are completed.
Reclamation efforts are conducted in accordance with detailed plans which have been reviewed and approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies. Whenever feasible, reclamation is conducted concurrently with mining. - 21 -
The following table which describes the Company's reserve for reclamation costs indicates that reclamation expenditures, for the past three and one-half years, have not been material.
CALCULATION OF RESERVES
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable mineable reserves including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The estimation of reserves is in part a subjective process and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering, metallurgical and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimates. Assumptions about prices are subject to great uncertainty and prices of gold and silver have fluctuated widely in recent years. Should any significant reduction in reserves occur, material write-downs of the Company's investment in mining properties and/or increased amortization charges may be required.
INSURANCE AND MINING RISKS
Mining operations are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labour disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic conditions, slope failures, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods, blizzards, earthquakes and rock slides.
The open-pit mining operations which the Company carries out are generally subject to such risks, with the primary risk being slope failure. The Company has not experienced any slope failure that has materially affected its open-pit mines however, no assurance can be given that such will not occur. A major slope failure could materially reduce production from the affected - 22 -
area for some time, although for large open-pits, because mining is done in phases whereby pit walls are pushed back to final pit boundaries, a slope failure in one area would not necessarily affect mining in another area or overall pit design.
The Company carries insurance against property damage, including boiler and machinery insurance, and also comprehensive general liability insurance, including special liability policies, applicable to motor vehicles. It is also insured against dishonesty and gold and silver bullion thefts, as well as losses of goods in transit. The property damage and boiler and machinery insurance policies include coverage for business interruption, resulting from an insured loss, subject to a two-day waiting period and a maximum indemnification period of one year. See "Item 2 - Properties" and "Title Matters" below for information pertaining to title insurance held on certain of the Company's mining properties.
The Company is specifically excluded by its insurers from coverage against environmental pollution risks. The Company believes that it has taken adequate precautions to minimize the risk of environmental pollution however, there is some risk that the weak cyanide solution applied to heaps may leak into the adjacent land surface which could result in the Company's operations for the affected heap leach pad being shut down. See "Other Considerations Regulatory and Environmental Factors" and "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory, Environmental and Other Risk Factors".
TITLE MATTERS
Title to mining properties in the western United States involves certain inherent risks due to the impossibility of determining the validity of unpatented claims from real estate records, as well as the potential for problems arising from the frequently ambiguous conveyancing history characteristic of many mining properties. Although the Company believes it conducted reasonable investigations (in accordance with standard mining industry practice) of the validity of ownership of and the ability of its sellers to transfer mining claims and other interests to it, there can be no assurance that it holds good and marketable title to all of its U.S. properties. The Company has conducted limited reviews of title and obtained representations regarding ownership from sellers. The Company's practice is, if possible, to obtain title insurance with respect to its major producing properties. This insurance however is not sufficient to cover loss of investment or of future profits. In addition, certain of the Company's properties have not been surveyed and therefore in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which the properties are located, their existence and area could be in doubt.
PERMITTING
The Company is seeking governmental permits for certain of its development and mining projects. Obtaining such permits is a complex and time consuming process involving numerous federal, state and local agencies. The time involved and success in obtaining such permits is contingent upon many variables not within the Company's control. The failure to obtain such - 23 -
permits could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operations and prospects. See "Item 2 - Properties".
SUPPLIES, UTILITIES AND TRANSPORTATION
The principal supplies needed for the operation of the Company's mines are explosives, diesel fuel, chemical reagents (including cyanide, lime and sodium hydroxide), equipment parts and lubricants.
Power is supplied to the Company's mines by power companies or diesel generators. Each mine has access to adequate water.
Each of the Company's mines has good road access by either paved or gravel roads from state highways.
COMPETITION
The Company competes with other mining companies for the acquisition of mining claims and leases. There is significant and increasing competition for a limited number of gold acquisition opportunities both within the United States and world wide and as a result of this competition, the Company may be unable to acquire attractive gold mining properties on terms acceptable to it.
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN MEXICO AND INDONESIA
The Company has mining interests in Mexico and Indonesia and accordingly the Company may be affected by any political or economic instability which arises in these countries. The risks include, but are not limited to: terrorism, military repression, expropriation, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates and high rates of inflation. Also, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico or Indonesia may adversely affect the Company's business in such countries. In addition, the Company's operations in Mexico and Indonesia will be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of mining claims and concessions, environmental legislation, land use policies, land claims of local people and water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors on the Company's cannot be predicted.
EMPLOYEES
At December 31, 1996, the Company employed approximately 208 persons located as follows: - 24 -
The Company's Rand Mine is unionized. Contract negotiations with the International Longshoremen's & Warehousemen's Union have resulted in a three year agreement, expiring May 1997, which was ratified by the hourly-rated personnel at Rand on May 4, 1994. Negotiations to renew this agreement started on March 11, 1997.
The Picacho Mine is non-union.
The Company competes with other mining companies in connection with the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. At the present time a sufficient supply of qualified workers is available for operations at each of the Picacho and Rand Mines. The continuation of such supply depends upon a number of factors, including, principally, the demand occasioned by other projects. The Company provides its employees with a competitive compensation package and a comprehensive benefits program.
ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
PICACHO MINE, CALIFORNIA
PROPERTY AND MATERIAL AGREEMENTS
Chemgold, Inc. ("Chemgold"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, holds a leasehold interest (the "Picacho Lease") in 31 contiguous patented mining claims (approximately 600 acres) and 100 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 1,650 acres) located in Imperial County, California, approximately 18 miles northwest of Yuma, Arizona. Access to the property is by gravel road from Yuma. The Picacho Lease is between Chemgold and Picacho Development Corp., a California company. The Company's interest in the patented portion of the mineral claims associated with the Picacho Lease is insured in the amount of $6,000,000 under a title insurance policy.
The Picacho Lease has a term of 20 years from September 24, 1979 and contains a right of renewal for a further 20 years. The lease provides for payment of a royalty of 10% of net - 25 -
smelter returns received by the Company from the sale of products mined from the property, subject to a variable minimum annual royalty of $30,000 based on a London Metal Exchange price for gold of $200 per ounce. The minimum royalty increases or decreases by $1,000 per year for each $5 per ounce change in the price of gold. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 royalty expense under the Picacho Lease amounted to $1,319,524.
The Picacho Lease may be terminated by Picacho Development Corp. if Chemgold fails to pay the royalty and other sums payable under the lease, or to perform its obligations thereunder or to perform significant mining work upon the mineral claims which are the subject of the lease for three consecutive years. The Picacho Lease will also terminate if Chemgold files a petition in bankruptcy, if a receiver, trustee or liquidator of Chemgold is appointed, if Chemgold's interest in the Picacho Lease is attached in any proceeding or if the net minimum royalty and earned royalty paid to Picacho Development Corp. does not exceed the minimum royalty payable in each of two consecutive calendar years. Chemgold may terminate the Picacho Lease and all its obligations not yet accrued thereunder on 90 days notice.
PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT AND POWER
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1991 the Company leased 3 new 85 ton "Haul Pack" haul trucks for the Picacho Mine together with a new Caterpillar 992c front end loader and other equipment necessary to carry out mining operations. Subsequent to that time new equipment has been acquired, as required, in order to maintain planned production levels at the Picacho Mine. Current equipment used at the Picacho Mine includes five 85 ton Haulpak trucks plus adequate loading equipment. The equipment is maintained to industry standards in an attempt to achieve the maximum number of available hours of use from the equipment. Equipment expenditures of $758,000 were made during the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 to purchase equipment which had been on lease.
Power at the Picacho Mine site is provided by on-site generators.
HISTORY
The Picacho Mine was first mined in the late nineteenth century, initially by placer mining methods and later as an underground lode mine. By 1911 when mining activity ceased, underground mining had produced approximately 158,000 ounces of gold from ore averaging 0.25 oz/t gold.
Development work conducted to date by the Company on the Picacho Mine consists of drilling over 900 drill holes, constructing roads connecting the workings, levelling and compacting of 107 acres for leach pads, establishing four major open pits, installing five miles of water lines from the Colorado River to the property and constructing an office, shop, laboratory and processing plant. To December 31, 1996 the Company had expended an aggregate of $23,180,000, net of written-off assets, on acquisition, exploration, development, and equipment at the Picacho Mine and had extracted 329,776 ounces of gold. - 26 -
GEOLOGY
The ore at the Picacho Mine is located in a basin of what is thought to be Precambrian gneiss surrounded by Tertiary lava flows and Quaternary gravels. Two types of gold mineralization have been found at the Picacho Mine. The first type of gold mineralization (mined by underground methods in the early years of development of the property) is found in high grade structural zones along or near the contact of the Tertiary volcanics with the Precambrian gneiss. The second type of gold mineralization (currently being mined) consists of gold disseminated throughout the altered and structurally complex Precambrian gneiss. To date, four near-surface areas (the Dulcina-Venus-Mars, Apache, San George and Diablo ore bodies) together with a deeper ore body (the "Dulcina Extension" and the "East Dulcina") having reserves of this second type of ore have been delineated.
MINING OPERATIONS AND RESERVES
Mining at the Picacho Mine is by open-pit methods and ore is processed by the heap leach method. Production by the Company commenced in May of 1980 and to date the four near-surface ore bodies delineated at the Picacho Mine have been mined out. Production is currently occurring from the Dulcina Extension ore body.
Proven and probable mineable reserves for the Picacho Mine have been calculated as at December 31, 1996 within preliminary pit outlines, using a recovery rate of 68.8%, a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton and a gold price of $380 per ounce, at 1,065,500 tons of proven mineable reserves grading 0.034 ounces per ton and 60,700 tons of probable reserves grading 0.059 ounces of gold per ton having a combined stripping ratio of 0.2:1. It is expected that mining of the Dulcina Extension ore body, which is the last known ore body on the property, will continue into the fourth quarter of 1997 before reserves are exhausted.
PERMITTING
The Company has obtained all permits and approvals required to enable it to carry on its mining activities at the Picacho Mine until 65,500,000 tons of ore and waste have been mined. The Conditional Use Permit issued by Imperial County under the California Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975 expires in 2006. The operating permits issued by the California Regional Water Control Board allows the processing of ore within the two currently permitted leaching sites. No new permits will be required in order to mine and leach the total proven and probable reserves of the Picacho Mine known to date. To December 31, 1996, 15,792,150 tons of ore and 39,880,837 tons of waste have been processed. Three completely processed ore heaps have been leached out and neutralized to California State requirements and reclamation of these sites is proceeding according to plan. A fourth heap site has been rinsed and is being tested for final neutralization and the fifth ore heap located on the property, which was completed in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995, is sufficient to handle production for the remainder of the mine life. - 27 -
PRODUCTION
Certain key operating statistics for the Picacho Mine are set forth in the following table:
(1) During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 much of the ore mined was from a chloritic zone in the East Dulcina Pit which yielded a lower than average recovery rate. Mining of this zone was completed by June 30, 1994 and during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995, the six months ended December 31, 1995 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, more normal ore from the Dulcina Extension Pit was placed on the leach pad.
(2) Ratio of waste mined to ore mined.
(3) Cash cost of production includes mining, processing and direct mine overhead costs while royalties, selling, general and administrative costs and depreciation and depletion are excluded.
RAND MINING COMPANY
PROPERTY AND MATERIAL AGREEMENTS
Rand, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operates the Rand Mine which is comprised of 3 ore bodies: the Yellow Aster Pit, the Baltic Pit and the Lamont Pit and three leach pads and related processing facilities: the Yellow Aster Facilities, the Baltic Facilities and the Rand Facilities. In addition, the Rand Mine has old mine dump material that contains recoverable gold which is called the Descarga Deposit.
The operations of Rand were previously categorized separately as operations of the Yellow Aster Mine and of the Baltic Mine, however, due to the commingling of assets of such mines and the sharing of services and equipment between them, the operations of the Yellow Aster Mine and - 28 -
the Baltic Mine have , since October, 1995, been combined to constitute the Rand Mine, which encompasses all of the operations and assets of the Yellow Aster and Baltic Mines.
The Rand Mine is located in the northeast end of the Rand Mountains in Kern County, California, approximately 100 miles northeast of Los Angeles. Highway 395 passes one-half mile east of the property and a branch line of the Southern Pacific Railroad passes seven miles to the north of the property.
The operations at the Rand Mine are conducted on property consisting of a total of 92 patented mining claims and 381 unpatented lode and placer mining claims. Of these, Rand owns all or a portion of 10 of the patented and 254 of the unpatented mining claims. The balance of the patented and unpatented mining claims are held under lease. 32 additional patented mining claims, total 516 acres were quit-claimed to the State of California in 1996 to meet endangered species permit habitat compensation requirements.
Rand holds a lease (the "Yellow Aster Lease") in respect of the patented and certain of the unpatented mining claims covering the Yellow Aster Pit and the Descarga Deposit. The Yellow Aster Lease was acquired from the War Eagle Joint Venture on August 10, 1984 for aggregate consideration of $6,450,000. Rand's interest in the patented portion of the mining claims comprising the Yellow Aster Mine is insured in the amount of $10,000,000 under a title insurance policy.
Under the Yellow Aster Lease Rand is required to pay to Yellow Aster Mining and Milling Company a production royalty of 6% of net returns less certain costs from the sale of ore produced from the mining claims which are subject to the Yellow Aster Lease, subject to a minimum monthly royalty of $4,000. The Yellow Aster Lease will continue for as long as the royalty is paid.
On May 18, 1990 Rand exercised an option agreement to purchase from Echo Bay Mines Ltd., for $5,000,000 plus a 1% net smelter return royalty, a parcel of land (the "Baltic Lands") immediately adjacent to the lands comprised in the Yellow Aster Lease. On June 29, 1990 the acquired property was assigned to GGX and on January 1, 1991 GGX leased the property to Rand. GGX purchased the 1% net smelter return royalty for $300,000 on September 28, 1990.
By an agreement effective as of August 31, 1990 with DRX, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("DRX") and Westland Minerals Exploration Co. ("Westland"), a Colorado corporation, (DRX and Westland collectively being the "Vendors"), GGX agreed to acquire a 1-1/2% net smelter return interest held by the Vendors in respect of mineral production from the Baltic Lands. The consideration paid by GGX for the interest was $412,500. The Baltic Lands are subject to various underlying royalty interests which average 1.5% and minimum annual property payments which range from $153,000 to $293,000. See note 4(b)(ii) to the consolidated financial statements. - 29 -
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, royalty expense at the Rand Mine amounted to $1,472,369.
By an agreement effective July 2, 1991 with the Vendors, the Company purchased 54 unpatented lode mining claims and one leasehold mineral interest for $200,000 and the grant to Westland of a 1.5% net smelter return interest in the purchased lands. On September 30, 1992 the Company purchased an additional 16 unpatented lode mining claims from Westland for $32,000. These interests form part of the Rand Mine and though they have limited exploration potential, expand the area of operations for the Rand Mine and eliminate any potential claim boundary disputes between the Company and Westland concerning certain of the mineral claims related to the Rand Mine. By agreement dated April 22, 1993 all other mineral claims of DRX and Westland which formed part of an exploration agreement between GGX and Westland dated June 29, 1991 were purchased for $75,000, and the 1.5% net smelter return royalty was purchased by Rand for $5,000.
PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT AND POWER
During 1996, a fleet of 5 new 190 ton haulage trucks, one new 27 cubic yard hydraulic shovel, one used 16 cubic yard shovel and other equipment necessary for mining at the Rand Mine were purchased. The older fleet of 85 and 100 ton trucks was retired, except that one of the 100 ton trucks was converted to a water truck, and one has been retained. The two 14 cubic yard loaders were converted to duty as back-up loaders. Total equipment expenditure during 1996 amounted to $13,312,449. All equipment is maintained to industry standards in an attempt to achieve the maximum number of available hours of use from the equipment.
Rand draws power from Southern California Edison, a California utilities corporation.
HISTORY
According to the records of the U.S. Bureau of Mines, there was production from certain parts of the Rand Mine from underground and open-pit mining operations during the period 1897 to 1963, during which 597,000 ounces of gold and 155,000 ounces of silver were produced from 4,227,600 tons of ore mined. In addition, from 1938 to the closing of the mine in the early 1940's, reprocessing of the mine dumps and tailings produced 46,698 ounces of gold and 16,381 ounces of silver from 2,217,607 tons of material.
Rand commenced production on the mineral claims associated with the Yellow Aster Lease in January of 1987. As at December 31, 1996, Rand had expended an aggregate of $77,592,000, net of written-off assets, on acquisition, exploration, development and equipment at the Rand Mine and had extracted 443,266 ounces of gold. - 30 -
GEOLOGY
The mining rights associated with the Yellow Aster Lease initially consisted of three mineable deposits: the Yellow Aster deposit, ("Yellow Aster Pit"), the Descarga deposit ("Descarga Deposit") and the initial Lamont deposit, ("Initial Lamont Deposit").
The Initial Lamont Deposit has been mined out. The ore located in the Yellow Aster Pit is contained in fractured Precambrian schists and Mesozoic intrusives. This ore lies between a series of east-west striking, north dipping faults; northwest striking, east dipping faults on the east, and a northeast striking, west dipping fault on the west. Between the major faults the ground is severely fractured and the rock is highly to moderately oxidized. Mineralized solutions migrated along these structures and disseminated out into the fractured rock. The Descarga Deposit consists of mine dump material from earlier operations carried out on the Property.
Two ore bodies lie within the bounds of the Baltic Lands: the Baltic deposit ("Baltic Pit") and the Lamont deposit ("Lamont Pit"), which is adjacent to the Initial Lamont Deposit. Gold mineralization located in the Baltic Pit is hosted by the Rand Schist and controlled by two intersecting fault structures. The brecciated rock within the structures, the north striking, east dipping Baltic fault and the east striking, north dipping Lamont fault, contains most of the mineralization and controls the depth of mineral oxidation. The primary mineral resource is contained within the oxidized and mixed oxide-nonoxide zones of the deposit.
Gold mineralization located in the Lamont Pit is hosted by the Rand Schist and is controlled by the east striking, north dipping Lamont fault structure and associated shear system. The brecciated rock within this structure contains most of the mineralization and also controls the depth of mineral oxidation. The Lamont structure is affected by several north striking, post mineralization faults that have relocated mineralized blocks along the Lamont structure. The primary mineral resource is contained within the oxidized and mixed oxide-nonoxide zones of the deposit.
MINING OPERATIONS AND RESERVES
Mining at the Rand Mine is by open-pit methods and ore is processed by the heap leach method. Production commenced from the Descarga Deposit and Initial Lamont Deposit in January of 1987 utilizing one leach pad and a recovery plant. Processing of material from the Descarga Deposit was suspended in 1989 to concentrate on mining the Initial Lamont Deposit which was mined out by the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990.
Mining from the Yellow Aster Pit started in May of 1990 employing an additional recovery plant and leach pad (the "Yellow Aster Facilities"). The heap leach pad of these facilities reached its maximum capacity in February 1996. The remaining ore from the Yellow Aster Pit will be processed at the Rand Facilities (see "Rand Pad and Process Facilities" below). The Yellow - 31 -
Aster Pit has a projected mine life of 9 years and is expected to operate at a 63% recovery rate for gold.
323 reverse circulation drill holes totalling 159,453 feet, and 331 rotary drill holes totalling 47,021 feet have been used to define the reserves of the Yellow Aster Pit where mineable proven and probable reserves have been calculated as at December 31, 1996 within preliminary pit outlines, using a computerized variable recovery block model, a cut-off grade of 0.005 ounces of recoverable gold per ton and a gold price of $400 per ounce, at 35,560,000 tons of proven reserves grading 0.021 ounces of gold per ton and 17,973,000 tons of probable reserves grading 0.017 ounces of gold per ton, having a combined stripping ratio of 1.87:1.
A recovery plant and a leach pad (the "Baltic Facilities") have been built to primarily process ore from the Baltic Pit. Production commenced from the Baltic Pit in August of 1993 and production commenced from the Lamont Pit in September, 1995. Initially ore from the Lamont Pit was processed by the Baltic Facilities however, by December 1995 the ore was being processed by the Rand Facilities (see "Rand Pad and Process Facilities" below). An economic analysis conducted in 1996 indicated that mining and processing of Yellow Aster ore was more profitable than the Baltic and Lamont ore. Therefore, mining in the Baltic and Lamont pits has been temporarily suspended. In addition, metallurgical studies of unoxidized ore in such pits is on going to develop an enhanced processing method for such ore.
787 drill holes, including 588 reverse circulation drill holes and 199 air track drill holes, totalling 220,097 feet have been used to define the reserves of the Baltic and Lamont Pits.
As at December 31, 1996, proven and probable mineable reserves for the Baltic Pit were calculated within preliminary pit designs at 2,417,000 tons of proven reserves and 16,000 tons of probable reserves, having a stripping ratio of 0.64:1 and grading 0.036 ounces of gold per ton, using recovery rates of 70% for oxide ore, 25% for mixed ore and 10% for unoxidized ore, a cut-off grade of 0.008 ounces of gold per ton for oxide ore, 0.015 ounces per ton for mixed ore and 0.035 ounces per ton for unoxidized ore and a gold price of $400 per ounce.
As at December 31, 1996, proven and probable mineable reserves for the Lamont Pit were calculated within preliminary pit designs at 13,089,000 tons of proven reserves and 553,000 tons of probable reserves, having a stripping ratio of 1.65:1 and grading 0.020 ounces of gold per ton, using a computerized variable recovery block model, a cut-off grade of 0.005 ounces of recoverable gold per ton and a gold price of $400 per ounce.
PERMITTING
All permits required to allow for the mining and processing of the proven and probable mineable ore reserves of the Yellow Aster, Baltic and Lamont Pits have been obtained and are in good standing. These permits provide for continued mining from these pits, development of a new Lamont Valley waste rock stockpile and transport of ore from the Pits to the newly permitted - 32 -
Rand Facilities (see "Rand Pad and Process Facilities" below). These permits include an approved reclamation plan for all the above facilities.
RAND PAD AND PROCESS FACILITIES (FORMERLY THE RAND PROJECT)
As at December 31, 1996 all permits necessary for the development of the Rand Pad and Process Facilities (the "Rand Facilities") had been received. The permits allow for the mining of 60,000,000 tons of additional ore through expansion of operations at the Yellow Aster, Baltic and Lamont Pits and the development of a satellite mine, the development of waste rock stockpile facilities sufficient for the storage of 72,000,000 tons of waste in the West Valley and Lamont Valley, the construction of a 60,000,000 ton capacity heap leach pad and plant in the Lamont Valley and provisions for the installation of the ancillary and infrastructure services required by these facilities. The permits also allow for an additional 5,000,000 tons of ore to be placed on the Baltic heap leach pad and the construction of a 6,000,000 ton capacity heap leach pad and related processing facility in the area of the Descarga Deposit. These permits limit production levels at the Rand Mine to a life-of-mine average amounting to 18,250,000 total tons per year.
The permits include certification of the Environmental Impact Report/Environmental Impact Statement, approval of the Reclamation Plan, approval of the BLM Plan of Operations, issue of the Kern County, California, Conditional Use Permit, approval of the California Regional Water Quality Control Board Report of Waste Discharge, receipt of the Kern County Air Pollution Control District Authorities to Construct, completion of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Section 7 endangered species consultation, receipt of the California Department of Fish and Game's Section 2081 endangered species permits and management agreements, and a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Section 404 Nationwide Fill Permit.
Phase I of the Rand Facilities comprised of heap leach pad and processing facility construction was completed in January, 1996 and the first gold was recovered from these facilities during February 1996. - 33 -
PRODUCTION
Certain key operating statistics for the Rand Mine are set forth in the following table:
(1) Ratio of waste mined to ore mined.
(2) During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, the unoxidized and mixed oxide-nonoxide ore from the Baltic Pit which was placed on the leach pad yielded a lower than expected recovery rate. Mining of this type of ore has been suspended pending further metallurgical studies. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Production".
(3) Cash cost of production includes mining, processing and direct mine overhead costs while royalties, selling, general and administrative costs and depreciation and depletion are excluded.
OTHER LANDS
ALTO MINE, CALIFORNIA
The reclamation of the Alto Mine has been completed and the Company has been released from all bonding requirements. Full control of the property has reverted to the owner.
IMPERIAL PROJECT, CALIFORNIA
MATERIAL AGREEMENTS
Pursuant to a Joint Venture Agreement dated November 24, 1987, GGX, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, held a 65% interest and Imperial Gold Corporation ("Imperial Gold"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arizona Star Resources Corp., held a 35% interest in 567 unpatented mining claims (the "Imperial County Claims") covering approximately 10,800 acres in eastern Imperial County, California. Pursuant to a purchase agreement dated February 18, 1994, GGX acquired Imperial Gold's 35% interest in the Imperial County Claims by paying $1,000,000 in cash and assigning to Imperial Gold its 15% share interest in Idaho Gold - 34 -
Corporation, which had a book value of $917,000 and a 1.5% net smelter return interest in the Imperial County Claims. The Company has since expanded its land position at the Imperial Project to 610 claims covering approximately 11,250 acres. During fiscal 1996, a title opinion was issued on the claims encompassing the project showing the Company has valid claim to the land covering the Imperial Project. To date, approximately $9,601,000 has been expended on acquisition and exploration of the Imperial Project.
GEOLOGY
The Imperial Project lies to the north and west of the Picacho Mine and south and east of Santa Fe Pacific Gold's Mesquite Mine.
The geology of the Imperial Project consists of Mesozoic age gneissic and schist units unconformably overlain by Tertiary basalts and Quaternary gravels. The basal gneissic units are the upper part of a deeper Chocolate Mountain thrust system which moved northeastward over the Orocopia Schist. The immediate project area is structurally characterized as a northwest trending thrust sheet of gneissic rocks cut by a network of curved faults (flower structures). The gneissic units are in part thrust over the footwall metamorphic and sedimentary units. Northwest trending high angle step faults displace mineralization to the south and truncate the deposit to the east and west.
Major structural features appear to have acted as conduits, forming the geologic setting for Imperial Project mineralization. Mineralization occurs primarily in thick quartz-biotite gneissic and sericitic units. The basic rock-ore types are biotite gneiss and sericite gneiss with gradational schistose sequences. The biotite gneiss package occurs across the entire project area while sericite rich units are more prevalent in the eastern portion of the deposit.
Primary gold mineralization occurs within hematitic and limonitic altered breccias, microfractures and gouge zones developed in the host biotite and sericite ore types. Minor quartz veining, very fine grained pyrite pseudomorphs and silicified zones are also common.
Density of fractures, extent of the red-brown to yellow hematitic/limonitic coatings and pyrite pseudomorphs within the host units are notable mineralized features. Logging of core and cuttings from the project site indicate no fresh pyrite or sulfide mineralization is present due to the oxidized state exhibited throughout the deposit.
Sporadic mineralization is also noted along the gravel and volcanic contact and in fault structures through the brecciated volcanic units. Low grade mineralization also occurs within the overlying gravels as thin layers eroded from exposed mineralized gneissic units. - 35 -
RESERVES
Approximately 178,690 feet of reverse circulation and 4,240 feet of core drilling have been completed over several areas on the Imperial Project. Additionally, exploration programs completed to date consist of geologic mapping and geochemical and geophysical surveys.
Drilling, geological interpretation and mine evaluation studies have resulted in the delineation of a proven and probable mineable ore resource for the Imperial Project as at December 31, 1996 within preliminary pit outlines, using a 73% recovery rate, a cut-off grade of 0.007 ounces of gold per ton and a gold price of $400 per ounce, at 81,623,700 tons of proven reserves grading 0.016 ounces per ton and 13,504,500 tons of probable reserves grading 0.014 ounces of gold per ton, having a combined stripping ratio of 2.64:1.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
A Final Feasibility Study completed on the Imperial Project in 1996 showed that the project was financially sound and would provide a positive return on investment. On May 2, 1996, the Board of Directors approved the project and directed the Company to proceed with permitting, detailed engineering and procurement. It is anticipated that the permits will be acquired by the last quarter of fiscal 1997 with construction proceeding shortly thereafter.
The Company anticipates spending $47.6 million in 1997 in initial capital to bring the project into operation. Initial gold production is anticipated in the first quarter of fiscal 1998.
MEXICO
EXPLORATION
The Company's exploration program in Mexico, which was curtailed during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995, did not result in any prospects which meet the criteria of the Company for open pit heap leach operations and only limited exploration activity was carried out in Mexico during the year ended December 31, 1996.
CIENEGUITA PROPERTY, MEXICO
JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT
By letter agreement (the "Agreement") dated August 13, 1992, the Company acquired the right to earn a 60% interest in the Cieneguita property (the "Cieneguita Property"), located in Chihuahua, Mexico, from Aquiline Resources Inc. ("Aquiline"), of Vancouver, British Columbia. The Cieneguita Property consists of one exploitation claim and two exploration claims. - 36 -
Under the Agreement the Company acquired, by way of a private placement, 500,000 common shares of Aquiline at a price of $0.30 per share and in August of 1993 acquired an additional 545,454 common shares of Aquiline at a price of $0.55 per share. During July 1994 an additional 545,454 common shares were acquired at a price of $0.65 per share upon the exercise of warrants. These shares were sold by the Company during the year ended December 31, 1996, for total consideration of Cdn.$1,590,908.
Aquiline has the right, exercisable until December 4, 1998, to acquire a 100% right, title and interest, subject to a 3% net smelter return royalty, in the Cieneguita Property pursuant to the terms and conditions of an Option to Purchase, Exploration and Exploitation Agreement (the "Option Agreement") made between Aquiline's wholly-owned Mexican subsidiary, Minera Aquilon, S.A. de C.V. and Minera Cuicuilco S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation.
Aquiline may exercise the option under the Option Agreement by paying $300,000 over a 6-year period. In turn the Company may earn 60% of Aquiline's rights under the Option Agreement by making the cash payments when due under the Option Agreement, by paying all other costs required to keep the claims in good standing and by paying all other expenditures in respect of exploration on the property until such time as the Company wishes to proceed to place the property into commercial production in accordance with a feasibility report prepared in respect of the property.
In May 1995, the Company and Aquiline entered into a joint venture agreement for the further development of the Cieneguita Property to bring it into production. Under the terms of this joint venture agreement, the Company will continue to be the operator of the property, will contribute certain equipment to the joint venture at an agreed value and will fund Aquiline's 40% share of the costs required to bring the property into production. The Company will receive 100% of the net income from metals produced from the Cieneguita Property until such time as the Company has recovered Aquiline's 40% share of the total contributions, plus interest at bank prime plus 2%, at which time further profits will be shared in proportion to the venturer's participating interest at the time, which currently is 40% to Aquiline and 60% to the Company. The Company has opened negotiations with Aquiline to increase the Company's percentage interest in the joint venture.
James R. Billingsley, a director and Vice-President of the Company, was a director of Aquiline up to July, 1996. See Item 13 - "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions".
GEOLOGY
The Cieneguita deposit lies in the Sierra Madre Occidental structural Arch and Tertiary Volcanic province, which stretches from the Mexican-U.S. border south to the transverse neovolcanic belt of Central Mexico. The oldest rocks in the area are the basement Cretaceous clastic and calcareous sediments. These are overlain by the lower volcanic series which averages 1 km in thickness and is mainly composed of andesitic lavas and pyroclastics of Palaeocene-early Eocene - 37 -
age. The unconformity overlying the upper volcanic series also averages 1 km in thickness and mainly consists of massive silicic ignumbrites of Oligocene-Miocene age.
The deposit is located in the flat lying andesites and andesitic agglomerates of the lower volcanic series. The agglomeratic rocks form a more porous host than the andesites and, in that sense, the mineralization is somewhat stratigraphically controlled. The main controlling structure, however, trends at 060 degrees and appears to be vertical thus cross-cutting stratigraphy. The rocks within the deposit have been intensely altered to a suite of sericite, kaolin, jarosite and goethite with variable but minor amounts of silicification. Oxidized mineralization forms an outcropping blanket from approximately 6 feet to 60 feet thick.
The alteration and mineralization on the property is well defined along a zone 1000 m. long by 200 m. wide. The deposit is cut off at the east end by a fault trending at 150 degrees and is lost at the west end in areas of overburden.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
To date, 6,700 metres of diamond drilling has been carried out on the Cieneguita Property which has delineated an auriferous zone 1,000 metres long and 200 metres wide, which outcrops. As at December 31, 1996, deferred costs, including property payments and exploration and development expenditures amounted to $2,338,000.
A grid was established on the property and 180 samples were collected from pits spaced 20 meters by 40 meters. Results returned an average grade of 0.052 ounces of gold per ton. Column leach tests were conducted on various sizes and types of ore taken from the surface pits. An 8,000 tonne bulk heap leach test was carried out which indicated recoveries of approximately 70% for gold and 6% for silver. During mining it was found that the ore is exceedingly friable in some places while in other places it appears to require agglomeration prior to leaching. A contract has been arranged with a management group from Hermosillo to use the existing facilities and to start production on a small scale. It is planned that a maximum of 5,000 ounces of gold will be produced per year once the heap leach pad has been expanded to accommodate additional ore. The first dore produced from the property was poured in November 1995.
LA JOJOBA PROPERTY, SONORA, MEXICO
In May 1995, the Company entered into an option agreement with Aquiline to earn an undivided 75% interest in the La Jojoba property located in the State of Sonora, Mexico. Under the agreement the Company is required to fund the exploration and development expenditures, make all property payments as required by the underlying agreements with the property owner and prepare a feasibility study on the property. The agreement provides that on completion of a positive feasibility study, Aquiline may elect to maintain its 25% interest by funding its share of further development costs or can assign its interest to the Company in exchange for a 3% net smelter return royalty. - 38 -
13 percussion and 26 reserve circulation drill holes have been drilled on the property. Drilling was concentrated in a favourable zone with 5 holes drilled to investigate mineralized areas outside of the zone. Results from the drilling and metallurgical testing have been evaluated and the Company has delivered a notice of termination to Aquiline. During the year ended December 31, 1996, costs including, property payments and exploration and development expenditures amounting to $198,000 were expensed.
James R. Billingsley, a director and Vice-President of the Company, resigned as a director of Aquiline in July of 1996. See Item 13 - "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions".
INDONESIA - GUNUNG PANI JOINT VENTURE PROJECT
The Company entered into a Letter Agreement dated August 14, 1996 with Paramount Ventures & Finance Inc. ("Paramount") of Vancouver, British Columbia, pursuant to which the Company has the option to earn 50% of Paramount's interest in the Gunung Pani Gold Project located on Sulawesi Island in Indonesia. The property consists of two parcels of land totalling 2,113 hectares, located just off a paved road 170 kilometers west of the capital of Sulawesi. Paramount has the option of earning an 80% interest in the property by paying all costs associated with the property until the time of delivery of a positive feasibility study and may increase its interest to 95% by making a cash payment of $15,000,000 to the property vendor. Paramount currently holds its interest in the property through a Memorandum of Understanding dated July 26, 1996 made with P.T. Pertiwi Nusamega ("Pertiwi") and a Joint Venture Agreement dated September 28, 1996 with Pertiwi. Pertiwi will hold the remaining 20% interest in the property upon the Company and Paramount exercising their option. The Joint Venture Agreement provides for the making of an application for contracts of work, which has not yet been made, with respect to the property. Paramount is currently in the process of preparing those applications.
The Company may exercise its option to earn a 40% interest in the Property by paying all exploration and development costs in respect of the project until delivery of a bankable feasibility study (the "Option Period") and will have the right to acquire one-half of the additional 15% interest which Paramount may acquire, for cash consideration of $7,500,000. During the Option Period, Paramount will be responsible for paying all other costs of maintaining the property in good standing. Upon exercise of the option, the Company and Paramount will each pay 50% of the costs of the project.
The Company will be the operator of exploration and development activities on the property during the Option Period and will remain as the operator after the exercise of the option.
Between 1981 and 1990, 29 diamond drill holes aggregating 4,556 meters and 3 adits totalling 220 meters were completed on the property by a major mining company. This work indicates the potential of a large disseminated gold deposit being located on the property.
The Company anticipates spending from $l,500,000 to $2,000,000 on the property during 1997, which funds will come from the Company's current working capital. - 39 -
As part of the transaction with Paramount, the Company acquired 2,000,000 special warrants of Paramount at a price of Cdn.$2.25 each, for a total consideration of Cdn.$4,500,000 ($3,300,000). Each special warrant is exercisable into one unit comprised of one common share of Paramount and one-half of one share purchase warrant. Each whole share purchase warrant is exercisable at Cdn.$2.50 to acquire one common share of Paramount over a one-year period. The value of the common shares of Paramount which underlie the special warrants acquired by the Company, based on a share price of Cdn.$2.02, the closing price for shares of Paramount on the Vancouver Stock Exchange on March 13, 1997, is Cdn.$4,040,000.
To date the Company has drilled 9 diamond drill holes on the property, which were positioned to test extensions of the known mineralization in what is known as the KUD area. Assay results have been received for three of the holes. Two of the holes testing the east and west extremities of the known mineralization intersected low grade disseminated gold mineralization and the third hole, testing the southern extremity of the known mineralization yielded no significant results.
ITEM 3