ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
CHEMGOLD, INC. (PICACHO MINE, CALIFORNIA)
PROPERTY
Chemgold, Inc. ("Chemgold"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Glamis Gold, Inc., holds a leasehold interest (the "Picacho Lease") in 31 contiguous patented mining claims (approximately 600 acres) and 75 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 1,150 acres) located in Imperial County, California, approximately 18 miles northwest of Yuma, Arizona. Access to the property is by gravel road from Yuma. The Picacho Lease is between Chemgold and Picacho Development Corp., a California company. The Picacho Lease had a term of 20 years from September 24, 1979 and contained a right of renewal for a further 20 years. The lease expired in September 1999 and the terms are currently being renegotiated.
RECLAMATION ACTIVITIES
Proven and probable mineable reserves for the Picacho Mine were exhausted in January 1998, when mining of the last known ore body at the Picacho Mine was completed, on target with life-of-mine projections. Four completely processed ore heaps have been leached out and neutralized to California State requirements and reclamation of these sites has been completed. It is expected that leaching of the fifth ore heap located on the property will be completed during 2000 after which all
-22-
operations, other than reclamation, at the Picacho Mine will be terminated. Reclamation is expected to be completed by the year 2002, with continued re-vegetation monitoring thereafter.
PRODUCTION
Certain key operating statistics for the Picacho Mine are set forth in the following table:
PICACHO MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
GLAMIS RAND MINING COMPANY
PROPERTY
Glamis Rand Mining Company ("Rand") is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Glamis Gold Inc. and operates the Rand Mine located in Kern County, California, approximately 100 miles northeast of Los Angeles.
The property consists of 135 patented mining claims and 537 unpatented claims covering approximately 13.8 square miles. Rand owns all or a portion of 42 of the patented and 390 of the unpatented claims. The balance is held under lease.
Royalty rates are 6% of net smelter returns on production from properties leased from Yellow Aster Mining and Milling Company, with a minimum payment of $4,000 per month. Other leases have advance minimum royalties as well as net smelter return royalties. These have no significant minimum required payments, and the royalties average 1.5%. Royalty expense at Rand during 1999 amounted to $960,849.
The Rand Mine is an open-pit heap-leach operation. Mining has occurred on three areas within the property; the Yellow Aster Pit, the Lamont Pit, and the Baltic Pit. Mining has been completed in the Baltic Pit. The primary source of all remaining ore is the Yellow Aster Pit and a minor amount of ore is expected to come from the Lamont pit in the final year of mining.
OPERATIONS
Mining at the Rand Mine utilizes 27 cubic yard hydraulic shovels and 190 ton haulage trucks. The fleet of five trucks and two shovels mined 12,870,300 tons of waste and 7,206,700 tons of ore in 1999. The average grade of ore was 0.020 ounces per ton resulting in 145,602 ounces of gold being stacked on the heap. Rand produced 70,978 ounces during 1999.
There are five heap leach pads within the property, two of which are still active, the Rand and the Baltic heaps. The other three have been or are in the process of being rinsed and/or reclaimed. Although the Baltic heap has room for an additional 3,800,000 tons of ore, planned operations call for the Rand heap to receive the bulk of all remaining ore over the remaining mine life.
-23-
PERMITTING
All environmental regulatory permits, licenses and authorizations required to carry out planned operations at the Rand Mine and to process the proven and probable ore reserves have been obtained and are in good standing.
EXPLORATION
Exploration activities during 1999 consisted of trenching in lands to the south of the mine. Additional trench work and limited reverse circulation drilling will be completed in 2000.
PRODUCTION
Certain key operating statistics for the Rand Mine are set forth in the following table:
RAND MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
GLAMIS DAISY MINING COMPANY
The Glamis Daisy Mining Company ("Daisy") is a 100%-owned subsidiary of Glamis Gold, Ltd. The Daisy Mine was acquired through the Rayrock acquisition in 1999.
PROPERTY
The Daisy Mine is an open-pit heap-leach operation. The Daisy property is located in Nye County, Nevada, approximately six miles southeast of Beatty. The property package consists of unpatented mining claims covering 13.7 square miles. Most of the claims are subject to gross royalties ranging from 1% to 2% of net smelter returns per annum. Royalties paid during the period from March 1 to December 31, 1999 totaled $233,583.
Three of the known mineralized zones have been mined: West Zone, Mother Lode and Secret Pass. Mining in the Secret Pass Zone was completed in December 1999, and mining in the Mother Lode and West Zone were completed prior to that. All mining in 1999 was completed utilizing a contractor.
The Reward Project, which covers about 1.6 square miles and is located about six miles southwest of Daisy, was acquired from Barrick Bullfrog Inc., a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation, in February 1998. Permits to mine Reward have been received and development of this property could commence with an improvement in the price of gold
-24-
OPERATIONS
During 1999, Daisy produced 28,302 ounces for the Company's account during the period March 1 to December 31, 1999.
A contractor conducted the mining operations with Daisy employees supervising the mining and operating the heap leaching and the carbon column gold adsorption plant. Loaded carbon is transported to the Marigold mine, where gold is removed from the carbon and refined into dore for sale. Pending a decision on the Reward project, mining at the property will remain in a temporary suspension mode, with leaching and rinsing of the heaps being the primary activities taking place. Reclamation of the waste stockpiles will also occur during this time.
EXPLORATION
Very little exploration took place in 1999 at Daisy. Thirty eight holes were completed at the Reward Project and adjacent lands in 1999.
DAISY MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
GLAMIS DEE MINING COMPANY
The Glamis Dee Mining Company ("Dee") is a 100%-owned subsidiary of Glamis Gold, Ltd. The Dee Mine was acquired in March 1999 as part of the acquisition of Rayrock.
PROPERTY
The Dee property, located in Elko County, Nevada, consists of 6.3 square miles of unpatented mining claims along the Carlin Trend in northeastern Nevada. The property lies immediately south of Meridian's Rossi property and immediately northwest of Newmont's Bootstrap property.
Pursuant to the terms of a lease agreement with respect to unpatented claims on 4.5 square miles of the property, Dee pays gross royalties ranging from 4% to 6% of net smelter returns, with a minimum, semi-annual royalty payment of $100,000. Royalty payments amounted to $587,000 in 1999.
GLAMIS-BARRICK AGREEMENT
The Glamis-Barrick Agreement, originally entered into as the Dee-Barrick Agreement, was signed in 1997. The agreement allows Barrick to earn a 60% interest in the Dee property (outside of an excluded area in which the current Dee operations are being conducted) by spending $4 million by October 10, 2000 and a total of $6.5 million by October 10, 2004. Barrick
-25-
also pays Dee an annual fee of $275,000 while this agreement is in place. Dee is free to exploit any and all ore reserves within the exclusion area.
OPERATIONS
Prior to 1999, the Dee Mine had been an open pit mine using an oxide mill with heap leach facilities for a small portion of the ore mined. Rayrock had planned to mine the deeper ore beneath the Dee pit using underground mining methods. Following the acquisition of Rayrock in March of 1999, a plan was approved by the Company to proceed with the underground mining of the remaining deep reserves, while continuing the operation of a smaller open pit fleet to complete mining of two small open pit areas.
In April 1999, a contract was awarded to American Mine Services of Boulder Colorado to develop and mine the Dee north underground ore body. On November 1, 1999 this contract was terminated and another contractor, Small Mine Development of Boise, Idaho, was hired to continue mining and developing the underground mine.
In preparation for the mining of higher-grade underground ore, the oxide mill was significantly modified. These modifications were initiated by Rayrock, and were completed in late 1999 by the Company. Total capital expenditures for these modifications were $340,000. The total capital development cost for the underground mine itself in 1999 was approximately $4.6 million.
During calendar year 1999, the Dee mill processed 433,491 tons of mill ore and an additional 171,174 tons of low-grade ore were placed on heap leach pads to produce a total of 38,332 ounces of gold. From March 1 to December 31, 1999, 31,154 ounces were produced for the Company's account. Of the 433,491 tons of ore processed in 1999, 49,687 tons came from development of the underground mine.
A significant portion of the open pit mining activity is directed at completing reclamation work at the property. Much of the overburden is suitable for cover material on the closed leach pads and is utilized as such; part is being used to raise the tailings lift of the #1 tailings dam.
PERMITTING
All environmental regulatory permits, licenses and authorizations required to carry out planned operations at the Dee Mine and to process the proven and probable ore reserves have been obtained and are in good standing.
EXPLORATION
Exploration outside of the exclusion area is conducted by Barrick as part of their earn-in. Within the exclusion area, exploration has been limited to development drilling for the underground mine.
-26-
DEE MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
GLAMIS MARIGOLD MINING COMPANY
Glamis Marigold Mining Company ("Marigold") owns the Company's 66 2/3% interest in the Marigold Mine, which was acquired through the acquisition of Rayrock in March, 1999. The Company is the operating partner; Homestake Mining Company holds the remaining 33 1/3 % interest.
PROPERTY
The mine is located in Humboldt County, 40 miles southeast of Winnemucca, Nevada at the north end of the Battle Mountain-Eureka Trend that extends through central Nevada. Located five miles south of Valmy, Nevada, the property consists of 28.9 square miles, including 13 square miles of leased patented land. The remaining 15.9 square miles are unpatented mining claims, 6.1 square miles of which are not subject to royalties.
Royalty rates on leased land range from 3% to 5% of net smelter returns, with rates rising to 7% or 8% on certain parcels depending on the price of gold. The rate for the remaining life of mine is anticipated to average approximately 6.5%. Total royalty payments in 1999 were $1,455,232.
OPERATIONS
The Marigold Mine produced 54,377 ounces of gold (100%) during the portion of 1999 that the Company was the owner, at a total cash cost of production of $218 per ounce. For the full calendar year 1999, the mine produced 74,220 ounces of gold compared to the prior year's production of 71,936 ounces. Production came from both mill operations and run-of-mine heap leach operations. In 1999 the mill produced 15,850 ounces and the remaining 58,370 ounces came from heap leach production. The prior year's ounces were split at 27,818 ounces from the mill and 44,118 ounces from the heap leach.
The oxide mill operated during the winter months of 1998-1999 and was shut down in March 1999. After the Company acquired the Marigold Mine, it was determined that operation of the mill was not economical until adequate mill feed becomes available to have the mill processing continuously. The mill production was therefore suspended, and it will remain idle until higher-grade ore zones are encountered in the pit. The Company believes this may occur in late 2001, at which time the economics of operating the mill will be re-addressed.
With the suspension of production from the mill, the Marigold Mine became a 100% run-of-mine heap leach operation. During 1999, essentially all of the production for the Company's account came from the operation of the heap leach pads.
-27-
The mining fleet at Marigold consists of three 992 front-end loaders, nine 85 to 100 ton haul trucks and miscellaneous ancillary equipment. Ore production came primarily from East Hill South, East Hill North, Top Zone Stage I, Old Marigold and East Hill South Stage 2 pits. For 1999 the combined production from these pits was 90,397 contained ounces. The average stripping ratio for 1999 was 2.42:1
Capital expenditures in 1999 were $1.65 million for fixed assets - primarily for the purchase of two used haul trucks and expansion of the leach pads.
The mine has operated with a plan of operations approved by the Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") and appropriate agencies since it began mining in 1988. This plan of operations was based on an environmental assessment. In 1998 it was decided that further amendments to the plan of operation could only be achieved through the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS") which will cover most of the presently anticipated operations throughout its remaining life. The Draft EIS was issued by the BLM on February 11, 2000. No significant issues were raised in the Draft EIS. The BLM is now accepting public comment on the Draft EIS and will address those comments in the Final EIS. The Company has been advised by the BLM that the Final EIS and a Record of Decision on the Company's proposed operations will be issued by August 2000.
EXPLORATION
Exploration activities during 1999 were primarily aimed at expanding reserves in and around existing pits. These efforts resulted in the addition of over 84,000 ounces to proven and probable reserves at an average grade of 0.030 ounces of gold per ton.
Some deep drilling was completed on the south end of the Marigold property in accordance with agreements with certain leaseholders to test deep potential. Although no economic gold was detected, results were encouraging as some gold anomalies were encountered at depth, and favorable host rocks were found.
MARIGOLD MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
OTHER LANDS
SAN MARTIN PROJECT (MINERALES ENTRE MARES HONDURAS, S.A.)
Minerales Entre Mares Honduras is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Glamis Gold Ltd. which was acquired through the acquisition of Mar-West in October 1998. The property is located about 55 miles north of the capital city of Tegucigalpa, Honduras. During 1999 the Company expanded
-28-
the reserves at San Martin to over one million contained ounces of gold and prepared a feasibility study for mining operations.
PROPERTY
The property consists of 14,100 hectares of land around the soon-to-be-mined Rosa and Palo Alto deposits. San Martin is located in an area that receives an average annual rainfall of approximately one meter.
On March 13, 2000, the Company received the final permits to mine at San Martin. Authorization to construct was previously received and earthwork construction and equipment procurement for the mine has begun.
PLANNED OPERATIONS
San Martin will be an open-pit heap-leach mine and is designed to be a low cost operation. The Company currently expects the total tonnes mined per year during the first 6 years will vary between 4 and 5.1 million tonnes, over 80% of which is expected to be ore. Conventional loaders and haul trucks will form the primary mining fleet. Ore will be crushed and agglomerated before placement on an adjacent heap leach pad for leaching. As of December 31, 1999 the Company had spent $19.9 million on acquisition, mine development and plant and equipment at San Martin. An additional $24.5 million is expected to be spent during 2000 to bring the mine into production.
PERMITTING
All environmental and regulatory permits, licenses and authorizations required to carry out planned operations at San Martin have been received.
EXPLORATION
Exploration activities currently consist of rock chip sampling, soil geochemical analysis and geologic mapping to refine target areas for exploration drilling on the property, currently expected to commence in the spring of 2000. Drilling will also take place in an effort to expand the Palo Alto deposit to the southeast and west, where mineralization has previously been discovered.
IMPERIAL PROJECT, CALIFORNIA
PROPERTY
Glamis Imperial Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Glamis Gold Inc. holds 664 unpatented lode claims and 281 millsite claims in eastern Imperial County, California, totaling approximately 11,400 acres. Imperial is planned to be a run-of-mine heap leach project producing upwards of 120,000 ounces per year over a 10 year mine life.
PERMITTING
A feasibility study on the Imperial Project completed in April 1996 showed that the project was financially sound and would provide a positive return on investment. The Company's financial analysis using current gold prices continues to indicate a positive return.
-29-
The Company has been seeking permits for this project for more than five years. Although there is no opposition to the mine on technical grounds, objections by a local Native American tribe that the project would impair historical Native American cultural resources have delayed a decision by the BLM on the Company's permit application.
In light of these objections, the BLM submitted the Imperial Project plan to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation ("ACHP") for a recommendation as to the project's impact on historic resources. In a non-binding recommendation, the ACHP in 1999 concluded that the Imperial Project would significantly impair Native American historic resources and recommended that the BLM deny the project. The BLM is now considering the ACHP recommendation and has advised that it will complete the EIS and issue its decision whether or not to approve the project during 2000.
The Company disputes the factual and legal conclusions contained in the ACHP recommendation. The Company is considering its options and remedies if the BLM does not approve the Imperial Project, including the institution of legal proceedings to protect its investment and property rights.
PLANNED OPERATIONS
At December 31, 1999, approximately $13,644,000 has been expended on acquisition, exploration and development for the Imperial Project. Additional major capital expenditures for the Imperial Project have been postponed until all permits are received. Assuming permits are received and gold prices are acceptable, the Company anticipates spending approximately $50.0 million in initial capital to bring the project into operation. The first gold production is anticipated within twelve months after the final permits are received.
CIENEGUITA PROJECT, CHIHUAHUA, MEXICO
During 1999, 834 ounces of gold were produced at the Cieneguita property compared to 2,823 in 1998 and 1,189 in 1997, but economic production was never achieved.
The Company had not established proven and probable reserves at Cieneguita as of December 31, 1999. A scoping study completed in 1998 indicated a bulk base metal operation was not feasible. A small, near-surface precious metal resource was recognized during this study. Additional analysis in 1999 established this resource to have limited potential, not meeting the Company minimum criteria to move the project towards commercial development.
Consequently, the decision was made to discontinue work on the project and the Company wrote-off the remaining investment. Reclamation of the pilot operation began in July 1999. Mine workings were reclaimed to be safe, drain runoff freely and minimize erosion. The process facility was dismantled, heaps fully detoxified and reclaimed to normal topography.
EXPLORATION
The Company expended $4.0 million on various exploration activities in 1999. Exploration efforts were focused on:
- The Cerro Blanco Property in Guatemala
- The Marigold Mine property in Humbolt County, Nevada
-30-
- The Rand Mine property in Kern County, California
- Various Nevada prospects
- The San Martin Project area in Honduras
- Various Central American prospects
At the Cerro Blanco property in southern Guatemala, the 1999 exploration activity included mapping, sampling, metallurgical testwork and drilling of nearly 6,735 meters of mostly reverse circulation drill holes. Based on all the drilling results to date, a geologic resource has been calculated for the Cerro Blanco deposit. Using a cut-off grade of 0.3 grams per tonne, the geologic resource amounts to 2.6 million ounces of gold at an average grade of 0.96 grams per tonne. Of this total resource, 54% of the gold ounces fall into the measured and indicated category and 46% are inferred. At a 1.0 gram per tonne cut-off grade, the resource is 1.2 million ounces of gold at an average grade of 1.97 grams per tonne, 66% of which is measured and indicated and 34% inferred.
Metallurgical testing indicates that the high-grade portion of the resource will likely require milling to achieve optimum gold recovery. Initial test work indicates 85% gold recovery and 78% silver recovery can be expected with a nominal 150-mesh grind. The lower grade portions may be amenable to dump leaching although at a much-reduced recovery rate. In 2000, the Company plans additional drilling and metallurgical test work in an effort to expand the resource and determine whether to proceed with a feasibility study on the project.
Near the Marigold Mine, the Company drilled 78,130 feet in 126 reverse circulation drill holes within the approximately 28 square mile land-holding area. Additionally, one core hole was completed to a depth of 2,385 feet. Twenty-one miles of geophysical lines were run and consultants completed a structural geological study of the property. The deep hole encountered weak gold mineralization and provided needed geological information about additional target zones. The reverse circulation drilling program added approximately 84,000 ounces of gold to proven and probable reserves. Other reverse circulation drilling encountered ore-grade intercepts worthy of follow-up drilling. Drilling will continue in 2000 in an attempt to both add additional reserves and further explore the large land holding.
Trenching was started in late December about two miles south of the active Rand Mine operations. The trenching is designed to complement information obtained from recent mapping and a ground magnetic geophysical survey in the area. Additional trenching is planned for 2000, and follow-up drilling will be conducted in this area. Drilling in 2000 is also planned in an area about two miles west of the trenching. This drilling will attempt to expand a previously identified resource and will obtain samples of the resource material for metallurgical testing. Additional drilling is planned near old underground workings east of the active Yellow Aster Pit.
Within Nevada , the Company worked on three "grass roots" prospects in 1999. In a central Nevada prospect, seventeen reverse circulation drill holes totaling 8,685 feet were completed. Drilling in 2000 is planned to further evaluate both the high-grade and disseminated targets in the area. In another prospect in northeastern Nevada, mapping and rock chip sampling identified "Carlin-style" gold mineralization. In 2000, limited drilling is planned to test some of the better targets at this prospect. Mapping and sampling commenced on the third prospect in west-central Nevada. Additional mapping and sampling is planned in 2000.
Near the San Martin project site in central Honduras, exploration work consisted of mapping and
-31-
sampling in 1999. In 2000, additional mapping and sampling will be conducted within the Company's land holdings, and prospective areas will be drilled.
Within Central America in general, the Company has exploration concessions or applications for exploration concessions in Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Panama. Over 1,400 meters of core drilling was completed in a prospect in Panama as well as a geophysical program and mapping and sampling. In 2000, the Company plans continued evaluation of these prospects and other prospects in Central America.
ITEM 3