ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
PICACHO MINE, CALIFORNIA PROPERTY AND MATERIAL AGREEMENTS Chemgold, Inc. ("Chemgold"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, holds a leasehold interest (the "Picacho Lease") in 31 contiguous patented mining claims (approximately 600 acres) and 75 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 1,150 acres) located in Imperial County, California, approximately 18 miles northwest of Yuma, Arizona. Access to the property is by gravel road from Yuma. The Picacho Lease is between Chemgold and Picacho Development Corp., a California company. The Company's interest in the patented portion of the mineral claims associated with the Picacho Lease is insured in the amount of $6,000,000 under a title insurance policy.
The Picacho Lease has a term of 20 years from September 24, 1979 and contains a right of renewal for a further 20 years. The lease provides for payment of a royalty of 10% of net smelter returns received by the Company from the sale of products mined from the property, subject to a variable minimum annual royalty of $30,000 based on a London Metal Exchange price for gold of $200 per ounce. The minimum royalty increases or decreases by $1,000 per year for each $5 per ounce change in the price of gold. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 royalty expense under the Picacho Lease amounted to $494,768.
The Picacho Lease may be terminated by Picacho Development Corp. if Chemgold fails to pay the royalty and other sums payable under the lease, or to perform its obligations thereunder or to -21-
perform significant mining work upon the mineral claims which are the subject of the lease for three consecutive years. The Picacho Lease will also terminate if Chemgold files a petition in bankruptcy, if a receiver, trustee or liquidator of Chemgold is appointed, if Chemgold's interest in the Picacho Lease is attached in any proceeding or if the net minimum royalty and earned royalty paid to Picacho Development Corp. does not exceed the minimum royalty payable in each of two consecutive calendar years. Chemgold may terminate the Picacho Lease and all its obligations not yet accrued thereunder on 90 days notice.
PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT AND POWER Equipment use was limited to the month of January 1998, when mining operations ceased. Five 85 ton Haulpak trucks and two CAT 992 loaders remain available. No equipment expenditures were made in 1997 or 1998. $758,000 was expended during the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 to purchase equipment which had been on lease.
Power at the Picacho Mine site is provided by on-site generators.
HISTORY The Picacho Mine was first mined in the late nineteenth century, initially by placer mining methods and later as an underground lode mine. By 1911 when mining activity ceased, underground mining had produced approximately 158,000 ounces of gold from ore averaging 0.25 oz/t gold.
Development work conducted to date by the Company on the Picacho Mine consists of drilling over 900 drill holes, constructing roads connecting the workings, levelling and compacting of 107 acres for leach pads, establishing four major open pits, installing five miles of water lines from the Colorado River to the property and constructing an office, shop, laboratory and processing plant. To December 31, 1998 the Company had expended an aggregate of $23,004,000, net of written-off assets, on acquisition, exploration, development, and equipment at the Picacho Mine and had extracted 379,290 ounces of gold. Proven and probable mineable reserves for the Picacho Mine were exhausted in January 1998.
GEOLOGY The ore at the Picacho Mine was located in a basin of what is thought to be Precambrian gneiss surrounded by Tertiary lava flows and Quaternary gravels. Two types of gold mineralization have been found at the Picacho Mine. The first type of gold mineralization (mined by underground methods in the early years of development of the property) was found in high grade structural zones along or near the contact of the Tertiary volcanics with the Precambrian gneiss. The second type of gold mineralization consists of gold disseminated throughout the altered and structurally complex Precambrian gneiss.
MINING OPERATIONS AND RESERVES Mining at the Picacho Mine was by open-pit methods and ore is processed by the heap leach method. Production by the Company commenced in May of 1980 and to date the four near-surface ore bodies delineated at the Picacho Mine have been mined out. Production during 1997 and 1998 was from the Dulcina Extension ore body.
Proven and probable mineable reserves for the Picacho Mine were exhausted in January 1998, when mining of the last known ore body at the Picacho Mine was completed, on target with life-of-mine projections. -22-
Gold production will continue for another year followed by reclamation of the last remaining heap leach pad and processing facility. Reclamation is expected to be completed by the year 2002, with continued revegetation monitoring thereafter.
PERMITTING The Company has obtained all permits and approvals required to enable it to carry on its mining activities at the Picacho Mine until 65,500,000 tons of ore and waste have been mined. The Conditional Use Permit issued by Imperial County under the California Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975 expires in 2006. The operating permits issued by the California Regional Water Control Board currently allows the processing of ore within one permitted leaching site. No new permits will be required in order to leach the ore which is on the remaining heap leach pad at the Picacho Mine To December 31, 1998, 17,005,450 tons of ore and 40,401,837 tons of waste have been processed. Four completely processed ore heaps have been leached out and neutralized to California State requirements and reclamation of these sites completed. It is expected that leaching of the fifth ore heap located on the property, will be completed during 2000 after which all operations, other than reclamation, at the Picacho Mine will be terminated.
PRODUCTION Certain key operating statistics for the Picacho Mine are set forth in the following table:
PICACHO MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
(1) Ratio of waste mined to ore mined.
(2) Cash cost of production includes mining, processing and direct mine overhead costs while royalties, selling, general and administrative costs and depreciation and depletion are excluded.
GLAMIS RAND MINING COMPANY
PROPERTY AND MATERIAL AGREEMENTS Glamis Rand Mining Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operates the Rand Mine which is comprised of 3 primary ore bodies: the Yellow Aster Pit, the Baltic Pit and the Lamont Pit and three leach pads and related processing facilities: the Yellow Aster Facilities, the Baltic Facilities and the Rand Facilities. In addition, the Rand Mine has reprocessed some old mine dump material located between the Yellow Aster Pit and the old Descarga Deposit.
The Rand Mine is located in the northeast end of the Rand Mountains in Kern County, California, approximately 100 miles northeast of Los Angeles. Highway 395 passes one-half mile east of the property and a branch line of the Southern Pacific Railroad passes seven miles to the north of the property. -23-
The operations at the Rand Mine are conducted on property consisting of a total of 135 patented mining claims and 530 unpatented lode and placer mining claims. Of these, Rand owns all or a portion of 42 of the patented and 383 of the unpatented mining claims. The balance of the patented and unpatented mining claims are held under lease. Rand has deeded over tortoise compensation property totaling 640 acres to the State. This included three parcels near Barstow, California and two parcels near Kramer Junction, California.
Rand holds a lease (the "Yellow Aster Lease") in respect of the patented and certain of the unpatented mining claims covering the Yellow Aster Pit and the Descarga Deposit. The Yellow Aster Lease was acquired from the War Eagle Joint Venture on August 10, 1984 for aggregate consideration of $6,450,000. Rand's interest in the patented portion of the mining claims comprising the Yellow Aster Mine is insured in the amount of $10,000,000 under a title insurance policy.
Under the Yellow Aster Lease, Rand is required to pay to Yellow Aster Mining and Milling Company, a Nevada Company, a production royalty of 6% of net proceeds less certain costs from the sale of ore produced from the mining claims. The minimum monthly royalty payment required by this agreement is $4,000. The Yellow Aster Lease will continue for as long as the royalty is paid.
The Rand Mine has several other leases on lode and placer claims with terms up to twenty years. Leases are subject to renewal or purchase at the discretion of the Company. These leases normally have advance minimum royalties as well as a net smelter return royalty. These leases have no significant minimum required payments, and the royalties average 1.5%. (Refer to Note 5(a)(ii) of the financial statements.) During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, royalty expense at the Rand Mine amounted to $1,534,573.
PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT AND POWER The mining fleet consists of five 190 ton haulage trucks, two 27 cubic yard hydraulic shovels, two drills, two large bulldozers, and one motor grader. There were no equipment expenditures at the Rand mine during 1998. All equipment is maintained to industry standards in an attempt to achieve the maximum number of available hours of use from the equipment.
Rand draws power from Southern California Edison, a California utilities corporation.
HISTORY According to the records of the U.S. Bureau of Mines, there was production from certain parts of the Rand Mine from underground and open-pit mining operations during the period 1897 to 1963, during which 597,000 ounces of gold and 155,000 ounces of silver were produced from 4,227,600 tons of ore mined. In addition, from 1938 to the closing of the mine in the early 1940's, reprocessing of the mine dumps and tailings produced 46,698 ounces of gold and 16,381 ounces of silver from 2,217,607 tons of material. -24-
Rand commenced production on the mineral claims associated with the Yellow Aster Lease in January of 1987. As at December 31, 1998, the Company had expended an aggregate of $83,850,000, net of written-off assets, on acquisition, exploration, development and equipment at the Rand Mine and had extracted 624,524 ounces of gold.
GEOLOGY The mining rights associated with the Yellow Aster Lease initially consisted primarily of three mineable deposits: the Yellow Aster deposit, ("Yellow Aster Pit"), the Descarga deposit ("Descarga Deposit") and the initial Lamont deposit, ("Initial Lamont Deposit").
The ore located in the Yellow Aster Pit is contained in fractured Precambrian schists and Mesozoic intrusives. This ore lies between a series of east-west striking, north dipping faults; northwest striking, east dipping faults on the east, and a northeast striking, west dipping fault on the west. Between the major faults the ground is severely fractured and the rock is highly to moderately oxidized. Mineralized solutions migrated along these structures and disseminated out into the fractured rock.
The Descarga Deposit consists of mine dump material from earlier operations carried out on the Property. The initial Lamont Deposit has been mined out.
Two ore bodies lie within the bounds of the Baltic Lands: the Baltic deposit ("Baltic Pit") and the Lamont deposit ("Lamont Pit"), which is adjacent to the initial Lamont Deposit. Gold mineralization located in the Baltic Pit is hosted by the Rand Schist and controlled by two intersecting fault structures. The brecciated rock within the structures, the north striking, east dipping Baltic fault and the east striking, north dipping Lamont fault, contains most of the mineralization and controls the depth of mineral oxidation. The primary mineral resource is contained within the oxidized and mixed oxide-nonoxide zones of the deposit.
Gold mineralization located in the Lamont Pit is hosted by the Rand Schist and is controlled by the east striking, north dipping Lamont fault structure and associated shear system. The brecciated rock within this structure contains most of the mineralization and also controls the depth of mineral oxidation. The Lamont structure is affected by several north striking, post mineralization faults that have relocated mineralized blocks along the Lamont structure. The primary mineral resource is contained within the oxidized and mixed oxide-nonoxide zones of the deposit.
MINING OPERATIONS AND RESERVES Mining at the Rand Mine is by open-pit methods and ore is processed by the heap leach method. Production commenced from the Descarga Deposit and Initial Lamont Deposit in January of 1987 utilizing one leach pad and a recovery plant. Processing of material from the Descarga Deposit was suspended in 1989 to concentrate on mining the Initial Lamont Deposit which was mined out by the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990.
Mining from the Yellow Aster Pit started in May of 1990 employing an additional recovery plant and leach pad (the "Yellow Aster Facilities"). The heap leach pad of these facilities reached its maximum capacity in February 1996. The remaining ore from the Yellow Aster Pit will be processed at the Rand Facilities (see "Rand Pad and Process Facilities" below). The Yellow Aster Pit has a projected mine life of 5 years and is expected to operate at a 62% average recovery rate for gold.
-25-
Due to lower gold prices and the associated decrease in proven and probable mineable reserves, as at December 31, 1997, of 476,000 ounces (inclusive of 135,791 ounces that were mined and stacked on the heap leach pads), the Company revised the mine plan which resulted in a reduction in the number of mining shifts during the 1st quarter of 1998.
The Yellow Aster, Lamont, and Baltic pits were completely remodeled in 1998 using oxidation codes from drill logs to make new boundaries for all composited ore intercepts into oxide, mixed or sulfide categories. 337 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 172,081 feet, 331 rotary drill holes totaling 47,021 feet, and four core holes totaling 1480 feet were used to define the reserves of the Yellow Aster Pit. 792 drill holes, including 593 reverse circulation drill holes and 199 air track drill holes, totaling 221,897 feet have been used to define the reserves of the Baltic and Lamont Pits. As at December 31, 1998, using a price of $300 per ounce of gold, the proven and probable mineable reserves at Rand totaled 33,373,000 tons grading 0.021 ounces of gold per ton.
In 1998, five additional reverse circulation holes totaling 4,900 feet were drilled in Burcham Canyon as a dual function exploration/condemnation project. The lack of economic reserves encountered in the Burcham Canyon area provided an advantageous area to dump waste from the Phase II Yellow Aster Butte pre-ore stripping campaign during the fourth quarter of 1998 and into 1999.
PERMITTING All environmental regulatory permits, licences and authorizations required to carry out planned operations at the Rand Mine and to process the proven and probable mineable ore reserves of the Yellow Aster, Baltic and Lamont Pits have been obtained and are in good standing. These permits provide for continued mining from these pits, development of a new Lamont Valley waste rock stockpile and transport of ore from the pits to the newly permitted Rand Facilities. These permits include an approved reclamation plan for all the above facilities.
RAND PAD AND PROCESS FACILITIES (THE "RAND FACILITIES") As at December 31, 1995 all environmental regulatory permits, licences and authorizations necessary for the development of the Rand Pad and Process Facilities had been received. The permits allow for the mining of 60,000,000 tons of additional ore through expansion of operations at the Yellow Aster, Baltic and Lamont Pits and the development of a satellite mine, the development of waste rock stockpile facilities sufficient for the storage of 72,000,000 tons of waste in the West Valley and Lamont Valley, the construction of a 60,000,000 ton capacity heap leach pad and plant in the Lamont Valley and provisions for the installation of the ancillary and infrastructure services required by these facilities. The permits also allow for an additional 5,000,000 tons of ore to be placed on the Baltic heap leach pad and the construction of a 6,000,000 ton capacity heap leach pad and related processing facility in the area of the Descarga Deposit. These permits limit production levels at the Rand Mine to a life- of-mine average amounting to 18,250,000 total tons per year.
The permits include certification of the Environmental Impact Report/Environmental Impact Statement, approval of the Reclamation Plan, approval of the BLM Plan of Operations, issue of the Kern County, California, Conditional Use Permit, approval of the California Regional Water -26-
Quality Control Board Report of Waste Discharge, receipt of the Kern County Air Pollution Control District Authorities to Construct, completion of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Section 7 endangered species consultation, and receipt of the California Department of Fish and Game's Section 2081 endangered species permits and management agreements.
Phase I of the Rand Facilities comprised of heap leach pad and processing facility construction was completed in January, 1996 and the first gold was recovered from these facilities during February 1996. Phase II of the Rand Facilities comprised of expansion of the leach pad construction began in December 1997, and was completed during the second quarter of 1998.
PRODUCTION Certain key operating statistics for the Rand Mine are set forth in the following table:
RAND MINE PRODUCTION RESULTS
(1) Ratio of waste mined to ore mined.
(2) Cash cost of production includes mining, processing and direct mine overhead costs while royalties, selling, general and administrative costs and depreciation and depletion are excluded.
CIENEGUITA PROJECT, MEXICO, MEXICO
MATERIAL AGREEMENTS In May 1995, the Company and Aquiline Resources, Inc. ("Aquiline") entered into a joint venture agreement for the further development of the Cieneguita Property to bring it into production. James R. Billingsley, a director of the Company, was a director of Aquiline up to July, 1996.
In July, 1998 the Company completed the purchase of Aquiline's 40%interest in the project for by paying $318,750 in cash, canceling $307,611 of debt due from Aquiline to the Company, and issuing 25,000 shares of the Company's common stock to Aquiline at a price of $4.25 per share. (Refer to Note 5(c) of the financial statements.)
GEOLOGY The Cieneguita deposit lies in the Sierra Madre Occidental structural Arch and Tertiary Volcanic province, which stretches from the Mexican-U.S. border south to the transverse neovolcanic belt of Central Mexico. The oldest rocks in the area are the basement Cretaceous clastic and calcareous sediments. These are overlain by the lower volcanic series which averages 1 km in thickness and is mainly composed of andesitic lavas and pyroclastics of Palaeocene-early Eocene age. The -27-
unconformity overlying the upper volcanic series also averages 1 km in thickness and mainly consists of massive silicic ignumbrites of Oligocene-Miocene age.
The deposit is located in the flat lying andesites and andesitic agglomerates of the lower volcanic series. The agglomeratic rocks form a more porous host than the andesites and, in that sense, the mineralization is somewhat stratigraphically controlled. The main controlling structure, however, trends at 60 degrees and appears to be vertical thus cross-cutting stratigraphy. The rocks within the deposit have been intensely altered to a suite of sericite, kaolin, jarosite and goethite with variable but minor amounts of silicification. Oxidized mineralization forms an outcropping blanket from approximately 6 feet to 60 feet thick.
The alteration and mineralization on the property is well defined along a zone 1,000 m. long by 200 m. wide. The deposit is cut off at the east end by a fault trending at 150 degrees and is lost at the west end in areas of overburden.
PRODUCTION The property is a small, open-pit heap leach mine. A contract was arranged with a management group from Hermosillo to use the existing facilities and production began on a small scale in November 1995. The first dore produced from the property was poured in November 1995.
The Company's credited share of production for 1998 was 2,823 ounces of gold. As at December 31, 1998, the Company's carrying value of the Cieneguita project was $1,265,000.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES To December 31, 1998, 6,700 metres of diamond drilling has been carried out on the Cieneguita property which has delineated an auriferous zone 1,000 metres long and 200 metres wide, which outcrops.
A grid was established on the property and 180 samples were collected from pits spaced 20 meters by 40 meters. Results returned an average grade of 0.052 ounces of gold per ton. Column leach tests were conducted on various sizes and types of ore taken from the surface pits. An 8,000 tonne bulk heap leach test was carried out which indicated recoveries of approximately 70% for gold and 6% for silver. During mining it was found that the ore is exceedingly friable in some places while in other places it appears to require agglomeration prior to leaching.
The Company has not established proven and probable reserves at Cieneguita as of December 31, 1998. The mineralization has all been categorized as "resource", pending additional work planned in 1999.
OTHER LANDS
IMPERIAL PROJECT, CALIFORNIA MATERIAL AGREEMENTS Pursuant to a Joint Venture Agreement dated November 24, 1987, GGX, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, held a 65% interest and Imperial Gold Corporation ("Imperial Gold"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arizona Star Resources Corp., held a 35% interest in 567 unpatented mining claims (the "Imperial County Claims") covering approximately 10,800 acres in eastern -28-
Imperial County, California. Pursuant to a purchase agreement dated February 18, 1994, GGX acquired Imperial Gold's 35% interest in the Imperial County Claims by paying $1,000,000 in cash, assigning to Imperial Gold its 15% share interest in Idaho Gold Corporation, which had a book value of $917,000 and providing Imperial Gold a 1.5% net smelter return interest in the Imperial County Claims. The Company has since expanded its land position at the Imperial Project to 579 claims covering approximately 10,630 acres. During fiscal 1997, a title opinion was issued on the claims encompassing the project showing the Company has valid claim to the land covering the Imperial Project. During 1998, a subsidiary, Glamis Imperial Corporation was formed to be the operating company for the Imperial Project. During 1998, Glamis Imperial Corporation revised its land position within the Imperial Project. Areas that had been previously determined to be non-mineral in character were converted to millsite claims. Additionally, the lode claims within the project area were re-staked to insure maximum coverage of the mineralized area. The claim group now totals 664 unpatented lode claims and 285 millsite claims. To December 31, 1998, approximately $20,027,000 has been expended on acquisition, exploration and development and deposits on equipment for the Imperial Project.
GEOLOGY The Imperial Project lies to the north and west of the Picacho Mine and south and east of Newmont Gold's Mesquite Mine.
The geology of the Imperial Project consists of Mesozoic age gneissic and schist units unconformably overlain by Tertiary basalts and Quaternary gravels. The basal gneissic units are the upper part of a deeper Chocolate Mountain thrust system which moved northeastward over the Orocopia Schist. The immediate project area is structurally characterized as a northwest trending thrust sheet of gneissic rocks cut by a network of curved faults (flower structures). The gneissic units are in part thrust over the footwall metamorphic and sedimentary units. Northwest trending high angle step faults displace mineralization to the south and truncate the deposit to the east and west.
Major structural features appear to have acted as conduits, forming the geologic setting for Imperial Project mineralization. Mineralization occurs primarily in thick quartz-biotite gneissic and sericitic units. The basic rock-ore types are biotite gneiss and sericite gneiss with gradational schistose sequences. The biotite gneiss package occurs across the entire project area while sericite rich units are more prevalent in the eastern portion of the deposit.
Primary gold mineralization occurs within hematitic and limonitic altered breccias, microfractures and gouge zones developed in the host biotite and sericite ore types. Minor quartz veining, very fine grained pyrite pseudomorphs and silicified zones are also common.
Density of fractures, extent of the red-brown to yellow hematitic/limonitic coatings and pyrite pseudomorphs within the host units are notable mineralized features. Logging of core and cuttings from the project site indicate no fresh pyrite or sulfide mineralization is present due to the oxidized state exhibited throughout the deposit.
Sporadic mineralization is also noted along the gravel and volcanic contact and in fault structures through the brecciated volcanic units. Low grade mineralization also occurs within the overlying gravels as thin layers eroded from exposed mineralized gneissic units. -29-
RESERVES Approximately 185,750 feet of reverse circulation and 4,240 feet of core drilling have been completed over several areas on the Imperial Project. Additionally, exploration programs completed to December 31, 1998 consist of geologic mapping and geochemical and geophysical surveys. Drilling, geological interpretation and mine evaluation studies have resulted in the delineation of proven and probable mineable ore reserves for the Imperial Project of 79,088,000 tons of proven reserves grading 0.016 ounces per ton and 13,361,000 tons of probable reserves grading 0.014 ounces of gold per ton, having a combined stripping ratio of 2.49:1, as at December 31, 1998. Reserves were determined within the pit outlines, using a 73% recovery rate, a cut-off grade of 0.007 ounces of gold per ton and a gold price of $300 per ounce.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES A final feasibility study completed on the Imperial Project in April 1996 showed that the project was financially sound and would provide a positive return on investment. On May 2, 1996, the Board of Directors approved the project and directed the Company to proceed with permitting, detailed engineering and procurement.
On November 28, 1997 the Second Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Imperial Project was published in the Federal Register. The comment period for this draft ended April 13, 1998. Following the end of the comment period, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Imperial County began working on responses to the comments received on the draft EIS. While Imperial County has completed its review and responses to comments, the BLM continues its review which is now expected in the second quarter of 1999. Following completion of responses to comments, the final EIS is expected to be available for public comment during the second quarter of 1999. A Record of Decision (ROD) is expected in late 1999 although a delay by the BLM in responding, or legal opposition from special interest groups could delay the ROD beyond that date.
On November 2, 1998 the area surrounding, and including, the Imperial Project was "segregated" from mineral entry for the protection of cultural artifacts, subject to valid existing rights. Following this segregation, the BLM began the process of examining the validity of the mining claims within the Imperial Project. This Validity Exam is not expected to be complete prior to the issuance of a record of decision on the environmental impact statement, but the Company believes all rights to minerals are properly filed and documented and the Validity Exam will conclude favorably to the Company.
Major capital expenditures for the Imperial Project have been postponed until all permits are received and the price of gold improves. Assuming permits are received and gold prices are acceptable, the Company anticipates spending $42.0 million in initial capital to bring the project into operation. Initial gold production is anticipated within twelve months after the final permits are received.
SAN MARTIN PROJECT, HONDURAS ACQUISITION AND DESCRIPTION The San Martin project was acquired in October 1998 as part of the acquisition of Mar-West Resources, Ltd. -30-
The property consists of one exploration concession acquired on December 8, 1995 by a Mar-West subsidiary. The concession encompasses 14,100 hectares. The property is located in central Honduras in the Departamento of Francisco Morazan. Access to the property is provided on good paved and gravel roads.
GEOLOGY The oldest rocks identified on the property to date are Paleozoic metasediments of the Cacaguapa Group. This unit contains garnet schist, feldspar augen schist, quartz-muscovite schist, phyllites, and rare marble and metagranite. Metamorphic grades range from greenschist to epidote-amphibolite facies.
Several bodies of porphyritic dacite and tonalite intrude and locally overlie the schists. The intrusives are elongated on an east-west trend. Based on intrusive and unconformable relationships with older stratified rocks, the intrusives are thought to be early Tertiary. Irregular exposures of felsic tuff and ignimbrite are correlated with the Miocene Padre Miguel Group. Asymmetrical block faulting closely follows placement of the dacite-tonalite porphyries. The dominant-structural feature on the San Martin Property is the northwest trending Siria Graben, which coincides with the location and trend of the Minas de Oro metalogenic belt. Several east-trending structures including the Arenal Fault are also present. A complex series of structural fabrics are visible on an outcrop scale, and more work is required to understand the structure.
RESERVES In 1995 Mar-West acquired the ground following the identification of anomalous gold values in stream sediments and subsequently completed trenching, geophysics, geochemistry, and geological mapping. In 1997, exploration focused on the possibility of hot springs style gold mineralization at the Hot Springs Zone (also known as the Sinter Zone). Trenching and subsequent reverse circulation drilling was completed. All 73 reverse circulation drill holes completed May-June, 1997 intersected anomalous to ore-grade gold values averaging .038 to .048 ounces per tonne in a veneer of highly altered schist closely paralleling the topographic surface of the Hot Springs dome. The veneer has an average true thickness of approximately 20 meters and had been intersected in all drill holes completed over an area of 500 x 700 meters.
Since its discovery, the Sinter Zone (Hot Springs Zone) has been renamed the Rosa Deposit. The Rosa Deposit sits on a south facing hillside directly above an active hot springs known locally as Fuente Termal. Over 180 diamond and reverse circulation drillholes have been drilled. This drilling has defined a completely oxidized resource containing significant gold mineralization. As of December 31, 1998, using a gold price of $300 per ounce, the Rosa Deposit has proven mineable reserves of 23,039,500 tons grading 0.029 and a stripping ratio of 0.18:1.
Near the end of 1998, a metallurgical program was undertaken to determine the amenability of the Rosa Deposit to treatment by run-of-mine heap leaching. To date, eleven large diameter column tests, as well as over one hundred bottle roll tests have been conducted on both run-of-mine and crushed material. This testwork has indicated that the material is amenable to run-of-mine heap leaching with an anticipated recovery of 65% with very low cyanide and lime consumption. -31-
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES In 1998, a series of holes were drilled in a zone of alteration located on a hillside just north of the Palo Ralo dome. This drilling intercepted mineralization in a blanket formation similar to Rosa. Following the initial drilling, a new program was undertaken in late 1998 to follow up on delineating the resource. By the end of 1998, over 60 reverse circulation and core holes had been drilled on this resource defining an oxidized zone. Drilling on this resource is continuing in order to define the known boundary of the resource to ensure adequate space is defined for both engineering and permitting work.
During 1998 baseline environmental studies were carried out on the entire San Martin area. These studies were performed with the intent of providing detailed, timely information for the Environmental Impact Report to be written in 1999. Engineering work to date includes a detailed mine model for the Rosa Deposit, a preliminary leach pad design, detailed metallurgical testing, preliminary equipment selection and facilities design. Additional land acquisition and work on social programs in the local community have been priorities. The Company plans on applying for exploitation concessions during the first half of 1999, and complete a feasibility study on the project by July 1999 with a plan for beginning construction in November 1999. Current scheduling shows production of approximately 60-65,000 ounces of gold per year for approximately ten years at a cash cost of under $150 per ounce. Because the plan calls for run-of- mine leaching, capital costs are expected to be low, approximately $18 million for a total cost of under $200 per ounce.
EXPLORATION
Aside from the work performed by Mar-West subsidiaries, the Company carried out a limited exploration program during 1998. No significant findings resulted from that work.
A subsidiary of Mar-West had exploration programs on-going in Guatemala and other areas of Central America. In Guatemala, Mar-West received an Exploration Concession for a 3,900 hectare area know as Juptiapa II. Contained within this area is the Cerro Blanco prospect. Mar-West began a thorough study of Cerro Blano utilizing geological, geochemical and geophysical techniques. This detailed mapping led to several interesting target zones where reverse circulation drilling was done in 1997. The initial drilling located a very interesting zone of intense gold mineralization. In late 1998, a geophysical survey was conducted on the areas of interest at Cerro Blanco which was used as the basis for an additional drill program. The drilling program consists of both reverse circulation and core drillholes and was designed to test the geophysical anomalies as well as follow up on the 1997 drilling results. Results from this program are not yet complete.
ITEM 3