ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The following scientific and technical disclosures about the Mt Todd gold project and the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project have been reviewed and approved by Mr. John W. Rozelle, Senior Vice President of Vista. Mr. Rozelle is a qualified person as defined by NI 43-101.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: This section and other sections of this annual report on Form 10-K contain the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources,” “inferred mineral resources,” “proven mineral reserves,” and “probable mineral reserves” as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. Please note the following regarding these terms:
·
“Measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” - we advise U.S. investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
·
“Inferred mineral resources” - we advise U.S. investors that although this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic, technical and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or pre-feasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
·
“Proven mineral reserves” and “probable mineral reserves” - The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, our disclosures of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC.
Please see “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” for further discussion on the differences between terms under NI 43-101 and SEC Industry Guide 7.
Cautionary Note To All Investors Concerning Economic Assessments That Include Mineral Resources: Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves have no demonstrated economic viability.
Units of measurement are reported by the qualified person in compiling reports on a project vary by country, Imperial units for properties in the U.S. and metric units for properties outside the U.S. We use the units of measurement as reported by the qualified persons in their respective reports, regardless of property location, in order to correspond to those units as reported by the qualified persons.
Mt Todd Gold Project, Northern Territory, Australia
Property Description and Location
In 2006, we acquired the concession rights to the Mt Todd gold project from the Deed Administrators for Pegasus Gold Australia Pty Ltd. (“Pegasus”), NT Government and the Jawoyn Association Aboriginal Corporation (“JAAC”). In 2014, the agreement was extended through the end of 2018. Mt Todd was an operating mine in the late 1990’s, but the project had been closed due to bankruptcy and was held by these organizations. The failure of the project was primarily a result of inefficiencies in the comminution circuit, poor gold recoveries and low gold prices. We hold the Mt Todd gold project through our wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold Australia Pty. Ltd. (“Vista Gold Australia”).
Gold mineralization in the Batman deposit at the project occurs in sheeted veins within silicified greywackes/shales/siltstones. The Batman deposit strikes north-northeast and dips steeply to the east. Higher grade zones of the deposit plunge to the south. The core zone is approximately 200-250 meters wide and 1.6 km long, with several hanging wall structures providing additional width to the orebody. Mineralization is open at depth as well as along strike, although the intensity of mineralization weakens to the north and south along strike.
The Mt Todd gold project is designed to be a conventional, large open-pit mining operation that will utilize large-scale mining equipment in a drill/blast/load/haul operation. Ore is planned to be processed in a large comminution circuit consisting of a gyratory crusher, two cone crushers, two High Pressure Grinding Roll (“HPGR”) crushers, and three ball mills as discussed in greater detail below. Vista plans to recover gold in a conventional carbon-in-leach (“CIL”) recovery circuit.
The Mt Todd gold project site was not reclaimed when the mine closed in the late 1990’s. Liability for the reclamation of the environmental conditions existing prior to Vista’s involvement with the project remains the responsibility of the NT Government until 30 days after we have provided notice to the NT Government that we intend to take over and assume the management operation and rehabilitation of the Mt Todd gold project. Vista will not give such notice until a production decision has been made, the project is fully permitted to construct the mine, and the necessary financing for construction has been arranged.
The Mt Todd gold project is located 56 kilometers by road northwest of Katherine, NT, Australia, and approximately 250 kilometers southeast of Darwin. Access is by existing paved public roads and approximately four kilometers of paved private road. We control and maintain the private paved road.
The area has a sub-tropical climate with a distinct wet season and dry season. The area receives most of its rainfall between the months of January and March. Temperatures are moderate, allowing for year-round mining operations. Topography is relatively flat. The tenements encompass a variety of habitats forming part of the northern Savannah woodland region, which is characterized by eucalypt woodland with tropical grass understories. Surface elevations are approximately 130 to 160 meters above sea level in the area of the previous and planned plant site and waste dump.
Total land holdings controlled by Vista Gold Australia are approximately 140,000 hectares. A map showing the location of the mineral licenses (“MLs”) and exploration licenses (“ELs”) and a table with a list of MLs and ELS and the holding requirements follows. Substantially all of the estimated mineral resources at Mt Todd are located in the Batman pit.
Mt Todd Land Holdings of Vista Gold Australia
The surface land in the area of the contiguous MLs and ELs (excluding EL28321) is freehold land owned by the JAAC. Because the JAAC have title to the land, such land is not part of the lands classified by the government as indigenous lands, and as a result such lands are not subject to an Indigenous Land Use Agreement. Vista has a private agreement with the JAAC for the use of and access to the land.
In the terms of our agreement with the JAAC, we must offer the JAAC the opportunity to establish a joint venture with Vista holding 90% and the JAAC holding a 10% participating interest in the Mt Todd gold project. In addition, the JAAC will be entitled to an annual cash payment, or payment in kind, equal to 1% of the value of the annual gold production from the current MLs, and a 1% NSR royalty on other metals, subject to a minimum payment of A$50 per year.
We are required annually to submit a Mine Management Plan that details work to be done on the property. We have received approval for all work done on the project to date. Further permitting will be required to continue exploration and development, and an environmental impact statement will be required before mine development can start. The related permitting processes are relatively straight-forward and are not expected to impede to a material extent our exploration and future development plans. Any future mining will require an approved closure plan and sufficient surety bonding to fund that closure.
Following the bankruptcy of the previous operator in the 1990’s, most of the processing equipment and facilities were removed from the site; but some basic infrastructure which may not be of any use in the proposed project is still in place, including project access control point, a small shop and office, the flotation plant building, and various concrete slabs and floors, as well as a fully functioning tailings impoundment facility that has capacity to store additional mill tailings, and a fresh water storage reservoir. In addition, a medium voltage power line supplies the site with electrical power, and a natural gas pipeline, used for power generation by the former operators, is still in place. The Mt Todd gold project is located sufficiently close to the city of Katherine and the town of Pine Creek to allow for an easy commute for workers.
Because the Mt Todd gold project site was not reclaimed when the mine closed, the dumps and heap leach pad require ongoing care and maintenance, which we provide. Precipitation on the waste dumps and heap leach pad have resulted in acid rock drainage which
is controlled to the extent possible through collection in retention ponds, storage, pH adjustment and controlled release of acidic or treated water into the Edith River when water levels are high enough, in accordance with the waste discharge license.
Water Treatment
We completed the installation of a lime silo and slaker for water treatment in 2009. The treated water was initially stored in the existing tailings impoundment facility, but the above average rainfall experienced in the 2010-2011 wet season raised the level of water in the tailings impoundment facility which resulted in the suspension of water treatment. In 2011, we started pumping water from the tailings impoundment facility into the Batman pit. Following extensive chemical and toxicological testwork, in 2012 we received authorization from the NT Government to in situ treat the water stored in the Batman Pit to neutralize the acidity and to precipitate the contained metals. In February 2013, we received a waste discharge license from the NT Government that authorizes the release of treated water from the Mt Todd gold project site during the wet season. We will have to dewater substantially all of the pit before mining operations can be started.
The NT Government has committed to non-recourse funding for the first year of a proposed multi-year program with the objective of reducing the inventory of acidic metalliferous water at the Mt Todd site by 70%. The scope of the initial program to be funded by the NT Government between December 2014 and approximately the end of July 2015 includes additional water treatment followed by the discharge of remediated water in accordance with the applicable permits and evaluations designed to aid in the definition of the scope of work for subsequent years’ programs.
Geology, Mineralization, and Exploration
The Mt Todd gold project is situated within the southeastern portion of the Early Proterozoic Pine Creek Geosyncline. Meta-sediments, granitoids, basic intrusives, acid and intermediate volcanic rocks occur within this geological province. Within the Mt Todd region, the oldest outcropping rocks are assigned to the Burrell Creek Formation. These rocks consist primarily of interbedded greywackes, siltstones, and shales of turbidite affinity, which are interspersed with the minor volcanics. The Burrell Creek Formation is overlain by interbedded greywackes, mudstones, tuffs, minor conglomerates, mafic to intermediate volcanics and banded ironstone of the Tollis Formation. The Burrell Creek Formation and Tollis Formation comprise the Finniss River Group. The Finniss River Group strata have been folded about northerly trending fold axes. The folds are closed to open style and have moderately westerly dipping axial planes with some sections being overturned. A later north-south compression event resulted in east-west trending open style upright D2 folds. The Finniss River Group has been regionally metamorphosed to lower green schist facies. Late and Post Orogenic granite intrusions of the Cullen Batholith occurred from 1789 Ma to 1730 Ma, and brought about local contact metamorphism to hornblende hornfels facies.
The Batman pit geology consists of a sequence of hornfelsed interbedded greywackes and shales with minor thin beds of felsic tuff. Bedding consistently strikes at 325 degrees, dipping 40 degrees to 60 degrees to the southwest. Northerly trending sheeted quartz sulfide veins and joints striking at 0 degrees to 20 degrees and dipping 60 degrees to the east are the major controls for mineralization in the Batman pit. The veins are 1 to 100 millimeters in thickness with an average thickness of around 8 to 10 millimeters and occur in sheets with up to 20 veins per horizontal meter. These sheeted veins are the main source of gold mineralization in the Batman pit. In general, the Batman pit extends 2,200 meters in length by 365 to 450 meters in true width and has been drill tested to a depth of 800 meters down-dip. The deposit is open along strike and at depth.
The mineralization within the Batman pit is directly related to the intensity of the north-south trending quartz sulfide veining. The lithological units impact on the orientation and intensity of mineralization. Sulfide minerals associated with the gold mineralization are pyrite, pyrrhotite and lesser amounts of chalcopyrite, bismuthinite and arsenopyrite. Galena and sphalerite are also present, but appear to be post-gold mineralization, and are related to calcite veining in the bedding plains and the east-west trending faults and joints. Two main styles of mineralization have been identified in the Batman pit. These are the north-south trending vein mineralization and bedding parallel mineralization.
Based on our review of the historic project files, we believe that approximately 24.6 million tonnes grading 1.06 grams gold per tonne and containing 826,000 ounces of gold were extracted between 1996 and the termination of mining in 2000. Processing was by a combination of heap leach production from oxide ore and cyanidation of sulfide ore. The remaining mineralization consists of sulfide mineralization lying below and along strike of the existing open pit, and in hanging wall structures parallel to the main zone in the existing open pit.
Preliminary Feasibility Study, May 2013
In May 2013, we completed a pre-feasibility study (the “PFS”) at our Mt Todd gold project in NT, Australia pursuant to NI 43-101. The technical report was filed on SEDAR on June 28, 2013, and furnished on EDGAR on July 5, 2013, and is entitled “NI 43-101 Technical Report - Mt Todd Gold Project 50,000 tpd Preliminary Feasibility Study - Northern Territory, Australia” and was issued on June 28, 2013 with an effective date of May 29, 2013.
The PFS evaluates two development scenarios including a 50,000 tpd project that develops more of the Mt Todd resource (the “Base Case”) and generates a larger Net Present Value (“NPV”) and a smaller and higher-grade 33,000 tpd project that focuses on maximizing return and operating margins (the “Alternate Case”).
Highlights of the 50,000 tpd Base Case include:
·
estimated measured and indicated categories of 7.40 million ounces of gold (280 million tons at 0.82 g Au/t) and estimated proven and probable reserves of 5.90 million ounces of gold (223 million tonnes at 0.82 g Au/t) at a cut-off grade of 0.40 g Au/t (1);
·
average annual production of 369,850 ounces of gold per year over the mine life, including average annual production of 481,316 ounces of gold per year during the first five years of operations;
·
life of mine average cash costs of $773 per ounce, including average cash costs of $662 per ounce during the first five years of operations;
·
a 13 year operating life;
·
after-tax NPV5% of $591.3 million and internal rate of return of 15.9% at $1,450 per ounce gold prices, increasing to $876.6 million and 21.1%, respectively, at $1,600 per ounce gold prices; and
·
initial capital requirements of $1,046 million.
Highlights of the 33,000 tpd Alternate Case include:
·
estimated proven and probable reserves of 3.56 million ounces of gold (124 million tonnes at 0.90 g Au/t) at a cut-off grade of 0.45 g Au/t(1);
·
average annual production of 262,826 ounces of gold per year over the mine life, including average annual production of 294,502 ounces of gold per year during the first five years of operations;
·
life of mine average cash costs of $684 per ounce, including average cash costs of $676 per ounce during the first five years of operations;
·
an 11 year operating life;
·
after-tax NPV5% of $440.2 million and internal rate of return of 16.9% at $1,450 per ounce gold prices, increasing to $615.6 million and 21.4%, respectively, at $1,600 per ounce gold prices; and
·
Initial capital requirements of $761 million.
(1)
Cautionary note to U.S. investors: Proven and probable reserves are estimated in accordance with NI 43-101 and do not constitute SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant reserves see the section heading “Cautionary Note to United States Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Base Case Scenario Presented in PFS
Highlights of the PFS Base Case scenario are presented in the table below:
The following table provides additional details of the Mt Todd gold project’s Base Case economics at variable gold price and Australian dollar assumptions:
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
Base Case key capital expenditures for initial and sustaining capital requirements are identified in the following table:
The following table presents a breakdown of Base Case operating costs. The project includes a 76MW gas-fired power plant in the initial capital. The Base Case project consumes all power generated during the operating life. Self-generated power creates significant savings in operating costs compared to a grid-sourced power solution. During the four years of reclamation and closure, the PFS assumes we will continue to generate power and will sell that power into the NT electrical grid, for which there is a known market and indicative purchase rates have been provided by the government-owned utility.
The 50,000 tpd Base Case mine plan contains plan contains 209.5 million tonnes of material mined from the Batman open pit plus 13.4 million tonnes of material from the existing heap leach pad that is processed through the mill at the end of the mine life. Together, 222.8 million tonnes of material containing 5.901 million ounces of gold at an average grade of 0.82 g Au/t are processed over the 13 year operating life. Total gold recovered is expected to be 4.808 million ounces. Average annual gold production over the life of mine is 369,850 ounces, averaging 481,316 ounces during the first five years of operations, with 580,472 ounces produced in the first year of operations. Commercial production would begin following two years of construction and commissioning.
The following table highlights the Base Case production schedule:
The table below illustrates the updated reserve and resource estimate for the Project. The effective date of the Batman deposit resource estimate is March 18, 2013. The effective date of the heap leach resource estimate is May 29, 2013.
Cautionary note to U.S. investors: Proven and probable reserves are estimated in accordance with NI 43-101 and do not constitute SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant reserves see the section heading “Cautionary Note to United States Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Alternative Case Scenario Presented in PFS
The key differences between the Base Case and the alternative case include:
·
a 33,000 tpd processing facility versus a 50,000 tpd facility in the Base Case with associated lower mining rates and a smaller fleet; and
·
an ultimate pit design based on a reserve pit shell of $925/oz versus $1,360/oz in the Base Case and the application of a higher cut-off grade (0.45g Au/t versus 0.40g Au/t).
Highlights of the PFS alternative case scenario are presented in the table below:
The following table provides additional details of the project’s alternative case economics at variable gold price and Australian dollar assumptions:
Alternate Case key capital expenditures for initial and sustaining capital requirement are identified in the table below:
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding. The negative value in the sustaining capital category of the owners' cost line is the recapture of the cash component of the project's cash reclamation bond, which is spend as cash under the Mine Closure category.
The following table presents a breakdown of Alternate Case operating costs. The Alternate Case project includes a 58MW gas-fired power plant in initial capital. During the operating life, the power plant generates excess power and Vista has assumed a power credit against operating costs. Additionally, during the four years of reclamation and closure, Vista intends to generate and sell power into the NT electrical grid, for which there is a known market and indicative purchase rates have been provided by the government-owned utility.
The 33,000 tpd Alternate Case mine plan contains 110.4 million tonnes of material mined from the Batman open pit plus 13.4 million tonnes of material from the existing heap leach pad that is processed through the mill at the end of the mine life. Together, 123.7 million tonnes of material containing 3.562 million ounces of gold at an average grade of 0.90 g Au/t are processed over the 11 year operating life. Total gold recovered is expected to be 2.891 million ounces. Average annual gold production over the life of mine is 262,826 ounces, averaging 294,502 ounces during the first five years of operations, with 417,166 ounces produced in the first year of operations. Commercial production would begin following two years of construction and commissioning.
The table below highlights the Alternate Case production schedule:
Metallurgy, Processing and Infrastructure
Our metallurgic test work programs support: (1) ore hardness estimates at the Batman deposit that are consistent and do not change at depth; (2) the selection of HPGR technology as part of the comminution circuit; (3) estimated gold recovery rates based on optimized
grind size and leach conditions; and (4) the processing of material from the historic heap leach pad at the end of the proposed mine life.
Ore Hardness
Samples used for the test work program were sourced from eight holes from the Company's 2010 and 2011 drilling program that were oriented to intersect the main Batman deposit beneath the existing pit and are believed to be representative of the material within the limits of the preliminary feasibility pit.
Twenty of the samples were subjected to Bond ball mill work index (“BWi”) tests, the SMC Test (drop-weight and specific gravity tests) as well as Compressive Strength Tests and Crushing Work Index tests. The results of the BWi tests show an average BWi value of 26.2 kWh/t with a maximum value of 28.2 kWh/t and a minimum value of 23.6 kWh/t.
The results of this test work support two main conclusions: (1) that the hardness of ore at the Batman deposit is relatively constant; and (2) that ore at the Batman deposit does not change at depth.
This test work validates the Company’s prior test work and supports Vista's comminution circuit design, which is designed to crush and grind material with an average BWi of 27.4 kWh/t, a 5% factor of safety above the average BWi and closer to the 75th percentile of BWi test results.
HPGR Selection
Our proposed comminution circuit incorporates the use of a large gyratory crusher and two large cone crushers for the primary and secondary stages, respectively, and contemplates the use of HPGRs as the third-stage of the crushing circuit. Much of our test work has focused on evaluating and confirming the use of HPGRs.
Initially, we ran a series of parallel tests comparing a semi-autogenous grinding (“SAG”)/ball mill circuit with an HPGR crushing and ball mill circuit. Based on the test work completed, HPGR technology was selected. Industry experience has shown HPGRs to produce micro-fracturing in particles that reduce the overall particle strength and generate a greater distribution of fine material in the ball mill feed, reducing downstream ball mill energy requirements. The material at the Batman deposit consists of silicified greywackes/shales/siltstones and test work has shown the HPGRs tend to fracture material at the Batman deposit along the bedding planes more than micro-fracturing. The result, however, is consistent with other industry HPGR applications in that the HPGR product produces a lower BWi feed for the ball mills. The test results indicate the SAG mill circuit produced a product with an average BWi of 26.4 kWh/t compared to the HPGR crushed product with an average BWi of 24.8 kWh/t, a reduction of over 6%.
Additionally, material crushed in the HPGR test resulted in approximately 10% of the HPGR product being fine enough to by-pass the ball mills entirely and proceed straight to the leach circuit. Vista has incorporated this HPGR advantage in its comminution circuit design.
The test work also assessed the difference in power requirements between a primary/SAG/ball mill circuit, a conventional 3-stage crush/ball mill circuit, and a 3-stage HPGR/ball mill circuit to generate a 90 μm P80 product. The assessment concluded that the 3-stage HPGR/ball mill circuit has a significantly lower specific energy requirement than the primary/SAG/ball mill option and that a finer grind size can be achieved with the HPGR crushed material compared to conventionally crushed material ground for the same period of time.
This test work also confirms our prior test work and supports our comminution circuit design. The use of HPGRs is anticipated to (a) produce a product that can be ground more efficiently (lower BWi) in the ball mills; and (b) reduce energy requirements when compared to a SAG mill design.
Gold Recoveries
Our focus was to solve the high reagent consumption, poor gold recovery and copper leaching issues encountered by previous operators. Historic core samples indicated the presence of cyanide soluble secondary copper mineralization (chalcocite and bornite) in material at the Batman deposit, and as such, our initial focus was to develop a flowsheet that incorporated the production of a copper concentrate.
However our drill programs from 2007-2012 indicated a significant change in the mineralogy of material at the Batman deposit with depth with copper mineralogy changing from cyanide soluble secondary copper to non-cyanide soluble primary copper mineralization (chalcopyrite). The change in mineralogy occurs at approximately 40 meters below the existing surface and the majority of the ore containing cyanide soluble secondary copper was mined by previous operators. As a result, more than 96% of material at the Batman deposit contains low-to-non-cyanide soluble primary copper mineralization. Therefore, our recovery circuit has been simplified and focuses only on recovering gold from material at the Batman deposit through a conventional Carbon in Leach (“CIL”) circuit.
The remainder of our test work relating to gold recovery focused on optimal grind size, pre-conditioning of ore with lime (to reduce cyanide consumption), the identification of a reagent to suppress copper leaching (lead nitrate was selected), and optimal cyanide concentration.
After determining the optimal leach conditions, 99 samples covering a range of head grades from throughout the Batman deposit were subjected to leach tests resulting in gold extraction between 75% and 85%, with an average of 81.7%, net of solution losses. Cyanide consumption was estimated at 0.77kg/t and lime consumption was estimated at 0.91kg/t.
This test work validates our prior recovery estimates (82%), indicates minimal gold recovery variability throughout the Batman deposit, and supports Vista's recovery plant design utilizing a conventional, industry-proven, CIL circuit.
Existing Heap Leach Pad
In addition to analysis of freshly-mined material from the Batman deposit, Vista has analyzed the potential to incorporate nearly 13.4 million tonnes of material on the existing heap leach pad into the Mt Todd gold project. The original Mt Todd gold project started as a heap leach operation with historic records indicating that the average grade of material placed on the pad was 0.96 g Au/t. Although the material was partially leached in the mid-1990s, Vista has drilled 24 air-rotary holes into the heap leach pad and assayed 361 samples, and created a 3D resource model that has an average grade of 0.54 g Au/t.
Initial evaluation efforts focused on re-starting the heap leach pad. Bottle roll and column tests were completed, both of which supported the leachability of the material with gold recovery rates around 35%. However, poor in situ permeability rates caused Vista to ultimately abandon plans to re-start the heap.
We subsequently submitted two heap leach variability composites and two drill hole composites from the leach pad for CIL cyanidation leach test work. The samples were ground to P80 passing 90 μm and pre-treated with lime and 100g/t of lead nitrate to suppress copper leaching. The material was then leached for 24 hours. These results support recovery rates of 70% for this material when processed through the CIL plant.
Infrastructure
Because the Mt Todd gold project was an operating mine, infrastructure exists that reduces initial capital expenditure and significantly reduces capital risk related to infrastructure construction, which has been a major source of capital overruns in the mining industry over the last decade. Existing mining infrastructure items include:
·
an existing tailings storage facility that will receive two raises and is expected to contain the initial 62 million tonnes of material processed;
·
an existing fresh water storage reservoir that will receive a two-meter dam raise and will harvest stormwater sufficient to provide process water for year-round operations for a 50,000 tpd operation;
·
a natural gas pipeline at site that can supply sufficient natural gas to meet the project's energy requirements and would save considerably on project operating costs compared to grid-supplied power;
·
a paved road to site;
·
current electrical connection to the NT electric grid; and
·
reduced earthworks costs due to the process plant location being the same as the previous process plant, which has already been cleared and graded.
Other benefits of the Mt Todd gold project’s NT location include:
·
the Stuart highway - the main North / South highway in the NT is less than 15km from the project site;
·
rail line parallel to the Stuart highway; and
·
the regional center of Katherine (population approximately 12,000) less than 60 km from site and the NT capital of Darwin less than 300 km from the project site, which has port access.
Permitting
In June 2013, we completed and submitted an initial EIS to the NTEPA for review. This submission started concurrent agency review and public consultation periods, the latter of which completed during August 2013. Following closure of the public consultation and agency review periods, the NTEPA provided a consolidated set of comments to us, which we responded to in a final EIS which was submitted for approval during November 2013. During September 2014, the EIS was approved. In its formal notification to us (the “Assessment Report”), the NTEPA has advised that it has assessed the environmental impacts of the Mt Todd gold mine and concluded that it can proceed, subject to a number of recommendations which are outlined in the Assessment Report.
We have started planning for the submission of the documents for the authorization required under the Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (“EPBC Act”) and for the approval of the mine operating permit (known as the Mine Management Plan or “MMP”). The NTEPA Assessment Report includes 28 recommendations which are to be addressed as part of the MMP. Included in these recommendations are four that relate directly to the Gouldian Finch. We estimate that authorization under the EPBC Act will require 3-4 months from the submission of documents and that approval of the MMP will require approximately 6 months from the submission of the plan. At this time, we intend to undertake studies in the second quarter of 2015 for the EPBC Act authorization. Preparation of the MMP will continue internally and we plan to have it ready to submit when there are signs of a sustained recovery in the gold market.
Exploration Potential
Based on airborne geophysical survey data, we have identified five magnetic targets within our controlled land holdings surrounding the Batman pit. The targets are distinct magnetic highs located within sedimentary rocks that should have a low magnetic signature. These features are similar to those at Mt Todd, which, as a result of the included pyrrhotite, exhibits a strong magnetic high.
Mineralization at the Quigleys deposit is interpreted to occur within a series of mineralized shears that strike north northwest and dip 30 to 35 degrees to the west. The main shear extends for nearly one kilometer along the strike and has been drilled to a vertical depth of 230 meters. The mineral resource estimate has been defined by 632 drill holes drilled by Pegasus and Billiton Australia Gold Pty. Ltd. in the late 1980s through the mid-1990s. Tetra Tech reviewed the integrity of the drill-hole database and developed a computer model to estimate and classify the estimated mineral resources. The model reflected Tetra Tech’s geological interpretation of the deposit, which constrained the mineralization to the shear zones using geological information and assays from 49,178 samples obtained from the drilling. Lower grade, erratic mineralization in the hanging wall of the shears has not been included in the mineral resource estimate.
Sampling and assaying was done under the supervision of prior operators in conjunction with evaluation of the Batman pit and are discussed in the PFS, as part of the overall project sampling and assaying methodology.
Based on Tetra Tech’s resource analysis, at a cut-off grade of 0.50 g Au/t, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Quigleys deposit is estimated at 6,076,000 tonnes grading 0.92 g Au/t.
Under CIM Definition Standards, at the same cut-off grade of 0.50 g Au/t, measured mineral resources are estimated at 511,000 tonnes grading 1.04 g Au/t, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 5,565,000 tonnes grading 0.91 g Au/t and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 9,416,000 tonnes grading 0.95 g Au/t. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: see the section heading “Cautionary Note to United States Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
2015 Project Plans
The focus of our activities at the Mt Todd gold project in 2015 will be principally on identifying and evaluating project optimization opportunities and care and maintenance activities related to the MLs and ELs. The current gold price does not justify the development of the project at this time, nor the completion of the feasibility study.
No exploration is planned on the MLs and only minimal field mapping is planned for the ELs. Additional programs within these areas may be considered subject to available funding,
We remain positioned, subject to a sustained improvement in gold prices, to move forward quickly with the completion of the Mt Todd gold project feasibility study. We estimate that the feasibility study could be completed within four to six months and at a cost of approximately $2,500.
The Mt Todd gold project is without known mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the proposed program at Mt Todd is exploratory in nature.
Guadalupe de los Reyes Gold/Silver Project, Sinaloa, Mexico
During January 2014, we announced that we signed a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to option our interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project in Sinaloa, Mexico (the “Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project”) to Cangold Limited (“Cangold”).
The LOI provided that a non-refundable $50 payment be made during January 2014 to Vista for which Cangold was given a 90 day period of exclusivity (the “Exclusivity Period”) to complete due diligence and negotiate and enter into a definitive option agreement with Vista (the “Option Agreement”).
During April 2014, Minera Gold Stake S.A. de C.V. (“MGS”), Vista’s wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into the Option Agreement to option its interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project to Cangold.
Pursuant to the terms of the Option Agreement, Vista has granted Cangold the right to earn a 70% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project by:
·
making payments totaling $5,000 in five payments over a three-year period, with payments totaling $1,000 in the first year (comprised of $500 received in 2014 and $500 received in February 2015 (postponed from January 2015)), $1,500 in the second year and $2,500 in the third year;
·
operating the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project maintaining the concessions comprising the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project in good standing; and
·
fulfilling all of the obligations of MGS to the Ejido La Tasajera (the ”Ejido”) as set out in the temporary occupation contract between MGS and the Ejido.
The Option Agreement provides that all cash payments are non-refundable and optional to Cangold, and in the event Cangold fails to pay any of the required amounts on the scheduled dates or fails to comply with its other obligations, the Option Agreement will terminate and Cangold will have no interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project. Provided it is not in breach of the Option Agreement, Cangold may at its discretion advance the above payment schedule and exercise the initial option for a 70% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project any time during the three-year period.
Subject to Cangold earning a 70% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project, MGS has granted Cangold the option to earn the remaining 30% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project, by notifying MGS of a production decision no later than the tenth anniversary of exercising the first option and by making a cash payment to Vista of $3,000 plus an additional cash payment based on a formula that includes the growth, if any, in estimated NI 43-101 compliant Measured and Indicated mineral resources of the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project, and the then prevailing spot gold price (“Escalator Payment”).
Should Cangold determine not to put the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project into production, the Option Agreement provides MGS with the right to buy back Cangold’s 70% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project for a cash payment of $5,000 plus the Escalator Payment described above. If MGS does not exercise its buyback option, MGS will still retain a right of first refusal should Cangold elect to sell its 70% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project to a third party.
Property Description and Location
The Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project is located in the State of Sinaloa, near the village of Guadalupe de los Reyes in western Mexico, approximately halfway between the cities of Mazatlan and Culiacan. The project area is accessed by a 30-kilometer dirt road from Cosala, a city of approximately 17,000 inhabitants. The city of Cosala is connected to the cities of Mazatlan and Culiacan by a 55-kilometer paved highway plus 100 kilometers of toll freeway or by small aircraft from a local airstrip to international airports of Durango, Mazatlan and Culiacan.
The project is located in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental at elevations that vary from approximately 300 meters to 1,000 meters. The topography is moderate to rugged. Climate in this area is arid to semi-arid with an average temperature of 22 to 26 degrees Celsius. The average rainfall of approximately 1,000 millimeters occurs mostly during the period of June to September in strong storm events that cause flooding along the river beds and frequent interruptions of the road to Cosala. Moderate to dense vegetation of bushes and shrubs covers the hill slopes within the project area, in a transition zone that changes from the tropical
vegetation towards the lower elevations to that of evergreens and other types of trees at higher topography. Sporadic underground mining of veins in the district occurred from the 1770’s until the 1950’s, resulting in a reported accumulated extraction of approximately 1.1 million tonnes of ore with an average grade of 9.20 gold grams per tonne and 430 silver grams per tonne from the various deposits located within the district. Old, abandoned underground mine workings and relatively small mine-waste dumps exist in the area; no tailings ponds are present, and there are no known environmental liabilities on the project.
The property is held through 37 federal mining concessions totaling about 6,310.9 hectares through our wholly-owned subsidiary MGS. A location map and table of mining concessions follows.
Mining Concessions at Guadalupe de los Reyes
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
To operate within the laws and regulations of Mexico, we must negotiate the use of the land rights before initiating development of any considerable mining operations in the project area. An important consideration is the traditional use of land, which recognizes that mining is the preferred use of the land in and around old mine workings. Most of the surface rights to the Guadalupe de Los Reyes gold/silver project are held by the Ejido.
History
From the middle of the 1950s to the 1980s there was limited activity within the Guadalupe area that included exploration reconnaissance studies and mining concessions promotions. In the early 1990’s, Northern Crown Mines Ltd. (“NCM”) completed a total of 36,278 meters of reverse circulation drilling on the concessions. In 2001, Meridian Gold, Incorporated optioned the project from NCM and completed a due-diligence investigation including sample checks and drilling of 23 additional confirmatory holes totaling 2,732 meters. Meridian dropped the option with NCM in 2002 and NCM subsequently returned all mineral rights to the original concessionaires.
In 2003, we acquired a 100% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project and a data package associated with the project and general area. In 2008, we acquired several concessions adjacent to our Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project. In 2011, we acquired several open fractions within our concession group. This consolidated our ownership of the known mineralization within the Guadalupe de los Reyes district. The Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project is subject to NSR royalties ranging from 0-5%.
Infrastructure
Electrical power is available in the village of Guadalupe de los Reyes, but there may not be sufficient capacity to support a mining operation. A trade-off study between on-site power generation and power capacity upgrades will be part of a future feasibility study. It is anticipated that ground-water wells would supply water for any future mine development. Operations personnel would be sourced from surrounding villages. Transportation of personnel will be addressed in future feasibility studies.
Geology and Mineralization
The Guadalupe de los Reyes district is a low sulfidation epithermal gold/silver system composed of quartz/chalcedony veins, vein stockworks, and breccias hosted within the lower volcanic sequence (“LVS”) of the Sierra Madre Occidental. The LVS is a differentiated section of basalt flows and tuffs that grade upward into andesite tuff. The andesites are overlain by a complex of dacite to rhyodacite flows and tuffs with related dikes, small stocks and flow domes.
The LVS rests unconformable on a Cretaceous granite batholith and is unconformably overlain by the upper volcanic sequence (“UVS”). The UVS is characterized by thick, tabular, rhyolitic ash flow tuffs that form topographic highs and prominent cliffs.
Within the area, there are four major northwesterly and west-northwesterly dilational quartz-filled fault structures with an aggregate strike length of 13.7 kilometers. These structures have displaced the LVS stratigraphy and have been subsequently silicified and infilled with low sulfidation style epithermal gold and silver mineralization. The vein/fault structures have good strike continuity and typically dip from 50 to 70 degrees. Vein widths vary from 2 to 50 meters depending upon the degree of dilation of the fault structure and intensity of silica injection and mineralization. The mineralogy is dominated by several varieties and periods of silicification with attendant calcite and adularia.
Native gold, electrum and acanthite are the primary economic minerals. Sulfide content is very low and typical gold pathfinder elements are only weakly elevated.
Most of the historical underground operations in the district were concentrated along the footwall of the veins where the higher-grade gold and silver values most often occurred. However, the more extensive-brecciated hanging wall sections of these veins that usually host lower grade, dominantly gold-bearing mineralization, were largely ignored. These hanging wall sections in topographically favorable locations are favorable sites to develop bulk tonnage gold/silver deposits.
Preliminary Economic Assessment
In March 2013, we announced the completion of a preliminary economic assessment (“PEA”) for the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project which evaluated the viability of a 1,500 tpd (540,000 tonne per annum) processing facility with positive results.
The PEA was completed by TetraTech MM, Inc. of Golden, Colorado, pursuant to NI 43-101. The PEA was completed by or under the supervision of Edwin C. Lips P.E., Dr. Rex Bryan, Vicki Scharnhorst P.E. and Erik Spiller, each independent Qualified Persons (as defined in NI 43-101). Mr. Lips, Dr. Bryan and Mr. Spiller have reviewed and approved the technical and scientific information contained in the PEA. Previous technical reports contain extensive geologic and technical information related to the deposit, on which
this estimate relies. The last technical report was filed on SEDAR on November 29, 2012 and furnished on EDGAR on December 11, 2012, and is entitled "Technical Report Resource of Guadalupe de los Reyes Gold/Silver Project - Sinaloa, Mexico" and was issued on November 5, 2012.
The PEA is intended to provide only an initial review of the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project's potential and is preliminary in nature. The PEA includes inferred resources that are considered to be too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves, and there is no certainty that the economic results described in the PEA will be realized.
Project Economics
The following table provides details on the Project’s economics at variable gold price assumptions.
Project Concept
The Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project, as currently envisioned, consists of five small open pits within the Guadalupe de los Reyes system, all located within approximately 2.5 km of each other. Conventional open pit methods are recommended for mining the five deposits.
The deposits are typical of a low sulfidation epithermal system with mineralization occurring in westward dipping structural zones that range from a few meters to tens of meters in thickness. The gold occurs as microscopic-sized, free to quartz-encapsulated electrum associated with silver sulfides. Historic metallurgic testwork focused on heap leach recovery methods; however Vista believes that finer grind size through milling could lead to better recoveries. Vista's testwork has focused on gold extraction under a conventional mill and CIL circuit and has resulted in an estimated average gold recovery of 93% and a range of silver recoveries, dependent on the specific deposit tested.
Mill throughput is assumed to be 1,500 tonnes per day or 540,000 tonnes per year. With this assumed production rate, the mine life would be approximately 11 years, with 5.5 million tonnes of material processed. The mine would have an overall strip ratio of 11.7 tonnes of waste rock per tonne of economic mineralized rock. Gold accounts for approximately 80% of the value of the payable metals with silver accounting for the balance.
Mineral Resources
The mineral resource estimates utilized in this PEA are summarized in the table below.
(1)
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: see the section heading “Cautionary Note to United States Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Capital Costs
Capital costs estimates are summarized in the table below.
Operating Costs
Operating cost estimates are summarized in the table below.
Annual Production
The Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project is considered an immaterial project to the Company at this time. The Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project is without known mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold/silver project is exploratory in nature.
Los Cardones Gold Project
During October 2013, we sold our 100% debt and equity participation in the Los Cardones gold project located in Baja California Sur, Mexico to Invecture Group, S.A. de C.V. (“Invecture”) and RPG Structrued Finance S.a.R.L. (together, the “Purchasers”) for a total of $13,000 ($7,000 of which was paid in October 2013 and $6,000 was payable January 2014 (the “Subsequent Payment”) subject to the Purchasers’ option to elect to not make the Subsequent Payment). If the Purchasers elect to not make the Subsequent Payment, we would retain all payments already received and 100% of the Los Cardones gold project would be returned to us. In January 2014, the due date for the Subsequent Payment was extended to July 31, 2014 (the “First Extension”) for additional consideration of $250 payable on July 31, 2014. As a result of permitting delays, we and the Purchasers agreed to an additional extension of the due date of the Subsequent Payment to January 30, 2015 (the “Second Extension”) for additional consideration of $250. The Company received a cash payment of $500 comprising the aggregate consideration for the grant of the First Extension and the Second Extension during August 2014. In October 2014, Invecture announced that the Los Cardones gold project, had been suspended because the conditions for its development were not favorable at that time. Since making this announcement, there have been no apparent significant favorable changes to incentivize Invecture to lift the suspension. In January 2015, we agreed to amend the payment terms (the “Amendment”) of the acquisition of the Los Cardones gold project. Under the Amendment, the Company received a payment of $3,000 cash from the Purchasers as full and final payment for 100% of the Company’s interest in the project.
Long Valley Gold Project, California
We acquired the Long Valley gold project in January 2003. The property consists of 95 contiguous, unpatented mining claims that cover an area of approximately 1,963 acres. The surface rights covering the area of the claims are owned by the U.S. government, and are subject to a surface grazing lease. The project is subject to a 1% NSR royalty.
Because of other priorities, we have no immediate plans for developing the Long Valley gold project, and it is considered an immaterial project to the Company at this time. The Long Valley gold project is without known mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7.
ITEM 3.