ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
OPERATIONS
Detailed information is contained herein with respect to the Hycroft mine (formerly known as the Crofoot/Lewis mine), the Mineral Ridge mine, and the Amayapampa and Capa Circa properties. Vista Gold holds the Hycroft mine through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Vista Gold Holdings Inc., Hycroft Inc. and Hycroft Lewis. The reserves and average grades provided herein for the Hycroft mine have been estimated by the Corporation. Vista Gold holds the Mineral Ridge mine through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Vista Gold Holdings Inc. and Mineral Ridge Inc. Vista Gold holds the Amayapampa and Capa Circa properties through its 100% interest in Sociedad Industrial Yamin Limitada, a Bolivian limited partnership. Estimates of reserves and production herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
HYCROFT MINE
The Hycroft mine and related facilities are located 54 miles (86 kilometres) west of Winnemucca, Nevada. The mine is an open-pit, heap leaching operation which produces gold and by-product silver. The Lewis mine was originally a sulphur mine. In 1983, it commenced operation as a small heap leach
gold mine. The Corporation acquired the Lewis mine in early 1987 and completed construction of the adjacent Crofoot mine project in April 1988. In early 1989, the two mines were consolidated into a single operation under an ore purchase agreement, with ore from both properties processed through the larger and more efficient Crofoot plant. Hycroft Inc. began stripping at the new Brimstone pit, located one mile to the east of the existing Central Fault pit, in April 1996 and commenced construction of a new 3 million square foot leach pad and a 2,800 gallon-per-minute (10,598 litre-per-minute) leach solution processing plant in the summer of the same year. Ore from the Brimstone pit was hauled to the new leach pad beginning in September 1996 and the Brimstone plant commenced operation in February 1997. In 1998, the Hycroft mine produced 112,685 ounces of gold and 235,636 ounces of silver. Mining operations at the Hycroft mine were suspended in December 1998.
Gold production is expected to continue in 1999 and 2000 from gold contained in the heap leach pads. The Corporation will continue to review the economic situation and gold resources to determine whether operations can be restarted. Reclamation will proceed in areas which will not be disturbed by future operations.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The Crofoot and Lewis properties together comprise approximately 9,600 acres (3,885 hectares). The Crofoot property, originally held under two leases, covers approximately 3,600 acres (1,460 hectares). The Lewis property, which virtually surrounds the Crofoot property, is held through a lease which covers approximately 6,000 acres (2,430 hectares). The mine is accessible by road and has access to adequate supplies of water and power. The major mining facilities consist of mobile mining equipment, a three stage crushing and conveying system (currently idle), four leach pads, two Merrill-Crowe gold-silver recovery plants and associated maintenance and support facilities.
GEOLOGY AND HISTORY
The Hycroft mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north trending structures which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the ore body from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock desert. The geological events have created a physical setting ideally suited to the open-pit, heap leach mining operation at the Hycroft mine. The heap leach method is widely used in the southwestern United States and allows the economical treatment of oxidized low-grade ore deposits in large volumes.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles (4.8 kilometres) in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles (2.5 kilometres) in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet (100 metres) in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 990 feet (300 metres) in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization. The determination of whether mineralization can be mined economically is dependent on the grade of mineralization, the depth of overburden and the degree of oxidation.
In 1992, Hycroft Inc. exercised its options to convert its leasehold interests in the Crofoot property into a 100% ownership interest in the patented mining claims, a 100% possessory interest in the unpatented claims and a 100% interest in the incidental rights thereto, all subject to 4% net profits royalties and excluding rights to sulphur. No royalty payments were made in 1995, 1994 and 1993 because minimum royalty payments made prior to 1993 aggregating $2.8 million were available for credit against the royalty obligations. The Crofoot lease/purchase agreement was amended in 1996 to provide for minimum advance royalty payments of $120,000 on January 1 of each year in which mining occurs. An additional $120,000 payment is due if ore production exceeds 5.0 million tons from the Crofoot property in any calendar year. All advance royalty payments are available as credit against the 4% net profits royalty. The aggregate acquisition cost to Hycroft Inc. was $6,881,481 and was financed by the issuance of Common Shares and the assumption of certain debts associated with the Lewis mine. The leasehold interest in the Lewis property extends until January 1, 2013 or for so long thereafter as Hycroft Lewis continues to conduct commercial mining operations on the property.
The Lewis lease provides for the payment to the lessor of a 5% net smelter return royalty on gold production. The royalty increases for ore grades above 0.05 ounce per ton and is offset by annual advance minimum royalties. The Corporation has the right to commingle the ore from the Lewis property with ore from the adjoining Crofoot property under an agreement with the lessor of the Lewis property.
The ore reserves mined in 1998 in the Brimstone deposit, which lies partially on the Crofoot property and partially on the Lewis property, were processed on both the newly constructed Brimstone leach pad and the older Crofoot pad. The allocation of metal produced from the commingled Crofoot and Lewis ores is calculated using methods consistent with industry standards. The same method will be employed during 1999 if gold mining is restarted.
MINING AND PROCESSING
During 1998, Hycroft Inc. excavated a total of 7.1 million tons of ore. For each ton of ore mined, 0.42 tons of waste was excavated. Waste stripping was suspended in January 1998. Ore mining was suspended in December 1998.
Until November 1996, higher grade ore was crushed prior to treatment on the leach pads. From November 1996 to December 1998, all ore was hauled directly to the leach pads without crushing. Dilute alkaline cyanide solution is pumped from a pond to the heap surface and distributed evenly over the crushed and run-of-mine ore through a network of pipes and irrigation sprinklers or drip emitters. The solution percolates down through the layers of ore, preferentially leaching gold and silver from the rock. This pregnant solution, containing dissolved gold and silver, flows along the surface of the impervious leach pad to a collection ditch from which it drains into one of two pregnant solution ponds. The low-grade solutions are recirculated to the heaps to increase the amount of gold in the solution, and the high-grade solution is pumped directly to the recovery plant where the gold and silver are extracted. The process is a zero-discharge closed circuit.
The Crofoot recovery plant can process up to 3,000 gallons (11,355 litres) of solution per minute from leach pads 1, 2, 3 and 5 (18,000 tons of solution per day) and the Brimstone recovery plant can process up to 2,800 gallons-per-minute (10,600 litres-per-minute) of solution from the Brimstone leach pad (also referred to as pad 4). This process includes filtering to remove particulates, de-aeration to remove dissolved oxygen and introduction of small quantities of zinc dust. The dissolved gold and silver precipitate out of the solution onto the zinc particles which are then removed by a second stage of filtration. The barren solution is returned to the leaching circuit. The precipitate is treated to remove
mercury, then mixed with fluxes and smelted to yield a dore bar. Dore bars are shipped offsite for refining and sale. Gold and silver production from the Hycroft mine is refined by Metalor USA Refining Corporation. Alternate refiners are available if necessary.
ORE RESERVES
At January 1, 1999, the Corporation had no ore reserves estimates for the Hycroft mine. This compares to proven and probable reserves at January 1, 1998 of approximately 25.2 million tons grading 0.02 ounces of gold per ton, with 23.4 million tons identified as proven reserves and 1.8 million tons as probable reserves in total containing 515,000 ounces of gold. As of January 1, 1999, the Corporation had estimated, measured and indicated resources in the Brimstone Pit of 15.4 million tons at a grade of 0.0194 ounces of gold per ton (containing 299,000 ounces of gold). These resources are contained in a designed excavation (pit) that would be economic at a price of $350 per ounce. The reduction in ore reserves was due in part to ore mined during 1998 and to some mineralization becoming uneconomic to mine due to a lower gold price.
In 1998, no gold reserves were added to the Hycroft mine. A comparison of estimated reserves actually mined at Brimstone compared to reserves estimated to be present based on exploration results indicated a positive variance of 33%. The Corporation intends to review the reasons for this variance and carry out further exploration drilling to better sample the orebody. If the upgrading is confirmed, it is possible that the Brimstone deposit could contain mineable reserves.
Ore reserves are adjusted annually by the Corporation by the amount extracted in the previous year, by the additions and deletions resulting from new geological information and interpretation and from changes in operating costs and metal prices. Ore reserves are not revised in response to short-term cyclical price variations in metal markets.
OPERATING STATISTICS
Operating statistics for the Hycroft mine for the period 1994 to 1998 were as follows:
- ---------- (1) Ore processed means ore placed on pads but not necessarily leached during the year. (2) Direct cash operating costs which is the sum of mining costs (excluding deferred waste stripping) and processing and mine administration cost, net of silver credits.
Gold production for 1998 was down 4% from 1997. Decreased gold production was due to fewer ore tons being placed on the pads for processing as a result of the reduction of mining activities and subsequent suspension in December 1998. The decrease in ore tons placed on the pads was partially offset by higher average ore grades.
MINE SITE EXPLORATION
In 1998, exploration activity at the Hycroft mine was limited due to depressed metal prices. There is significant potential to extend oxide mineralization to the south, along strike, at both the Central Fault and Brimstone deposits, but the greatest upside lies in the largely unexplored sulfide mineralization below the Brimstone deposit.
Current resources at Brimstone are limited to the oxide cap of an apparently large but previously unexplored gold-bearing sulfide system. Two diamond drill holes, drilled in 1996 and earlier, have intercepted mineralized sulfides averaging 0.023 ounces per ton gold and 0.5 ounces per ton silver over intervals exceeding 500 feet (153 metres) in thickness. Vista Gold intends to investigate this resource when market conditions improve.
MINERAL RIDGE MINE
SUMMARY
On October 21, 1998, the Corporation acquired the Mineral Ridge mine through the purchase of all of the shares of Mineral Ridge Resources Inc. from Cornucopia Resources Ltd. ("Cornucopia") in consideration for 1,562,000 Common Shares of Vista Gold with an aggregate value of $250,000 and Vista Gold having subscribed on a private placement basis for 2,777,777 common shares of Cornucopia with an aggregate value of $250,000. As part of the transaction, Mineral Ridge Inc. amended an existing loan agreement with Dresdner Bank AG ("Dresdner"). The amended agreement revised the terms of repayment of the previously outstanding loan and accrued interest totalling approximately $13.5 million and provided additional loans to Mineral Ridge Inc. totalling $1.6 million which will be used to pay amounts owing to other creditors of Mineral Ridge Inc. The revised agreement required the contribution of $5.0 million of mining equipment to the project by Vista Gold. Net cash flow from the project will be distributed on the basis of 70% to Dresdner and 30% to the Vista Gold after deduction of $800,000 of management fees payable to Vista Gold over the next two years and rescheduled principal payments on the additional loans used to repay other creditors. The interest rate on the loans will be LIBOR plus 2% and the loans, which will not be guaranteed by Vista Gold, will be collateralized by the assets of Mineral Ridge Inc. and the $5 million of mining equipment contributed by Vista Gold. As part of the agreement with Dresdner, Mineral Ridge Inc. liquidated forward gold hedges to provide $3.5 million, which is to be used as working capital and to pay for capital improvements on the project.
Prior to the acquisition of the Mineral Ridge mine by the Corporation, the mine had been shut down since December 1997. The mining operation has been restarted and the processing plant is now undergoing start-up and commissioning. The plant commissioning activities include a number of significant modifications which were identified prior to the acquisition. In addition, a critical ore feeding arrangement, which was identified as inadequate during start-up, was replaced during the month of February 1999.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
The Mineral Ridge property is located near the town of Silver Peak, approximately 35 miles (56 kilometres) southwest of Tonopah, Nevada and covers approximately 3,130 acres (1,267 hectares). The Mineral Ridge mine is an open pit, heap leach mining operation owned by Mineral Ridge Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vista Gold. The mine achieved mechanical completion on May 29, 1997 and poured its first gold on June 24, 1997. Operations at the Mineral Ridge mine consist of open pit mining, four-stage crushing, agglomeration and heap leach extraction of gold using conventional cyanide and carbon adsorption methods. The processing facilities are designed to handle a minimum of 2,700 tons of ore per day over a 350 day operating year. Nine separate mineable gold deposits have been defined on the property with several additional areas of inferred mineralization identified.
LAND STATUS
The land package controlled by Mineral Ridge Inc. consists of a total of 195 claims in four separate parcels of land, covering approximately 3,130 acres (1,267 hectares). The four parcels include the Mineral Ridge minesite, the Valcalda spring deeded land west of the minesite, the Blair townsite and two patented millsites adjacent to the town of Silver Peak.
Mineral Ridge Inc. acquired its interest in the properties through agreements with the underlying land owners, the Mary Mining Company and Benguetcorp USA, Inc.
The Mary Mining Company land covers the Mary and Drinkwater deposits, which make up most of the known reserves on the properties. Mineral Ridge Inc. optioned the Mary properties in April 1993, paying $10,000 for an exploration and due diligence period, and exercised the Lease Option in July 1993 for $200,000. Production royalties based upon a percentage of net smelter returns from production tied to the prevailing gold price, are payable to Mary Mining Company for the properties. The net smelter return for the price of gold under $500 per ounce is 4%. Minimum advance royalty payments totalling $130,000 have been made which will be credited cumulatively against the production royalties. The minimum advance royalties are due on July 15th of each year and total $60,000 annually.
Mineral Ridge Inc. acquired the Oromonte claims block from Benguetcorp USA, Inc., in June 1996 upon payment of $1,200,000. This ground covers the plant facility site and includes the Oromonte pits mined in 1996 and the Brodie, Soleberry and Blue Lite deposits. The only portion of mineable reserve affected by underlying net smelter return royalties (2.5%) for the Benguetcorp properties is in the Brodie pit, on the Soda patented claim.
GEOLOGY
The Mineral Ridge gold deposits are located on the northeast flank of the Silver Peak Mountain Range in south eastern Nevada. The Silver Peak Mountain Range consists of two northwest trending parallel belts of pre-Tertiary sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, which are separated and partially overlain by Tertiary felsic volcanics of the Silver Peak caldera. The southern sedimentary belt is comprised of Cambrian and Ordovician sediments which have been intruded by a Mesozoic to Tertiary granitic pluton. The northern belt, which forms Mineral Ridge, is comprised of a northwest-trending early Tertiary granitic uplift capped by Precambrian metasediments and Tertiary volcanics. The gold deposits of Mineral Ridge are localized along shallow, northeast-dipping faults within the lower Wyman Formation of Precambrian age.
This range is situated within the central Walker Lane structural zone, a region of extensive Late Cenozoic right-lateral wrench-faulting, which separates the Great Basin geomorphic province from the
Sierra Nevada Mountains to the west. The Walker Lane Belt formed in response to the onset of crustal extension in the early Tertiary. The complex structure of the belt includes both high-angle strike-slip faulting and low-angle thrust faulting, with a principle strike direction of northwest trend, along with northeast trending left-lateral secondary structures separating structural blocks along the trend. Other features characteristic of the Walker Lane Belt include areas of large scale extension, detachment faults and metamorphic core complexes. With the onset of extension, magma rose in the crust and numerous shallow intrusions and associated volcanic centers were emplaced of various compositions. Precious and base metal mineral deposits ranging from epithermal to porphyry style formed in the belt, often associated with these late intrusions. The Walker Lane Belt hosts numerous famous mining districts including the Comstock, Yerrington, Rawhide, Candelaria, Tonopah, Goldfield and Silver Peak mining camps.
GEOLOGY AND MINERALIZATION
The Mineral Ridge gold deposits are detachment-fault hosted mesothermal quartz vein and replacement deposits localized on the crest and flanks of an early Tertiary metamorphic core complex. Mineral Ridge is a northwest tending, doubly plunging, antiformal uplift of intermediate to felsic granitic rocks, varying from granodiorite to alaskite; capped by a metamorphic carapace of Precambrian metasediments which host the gold deposits. The core granite exhibits foliation and lineation parallel to the contact with the overlying metasediments, with the deformation extending up to one hundred feet into the upper portion of the intrusive. The Precambrian metasediments are comprised of the Wyman Formation, a sequence of thin-bedded mica schist, calc-silicate rocks and calcite marble after original interlayered limestone and shale paleolith. The Wyman Formation is overlain in low-angle fault contact by the Reed Dolomite, which is in turn covered by Cambrian sediments. The core granite and sediments are cut by several ages of dikes and sills ranging in composition from granite pegmatite to diabase, with the mafic varieties often closely associated with the gold mineralization.
Precious metal mineralization at Mineral Ridge is found in three types of deposits, with the most important styles being lenticular quartz bodies and manto replacements in the Wyman Formation limestone/marble beds. The quartz veins occur within the sheared contact zone between the core granite and Wyman Formation, usually in zones of dilation located on the eastern flank of anticlinal folds and where more brittle beds or intrusive rocks have been fractured and mineralized.
The Mary Limestone, a blue-gray, finely crystalline marble containing boudins and augen of quartz, calcite and granitic to felsic intrusives within intensely folded groundmass, is the host for silicic replacement ore formed adjacent to the veins. Up to 5% disseminated pyrite and lesser galena and sphalerite occurs in the Mary Limestone ore, with replacement of the limestone by silica, chlorite and calcite. The ore bodies can occur as a single lens or as a stack of lenses separated by mylonite and/or intrusive sills, with an aggregate thickness of up to one hundred and forty feet of mineable ore.
The ore zones on Mineral Ridge occur as north-south to north-west trending lenses of mineralization which rake at a shallow angle to the dip of the formations and structural contacts. The most favourable orientation for forming an ore shoot includes the steeply dipping east flank of anticlinal folds and the intersection of north-south strike faults of reverse displacement. The ore zones are cut by east-west to north-east trending high angle post-mineral faults of minor vertical displacement. Individual ore bodies mined underground in the past totalled several tens of thousands of tons at around 0.25 ounces per ton. The average size of open pit deposit on Mineral Ridge is about 450,000 tons at 0.065 ounces per ton. Exploration potential on the Mineral Ridge claims is considered excellent based upon widespread drilling, underground exposures and surface geology. Several targets have been partially tested by widespread drilling, surface sampling and mapping.
HISTORY
The Mineral Ridge mine was constructed by Cornucopia for a cost of approximately $17 million. The project was completed on May 17, 1997 and the first gold was poured on June 20, 1997. However, the project failed to meet commercial production loan tests and was shutdown in December 1997. Vista Gold has completed an in-depth technical review and has undertaken a number of modifications to the facility prior to the restart of operations intended to eliminate the problems experienced by Cornucopia. The improvements include changes to the crushing and agglomeration circuits, the addition of surge capacity to the crushing plant, employment of a coarser crusher product size and the introduction of strong leach solutions during the agglomeration process, all of which Vista Gold believes will improve the rate of recovery of gold.
MINING AND PROCESSING
Vista Gold has moved a portion of its mining fleet, including four 150-ton trucks and a 23 cubic-yard (17.6 cubic-metre) hydraulic shovel, from the Hycroft mine to the Mineral Ridge property. The open-pit operations will require the mining of approximately 4,000 tons of ore and 16,000 tons of waste rock each day. The plant, which uses four-stage crushing and heap leaching is estimated to achieve a metallurgical recovery of 75% on ore at an average grade of 0.06 ounces per ton.
The mine and plant were in production for just one month in 1998. During that time, Mineral Ridge mined 3.44 tons of waste for every ton of ore mined. In 1999 ore will be mined at the rate of 4,000 tons per day and the Corporation expects to mine 3.84 tons of waste for every ton of ore mined.
The process plant consists of a four-stage crushing plant, which reduces the rock size to -1/4 inch (-0.6 centimetre) prior to agglomeration with cyanide solution. The agglomerated ore is then placed in approximately 25 feet (7.6 metres) lifts on a heap leach pad. Leaching is carried out using a dilute alkali cyanide solution which is distributed over the surface of the ore through a network of pipes and drip emitters. The solution percolates down through the layers of ore preferentially leaching gold from the rock. This pregnant solution containing dissolved gold then flows along the surface of the impervious synthetic liner of the leach pad into the pregnant solution pond. From the pond the solution is pumped through a gold recovery plant at a rate of up to 1000 gallons-per-minute (3,785 litres-per-minute). The gold recovery plant consists of five carbon columns where activated coconut-shell charcoal (carbon) adsorbs the dissolved gold from the pregnant solution. Solution exiting the carbon plant flows into a barren pond, pH and cyanide levels are adjusted and the solution is pumped back to the heaps for reuse. This is a closed-circuit process with zero discharge.
Periodically carbon loaded with gold is removed from the columns and the gold is stripped off into a more concentrated solution using a strong, caustic cyanide solution at elevated temperature and pressure. The stripped carbon is reconditioned and returned to the carbon column. The gold-rich strip solution is pumped through electrowinning cells and the gold in solution plates out as metal on stainless steel wool. At regular intervals the wool is removed from the electrowinning cells and the gold is washed off as sludge. The gold sludge is then filtered, dried and melted into dore bars. The dore bars are shipped off site for refining and sale. Gold from the Mineral Ridge mine is refined at Handy & Harman but alternate refineries are available if necessary.
ORE RESERVES
As at December 31, 1998, the Corporation estimates the proven and probable reserves to be 4 million tons at a grade of 0.06 ounces per ton containing 241,000 ounces of gold. The average estimated cash
production costs will be $226 per ounce and production is planned to be between 40,000 to 45,000 ounces in 1999.
OPERATING STATISTICS
Start-up activities at the Mineral Ridge mine were commenced in November 1998. Operating statistics for the Mineral Ridge mine during this initial start-up period (from November 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998) are set out below.
- ---------- (1) Ore crushed means ore introduced to the four-stage crushing circuit and placed on the pads but not necessarily leached during the year. (2) Cash operating costs is composed of all direct mining expenses including inventory changes, refining and transportation costs, less by-product silver credits. (3) The cash operating costs have been omitted because the mine is in the initial start-up phase and accordingly, it is not possible to accurately determine the true cash operating costs.
MINE SITE EXPLORATION
In December 1998, the Corporation started a drilling program designed to add reserves to the project. Thirty reverse-circulation holes totalling 4,750 feet (1,450 metres) were drilled. Seven holes were drilled in the Blue Lite prospect, and 23 holes were drilled in the Mary mine area.
Drilling at Blue Lite showed that mineralization extends to the south, and three holes intersected mineralization greater than cutoff. Further drilling will be completed in 1999 with the intent of adding the Blue Lite area to the current reserve base at Mineral Ridge.
Of 23 holes drilled in the Mary area, 12 intersected mineralization over the current cut-off grade. It is expected that this drilling will add 5,000 to 10,000 ounces to the current Mary resource. After further drilling at the Mary deposit in 1999, a new mineable reserve will be calculated.
AMAYAPAMPA AND CAPA CIRCA PROPERTIES
AMAYAPAMPA PROPERTY
SUMMARY
The Amayapampa property consists of 24 mining concessions covering 1,989 acres (805 hectares) plus an additional 16,803 acres (6,800 hectares) in regional exploration and exploitation concessions. The deposit is approximately 1,970 feet (600 metres) in strike length, 98 to 230 feet (30 to 70 metres) in
width, and extends to over 656 feet (200 metres) in depth. Gold occurs free and associated with sulfides in a structural zone in which quartz veins were emplaced then sheared prior to introduction of sulfides and gold mineralizing solutions. Prior to the Amalgamation, CEM mined the Amayapampa deposit using primarily open-stope methods at a rate of approximately 220 tons of ore per day, and processed the ore in two mills on site. See "Ownership" and "History" below.
In 1998, the Corporation completed a development plan to reopen the Capa Circa underground mine approximately six miles from the Amayapampa site and supply ore to a processing plant which would be built at Amayapampa to treat ores from both properties. The Corporation also began optimizing the feasibility study on the Amayapampa property in late 1998 and completed this work during the first quarter of 1999. Under the optimized feasibility study, nearly 505,000 gold ounces could be produced over the 12-year life, at an average rate of almost 43,000 ounces per year. Gold production from Amayapampa and Capa Circa during the first five years of operations when Capa Circa is in production will average 50,100 ounces per year, and this level of production can be sustained with continued exploration/development success at Capa Circa. The initial capital costs are estimated to be about $26 million, including a 20% contingency, and necessary working capital. Average operating costs are estimated to be $7.89 per tonne of ore for a total cash cost of $157 per gold ounce. At a gold price of $300 per ounce, the project is expected to generate an after-tax internal rate of return of approximately 17%.
Approval of the permit to construct and operate, called the DECLATORIA DE IIMPACTO AMBIENTAL under Article 24 of the Environmental Law, was received on May 6, 1998. This permit was based on a 3,300-tonne-per-day ore processing project, and once financing arrangements are in place, the Corporation will request a modification of the permit to allow operation at the lower production rate.
LOCATION AND ACCESS
The Amayapampa property is located 186 miles (300 kilometres) southeast of La Paz in the Chayanta Municipality, Bustillos Province, Department of Potosi, in southwestern Bolivia (Latitude: 18DEG.34.5"S, Longitude: 66DEG.22.4"W). Access is via 167 miles (268 kilometres) of paved road from La Paz to Machacamarca near Oruro, followed by 62 miles (100 kilometres) of gravel road to Lagunillas, then nine miles (14 kilometres) of dirt road to Amayapampa. Total driving time is about six hours. Charter air service is available to Uncia, 22 miles (35 kilometres) from the project.
The Amayapampa property is situated within the moderately rugged Eastern Cordilleran region of Bolivia with elevations varying from 12,300 to 13,450 feet (3,750 metres to 4,100 metres) above sea level. The area is generally arid with a defined rainy season during the summer months of November through April. There is little or no precipitation during the rest of the year.
OWNERSHIP
On April 28, 1994, Da Capo entered into an agreement with Mr. David Anthony O'Connor of Casilla 11314, La Paz, Bolivia and La Compania Minera Altoro S.R.L. ("Altoro") of Casilla 11314, La Paz, Bolivia, both parties at arm's length to Da Capo, which was amended by agreements dated June 10, 1994 and July 15, 1994 (the "Altoro/O'Connor Agreement"), pursuant to which Mr. O'Connor and Altoro assigned to Da Capo:
(a) Altoro's exclusive right and option to acquire a 51% interest in eight mining concessions that constitute a part of the Amayapampa property (and a further option to acquire an additional 19% interest in such concessions), pursuant to an option agreement dated March 22, 1994 (the
"Amayapampa Option") between Altoro and Raul Garafulic Gutierrez ("R. Garafulic") of Ave. Argentina No. 2057, Casilla 9285, La Paz, Bolivia and Compania Explotadora de Minas S.A. ("CEM", and collectively with R. Garafulic, the "Amayapampa Vendors") of Calle San Salvador 1421, Casilla 4962, La Paz, Bolivia. The Amayapampa Vendors are both parties at arm's length to Da Capo;
(b) Mr. O'Connor's exclusive right and option to acquire the Capa Circa property pursuant to an option agreement dated January 12, 1994 (the "Yamin Option Agreement") between Mr. O'Connor and Yamin. See "Capa Circa Property - Ownership"; and
(c) a 100% interest in the Santa Isabel Property, for which an exploration concession application had been made on behalf of Altoro.
As consideration for the assignment of the above interests, Da Capo issued a total of 1,000,000 Da Capo common shares to Mr. O'Connor between June 30, 1994 and April 16, 1996.
On February 5, 1996, Da Capo exercised the Amayapampa Option and acquired a 51% interest in the eight mining concessions that constitute a part of the Amayapampa property in consideration for: (i) the cancellation of a loan in the amount of $2,425,000 which had been previously made by Da Capo to R. Garafulic on December 22, 1994; and (ii) payment of $75,000 by Da Capo to R. Garafulic between March 22, 1994 and September 22, 1994.
On March 8, 1996, Da Capo entered into an agreement (the "Amayapampa Acquisition Agreement") with the Amayapampa Vendors to acquire the following interests in the Amayapampa property:
(a) R. Garafulic's remaining 24% interest in two mining concessions (the Gran Porvenir and Chayentena concessions) that are part of the Amayapampa property;
(b) R. Garafulic's 49% interest in six mining concessions that are part of the Amayapampa property; and
(c) CEM's 100% interest in 16 mining concessions that are part of the Amayapampa property.
In consideration for these interests, Da Capo:
(a) issued 1,000,000 special warrants (the "Amayapampa Special Warrants"), each exercisable to acquire one Da Capo Common Share without further payment, to a nominee of the Amayapampa Vendors on April 11, 1996; and
(b) made a non-recourse, interest-free loan of $3.24 million (the "Amayapampa Loan") to a nominee of the Amayapampa Vendors on April 11, 1996.
The Amayapampa Loan was secured by an assignment of all proceeds from the sale of any of 1,000,000 Da Capo common shares held by such nominee. The Amayapampa Loan was cancelled on April 29, 1996 upon the sale of such Da Capo common shares and Cdn.$4,355,000 received from the proceeds of such sale on or before May 7, 1996.
After being acquired by the Amayapampa Vendors, the Amayapampa Special Warrants were transferred to third parties at arm's length to Da Capo in transactions exempt from prospectus requirements under the relevant securities legislation.
On August 14, 1996, Da Capo issued 1,000,000 Da Capo common shares without payment of any additional consideration upon the deemed exercise of the Amayapampa Special Warrants.
All of Da Capo's interests in the Amayapampa property were transferred into the name of its subsidiary, Yamin, on April 11, 1996.
Ms. Elizabeth Mirabel, a resident of Bolivia at arm's length to Vista Gold, holds the remaining 25% interest in the Gran Porvenir and Chayentena mining concessions, which constitute 604 hectares of the Amayapampa property. On June 28, 1996, Da Capo and Ms. Mirabel entered into a lease agreement (the "Lease") under which Ms. Mirabel granted a lease for her 25% interest in the two mining concessions in favour of Da Capo for a term of ten years commencing July 10, 1996 and renewable for an additional ten year term. During the first two years of the Lease, Da Capo will pay Ms. Mirabel $7,000 per month, and $10,000 per month for the subsequent eight years.
As a result of the Amalgamation with Da Capo, Vista Gold acquired the Amayapampa property.
A legal dispute in Bolivia in which a Mr. Estanislao Radic brought legal proceedings in the lower penal court in Bolivia against Raul Garufulich, resulted in comments in the Bolivian press questioning the validity of the Corporation's ownership of the Amayapampa property. In May 1998, a judge in the Bolivian penal court found that there was no justifiable case. In June 1998, a judge of the Superior Court of the District of Potosi dismissed the appeal of the case and indicated that there could be no further appeals on the matter in the Bolivian penal courts. The Corporation was, and remains, satisfied that its title to the Amayapampa property is secure.
HISTORY
The Amayapampa district was initially mined on a very small scale by indigenous peoples prior to the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors and small-scale mining continued during the Spanish colonial period into modern times. Prior to the Amalgamation, CEM mined the Amayapampa deposit using primarily open-stope methods at a rate of about 220 tons of ore per day and processed the ore in two mills on site. At that time, the Amayapampa mine was one of the largest producing underground gold mines in Bolivia and consisted of 32 levels of underground development. Upper level, generally oxidized ore was removed via the upper Virtus Adit (13,450 feet/4,100 metres) and trucked to the Porvenir mill, while lower sulfide ore was dropped by ore passes to the 2,790 foot (850-metre) long Virquicocha Adit (13,025 feet/3,970 metres) and taken out by electric locomotives to the Virquicocha mill. At both mills, gold was recovered via amalgam plates and gravity tables. The lower mill included a flotation circuit to upgrade the pyrite concentrate. Approximately 150 people worked at the mine and lived locally at the village of Amayapampa and at other small camps near the mine.
Since the Amalgamation, mining has ceased and the old mills removed as per an agreement with the previous owner. The Corporation has kept the miners employed in exploration, development and socio-economic projects during the period when the feasibility study was being prepared.
GEOLOGY
The Amayapampa property is located along the east flank of a north-south trending regional anticline near the top of the Ordovician sequence. The Amayapampa deposit underlies a north-northwest trending ridge approximately 0.3 miles (0.5 kilometres) east of the town of Amayapampa. The deposit is defined by about 48 diamond drill holes; 96 reverse-circulation drill holes; and 315 underground channel samples totalling 17,585 feet (5,360 metres) from more than 200 accessible cross-cuts in 43 different levels and
sub-levels extending over a vertical distance of 682 feet (208 metres). The deposit is approximately 1,969 feet (600 metres) in strike length, 98 to 230 feet (30 to 70 metres) in width and has an overall dip of the mineralized envelope of 80 to 90 degrees west. The depth extent of continuous mineralization is in excess of 656 feet (200 metres) to about the 12,795 foot (3,900 metre) elevation, although some mineralization is present below this depth.
Da Capo channel, core drill and reverse-circulation drill hole samples were analyzed at Bondar-Clegg Laboratories in Oruro, Bolivia, with check samples analyzed at Chemex Laboratories in Vancouver, British Columbia. Because of the coarse gold particles and concerns about nugget effect, all samples were processed using the Hammer Mill Process (similar to a metallic screen assay). In addition to check assaying, Vista Gold has continued to use Bondar-Clegg and the Hammer Mill Process to analyze its samples, and in addition, has had an on-going check assay program in place for samples generated by Vista Gold's exploration and development program. Approximately 225 random assay pulps were check-assayed by three laboratories (American Assay Laboratory in Reno, Nevada, Cone Geochemical Inc. in Lakewood, Colorado, and Rocky Mountain Geochemical in Salt Lake City, Utah) and compared to original pulp assays with generally good agreement. Approximately 600 reverse-circulation drill hole sample splits from the Da Capo program were assayed and used to verify assays obtained from the original reverse-circulation sample splits. Sample splits are duplicate samples taken at the drill rig at the time of drilling. Sample splits show good correlation with original samples with some dispersion expected for this type of deposit.
Currently, the check assay results are being analyzed and reports being drafted, but initial indications are that assay results are in generally good agreement, with the possible exception of some early channel sample assays. Check assays show that assaying precision meets industry standards.
The host rocks are composed of black shales, sandstones, and siltstones which were weakly metamorphosed to argillites, quartzites, and siltites, respectively. Bedding dips are steep at 60 to 80 degrees west, with the east limb of the anticline being overturned and thus, also dipping steeply west.
The mineralized envelope is best described as a structural zone, within which were emplaced quartz vein sets along a preferential pre-quartz-vein fracture direction and post-quartz-vein faults and shears which were probably the conduits for gold-bearing fluids.
Most faults, shears and fractures are north-northeast to north-northwest trending and steeply dipping, both east and west, at 60 to 90 degrees. Quartz veins predominantly dip east. Locally within the zone of mineralization, are relatively flat, thrust-like faults which have offset quartz veins to a minor extent. These flat faults, commonly west-dipping at 40 to 45 degrees, are not generally mappable outside of the main structural zone which hosts the gold mineralization. A west-dipping, 45 degree fault projects into the pit on the northeast side of the deposit and was intersected by two vertical, geotechnical core holes. The base of mineralization may also be slightly offset by a similar west-dipping, 45 degree fault.
Oxidation effects are pervasive from the surface to depths of 66 to 98 feet (20 to 30 metres), with only partial oxidization below those depths. Hydrothermal alteration effects evident in fresh rock are minor, and occur as coarse sericite (muscovite) in thin (0.08 to 0.20 inch/2 to 5 millimetre) selvages along some quartz veins. In addition, chlorite is present in and adjacent to some quartz veins, but this presence may be a product of low grade metamorphism. Alteration effects are minimal overall, except for surface oxidization.
Mineralization is composed of quartz veins and sulfides and both constitute a visual guide to ore. Quartz veins, actually pre-gold, are a locus for later gold mineralization. Quartz veins are typically a few
centimetres to two feet (0.5 metres) in width and commonly occur as sub-parallel vein sets. The strike extent can be 164 to 246 feet (50 to 75 metres) or more for any one vein or vein set, but the dip extent is not as well established and probably ranges up to 66 to 98 feet (20 to 30 metres). Multiple vein sets are present in the overall mineralized envelope and veins commonly pinch and swell along strike and down dip.
Sulfide mineralization entered the multiple fractures to deposit predominantly pyrite within and adjacent to quartz veins, as sulfide veinlets in the host rocks and as clots of coarse sulfides and disseminations of sulfide grains along fractures in the black argillites. Locally, sulfide disseminations are more prevalent in the quartzite/siltite interbeds than in the argillites. The total sulfide concentration for the overall mineralized zone is estimated at 3 to 5%.
Petrographic examination of the sulfide mineralization shows pyrite to dominate at plus 95% of the total sulfides; arsenopyrite is also present, as are minor amounts of chalcopyrite, galena, sphalerite, stibnite and tetrahedrite. Gold is present as free gold in association with pyrite, on fractures within pyrite and attached to the surface of pyrite and is often visible as discrete grains on fractures in quartz and argillite. Gold grains exhibit a large size-range, with much of the gold being relatively coarse at 40 to 180 microns. All gold grains display irregular shapes with large surface areas. No gold was noted to be encapsulated in either quartz or sulfide. The content of gold grains was verified as over 97% gold by scanning-electron-microprobe analysis.
EXPLORATION
In 1998, no exploration was undertaken at Amayapampa.
District-scale exploration potential exists for defining styles of gold mineralization similar to Amayapampa, which could be developed as satellite ore bodies. Specific targets on the Corporation's properties include the drill-inferred, potentially underground mineable, vein mineralization at Capa Circa, an untested surface geochemical target at Irpa Irpa, and raw exploration targets elsewhere within a 10 kilometre radius of Amayapampa.
UPDATED FEASIBILITY STUDY
The Corporation began optimizing the feasibility study on the Amayapampa property in late 1998 and completed this work during the first quarter of 1999. The optimized study projected that nearly 505,000 gold ounces will be produced over the 12-year life, at an average rate of almost 43,000 ounces per year. Gold production from Amayapampa and Capa Circa during the first five years of operations when Capa Circa is in production will average 50,100 ounces per year, and this level of production can be sustained with continued exploration/development success at Capa Circa. The initial capital costs are estimated to be about $26 million, including a 20% contingency, and necessary working capital. Average operating costs are estimated to be $7.89 per tonne ($8.70 per ton) of ore for a total cash cost of $157 per gold ounce. At a gold price of $300 per ounce, the project is expected to generate an after-tax internal rate of return of approximately 17%.
The optimized project has smaller annual production than originally contemplated, but has higher annual production than considered in the revised feasibility study produced by the Corporation in November 1997. The optimized study includes the same flow sheet consisting of a gravity and carbon-in-leach circuit with a projected metallurgical recovery of 85% and operating at a rate of 2,475 tons of ore per day.
Based on a gold price of $300 per ounce, the proven and probable reserves at Amayapampa are calculated to be 10.7 million tons grading 0.051 ounces per ton including dilution, containing 548,000 ounces of gold. Indicated resources at Capa Circa are 187,700 tons grading 0.23 ounces per ton including dilution, containing 46,000 ounces of gold.
The Corporation is investigating means of obtaining finances in order to move the project into design and construction. Approval of the permit to construct and operate, called the DECLATORIA DE IMPACTO AMBIENTAL under Article 24 of the Environmental Law, was received on May 6, 1998. This permit was based on a 3,300-tonne-per-day ore processing project, and once financing arrangements are in place, the corporation will request a modification of the permit to allow operation at the lower production rate.
CAPA CIRCA PROPERTY
SUMMARY
The Capa Circa property consists of four partly overlapping mining concessions covering 289 acres (117 hectares). Until the Amalgamation became effective, the Capa Circa property was mined primarily by open stoping methods at a rate of approximately 22 tons per day. Mineralization on the Capa Circa property is similar to that of the Amayapampa deposit, but consists of discrete veins within a mineralized zone approximately 490 feet (150 metres) wide that can be traced for about 1,970 feet (600 metres) along strike.
LOCATION AND ACCESS
The four overlapping mining concessions that constitute the Capa Circa property cover a total area of 289 acres (117 hectares).
The Capa Circa property is located 186 miles (300 kilometres) southeast of La Paz in Bustillo Province, Department of Potosi, in south-central Bolivia (Latitude: 18DEG. 34.5" S; Longitude: 66DEG. 22.4" W). The Capa Circa property is accessible via gravel road from Oruro to Llallagua/Uncia (68 miles/110 kilometres or approximately 2 1/2 hours) and a dirt road southeast from Uncia to the villages of Lagunillas and Chuqui Uta (approximately 1/2 hour). A short 1.2 mile (two kilometre) spur road leads east to the Capa Circa property from a point approximately 4.3 miles (seven kilometres) south of Lagunillas. A local power line runs along the east side of the Capa Circa property and supplies power to the present Capa Circa mine.
The property is situated within the moderately rugged Eastern Cordilleran region of Bolivia with elevations varying from 12,300 to 13,450 feet (3,750 to 4,100 metres) above sea level. The area is arid with rain falling minimally as thunder showers during the summer months of January to March. Occasional snow is reported during the drier winter months of May to August.
OWNERSHIP
On April 28, 1994, Da Capo was assigned an option to acquire the Capa Circa property pursuant to the Altoro/O'Connor Agreement. See "Amayapampa Property - -Ownership".
Pursuant to the terms of the option agreement (the "Capa Circa Option Agreement") dated January 12, 1994 between Yamin and David Anthony O'Connor ("O'Connor"), which was assigned to Da Capo, Da Capo had the option to acquire all of Yamin's interest in three Bolivian mining concessions (the Santa Rosa, San Mateo and Innocentes concessions) which constitute a part of the Capa Circa property by
making a payment of $4.8 million to Yamin on or before January 12, 1996. During the term of the Capa Circa Option Agreement, Da Capo was also required to pay to Yamin a total of $200,000, as follows:
(a) $50,000 on April 12, 1994; (b) $50,000 on July 12, 1994; (c) $50,000 on January 12, 1995; and (d) $50,000 on July 12, 1995.
All of the above amounts were paid by Da Capo to Yamin and accepted by Yamin. On January 12, 1996, the Capa Circa Option Agreement expired.
Under the terms of a letter agreement (the "Yamin Letter Agreement") dated January 22, 1996 between Da Capo and Boris Yaksic and other members of the Yaksic family (collectively, the "Capa Circa Vendors") of Santa Rosa de Capa Circa, Casilla 3544, Cochabamba, Bolivia, who are all parties at arm's length to Da Capo and who collectively owned a 100% interest in Yamin, Da Capo would acquire a 100% beneficial interest in Yamin in consideration for payment of $500,000 and the issuance of 700,000 Common Shares with a guaranteed value of $1,555,000 to the Capa Circa Vendors on the date of signing a more formal agreement. The Yamin Letter Agreement was formalized by a purchase and sale agreement (the "Yamin Acquisition Agreement") dated as of March 1, 1996 among Da Capo, O'Connor and the Capa Circa Vendors, pursuant to which Da Capo and O'Connor acquired an 80% and 20% interest, respectively, in the shares of Yamin in consideration for payment of $500,000 and the issuance of 700,000 special warrants (the "Capa Circa Special Warrants") with a guaranteed value of $1,555,000. On August 14, 1996, Da Capo issued 700,000 Common Shares for no additional consideration upon the deemed exercise of the Capa Circa Special Warrants. Under the terms of a separate trust agreement (the "Trust Agreement") dated March 1, 1996 between Da Capo and O'Connor, O'Connor held his shares of Yamin as trustee for the benefit of Da Capo, with the result that Da Capo was effectively the beneficial owner of 100% of the shares of Yamin.
Yamin is a Bolivian limited liability company and was, at the time of the Yamin Acquisition Agreement, the sole owner of: (a) a 100% interest in the four mining concessions (the Santa Rosa, San Mateo, Innocentes and Santa Benigna concessions), which comprise the Capa Circa property; (b) the mill, machinery, tools, equipment and vehicles employed in Yamin's small-scale underground gold mining operations on the Capa Circa property; and (c) approximately 16,536 tons (15,000 tonnes) of pyritic tailings located on the Capa Circa property.
The other material terms of the Yamin Acquisition Agreement are as follows:
(a) all machinery, tools, equipment and vehicles owned by Yamin on April 1, 1996 remain the property of Yamin and may be freely used for continuing small-scale underground mining operations at the Capa Circa mine until such time as Da Capo terminates the current operations of the mine to permit the development of a larger mine on the Capa Circa property. At such time, ownership of the machinery, tools, equipment and vehicles will revert to the Capa Circa Vendors, who will have 90 days to remove such machinery, tools, equipment and vehicles from the Capa Circa property;
(b) title to the pyritic tailings located on the Capa Circa property was transferred to the Capa Circa Vendors on April 1, 1996. Upon the termination of current small-scale underground mining operations by Yamin at the Capa Circa mine, the Capa Circa Vendors will be permitted to treat such tailings in the existing concentrator at the Capa Circa Mine until the supply of tailings is
exhausted. Treatment of these tailings will be conducted in such a way that the development of a larger mine on the Capa Circa property will not be adversely affected; and
(c) upon termination of the current small-scale underground mining operations at the Capa Circa mine, the Capa Circa Vendors will pay all severance benefits and indemnities in excess of $300,000 that are required under Bolivian law to be paid to mining personnel employed by Yamin.
As a result of the Amalgamation with Da Capo, Vista Gold acquired the Capa Circa property.
HISTORY
The district in which the Capa Circa property is located was first mined during the colonial period. Small-scale mining continued on until modern times and recently the main deposits have been exploited by mechanized means. The Capa Circa property and mine was purchased in 1938 as an antimony mine by the Yaksic family. Antimony mining continued at the Capa Circa property until approximately 1981 when declining antimony prices and probably declining reserves resulted in a conversion to gold mining.
The previous owners mined the Capa Circa deposit using underground methods at an estimated rate of 20 to 30 tonnes per day until shutdown upon the Amalgamation becoming effective.
GEOLOGY
The Capa Circa geology and mineralization are similar to the Amayapampa property. The Capa Circa property is hosted by Upper Ordovician shales and sandstones on the east limb of a regional anticline. The Capa Circa mineralization is hosted by a series of high angle, east dipping quartz veins in a 429 foot (150 metre) wide envelope. The mineralization is zoned, with antimony mineralization more prevalent in the eastern section. The Capa Circa mineralization is approximately 1,970 feet (600 metres) in length along strike and 820 feet (250 metres) down near-vertical dip. Further exploration may extend the strike length and may find down-dip extensions.
PREVIOUS EXPLORATION
Exploration by the Corporation consisted of surface trenching, underground mapping and channel sampling, and core drilling. Thirteen core holes were drilled in 1995 for a total of 8,022 feet (2,445 metres). The holes were drilled largely with HQ size core and total recovery averaged 93% overall. Several of the holes were drilled from underground locations. Sample intervals were selected geologically, and in some cases were up to 19.7 feet (six metres) in length.
Channel samples were collected from 8,054 feet (2,455 metres) of underground workings representing 20 different levels and sublevels, extending over a vertical distance of 459 feet (140 metres). Channel samples are collected at five metre intervals, with channels four to six inches (10 to 15 centimetres) wide and 0.8 to 1.2 inches (two to three centimetres) deep.
All exploration samples in the Capa Circa database were analyzed at Bondar-Clegg Laboratories in Oruro, Bolivia. Because of the coarse gold particles and concerns about nugget effect, all samples were processed using the Hammer Mill Process (similar to a metallic screen assay).
During 1997, over 1,895 channel samples were taken on drifts and cross-cuts in the Capa Circa mine. The results of these assays, taken with earlier drilling and channel sampling, confirm the presence of
high-grade shoots of mineralization in the lower portions of the mine. The Capa Circa mine has essentially identical geology to Amayapampa, except that the gold bearing veins and structures are more widely spaced. The presence of at least six zones of lower grade mineralization surrounding the veins has been established. These zones are 328 to 492 feet (100 to 150 metres) in strike extent and are 98 to 164 feet (30 to 50 metres) in width, and may represent bulk mining targets.
1998 EXPLORATION
A review of the 1997 Capa Circa sampling program was completed in 1998. The program in 1997 consisted of 1,895 underground channel samples, over a vertical extent of 230 feet (70 metres) and a horizontal extent of 656 feet (200 metres). The program has outlined a resource of 198,000 tonnes (180,000 tonnes), at a grade of 0.23 ounces per tonne (eight grams per tonne) containing 46,000 gold ounces. The resource is hosted by five veins with an average horizontal width of 5.2 feet (1.6 metres), steep easterly dips and a total strike length of 1,394 feet (425 metres).
The resources are from the lowest portions of the mine (San Andres level), an area only recently accessed by traditional miners. The strike lengths of at least three of these vein sets may be extended with further exploration. The dip extent of mineralization for the resource estimate is 330 feet (100 metres) and may extend below that depth.
MINERAL INVENTORY
Sufficient data is lacking to determine a mineral inventory, but the Corporation's preliminary investigations indicated that the mineralization encountered by drilling and underground sampling in Da Capo's explorations program will require extraction by underground mining methods.
EXPLORATION POTENTIAL
At the Capa Circa property, the mineralization is open at depth. Additional potential also exists along strike in the mineralized zone. Significant additional drilling is required to determine a Capa Circa mineral inventory and to test the mineralized zone at depth and along strike.
EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
UNITED STATES
The only exploration performed by the Corporation in the United States was at the Hycroft and Mineral Ridge mines. See "Item 2. Properties - Hycroft Mine - -Mine Site Exploration" and "Item 2. Properties - Mineral Ridge Mine - Mine Site Exploration".
VENEZUELA
In 1998, the Corporation terminated an option agreement with L.B. Mining Co. entered into in 1996 which granted an option to the Corporation to purchase a 100% interest in mining concessions comprising the Guariche gold properties in southeastern Venezuela. The Corporation terminated the option agreement because the economic terms were unacceptable in the current gold market.
BOLIVIA
The Corporation's Bolivian properties include the Amayapampa, Capa Circa, Iroco, Irpa Irpa and Copacabana gold properties.
COPACABANA PROPERTY
This project, located in south-central Bolivia, shows similarities to the Amayapampa property. An initial geochemical survey indicated the possibility of a large deposit. The survey showed a 500 foot (150 metre) by 2,000 foot (600 metre) long soil geochemical anomaly.
After an initial mapping program was completed, a reverse-circulation drill program was conducted. Of the seven holes completed, six had significant gold intercepts. The drilling indicated that the possibility of both bulk tonnage and high grade vein mineralization exists on this property. The best results from drill hole RC3 had 0.41 ounces per ton over 39 feet (12 metres).
A trenching and mapping program is planned for this property, followed by further diamond and reverse-circulation drilling programs. This project is an excellent early stage exploration target with the potential to be another Amayapampa-type deposit.
The Copacabana project was explored with diamond drilling and trenching in 1997. The drilling and trenching were performed along a 2,297 foot (700 metre) strike length of mineralized Ordovician shales. Wide zones of anomalous gold values were intersected in core drilling and trenching, and the property requires more exploration to define its potential. No exploration was performed in 1998.
IRPA IRPA PROPERTY
The Irpa Irpa property is situated three miles south of Capa Circa, with similarities to Amayapampa.
IROCO PROPERTY
The Iroco project is a gold project adjacent to one of Bolivia's largest silver mines at Oruro. The Corporation has an option to earn a 100% interest. Although no resource has been outlined as yet, drill hole results as high as 0.16 ounces per ton over 180 feet (55 metres) have been obtained.
The Iroco project, located three miles (five kilometres) west of Oruro, Bolivia has been farmed out to BHP. BHP has the right to earn a 60% joint venture interest in the property by performing $1 million in exploration by November 1999 and by making a cash payment of $500,000 each to Vista Gold and Compania Minera Altoro by November 2000. BHP conducted exploration on the Iroco project in 1998. BHP completed 7 holes, at wide intervals (250 metres). No significant results were achieved and BHP terminated its option.
ECUADOR
Effective July 8, 1998, Zamora, a corporation in which Vista Gold is a significant shareholder, completed the acquisition of various property interests in Ecuador from Compania Minera Gribipe S.A. ("Gribipe"), an Ecuadorian mineral exploration company. As a condition of the transaction, Zamora issued 39.5 million common shares to Gribipe for the acquisition of the property interests and an additional 7.6 million common shares to Vista Gold in settlement of debts owed to Vista Gold by Zamora. As a result of the transaction, Vista Gold's ownership of Zamora was reduced from 48.7% to 26.5%.
Under the transaction, Zamora acquired:
(a) Gribipe's 48.33% interest in the Mina Real and Mina Real 1 concessions, in which Zamora already held a 50% interest, for 17.0 million common shares at Cdn.$0.20 per share and 1,721,520 common share purchase warrants exercisable at Cdn.$0.20 per warrant; and
(b) Gribipe's 75% interest in the Nambija 1 concession for 22.5 million common shares at Cdn.$0.20 per share and 2,278,480 common share purchase warrants exercisable at Cdn.$0.20 per warrant.
Gribipe and Vista Gold have entered into a shareholders agreement under which they have agreed to vote their shares for a board of directors comprising of three nominees of Gribipe, one nominee of Vista Gold and one independent director.
Vista Gold will also continue to provide management support to Zamora for a period of at least one year under a management services agreement. In addition, Vista Gold has received 7,575,944 common shares of Zamora as consideration for the settlement of debts in the amount of Cdn.$1,515,188.71 owed by Zamora to Vista Gold. As a result of the private placements to Gribipe and Vista Gold, Gribipe owns approximately 57.0% and Vista Gold owns approximately 26.5% of the outstanding common shares of Zamora. The warrants will provide Gribipe with a mechanism to fund further exploration and development of the major properties now under Zamora's control. If the warrants are exercised in full, Gribipe will hold approximately 59.3% and Vista Gold will hold approximately 25.0% of the outstanding common shares of Zamora.
Gribipe is one of the largest mineral exploration companies in Ecuador and has been involved in a number of important exploration projects in Ecuador. Gribipe is now commencing studies to determine the feasibility of a limited mining and processing operation at the Campanillas mine. At Campanillas, Zamora has exercised an option to purchase a modern 150-tonne per day cyanide mill and is undertaking sampling and geologic studies to determine if there is sufficient ore available on Zamora's concessions to justify reactivation of the mill. Zamora now controls over 86,000 acres (35,000 hectares) of concessions in the Nambija region.
At the Campanillas mine, a complete survey of underground workings was completed.
Resampling and mapping of underground workings was completed, comprising 600 channel samples and 800 chip samples. Eighteen core holes were completed for a total of 1,814 feet (553 metres).
Zamora reports a mineable reserve of 13,230 tons at a grade of 0.32 ounces per ton of gold. On the Campanillas concession, mineralization was located in the Katy area, approximately 820 feet (250 metres) north of the Campanillas mines. Three parallel, gold bearing veins are considered to have the potential to contain at least double the current Campanillas reserve. On the Nambija I concession, areas of skarn mineralization have been identified.
The Campanillas mine has been rehabilitated and an overhaul of the crushing plant, ball mill and power generators were completed.
CANADA
The Corporation holds interests in two properties in Canada which continue to be explored by joint venture partners. They are the Manville project in Ontario and the Isle project in Manitoba.
Falconbridge Limited performed initial drill testing on the Manville project and Phelps Dodge Corp. performed initial drill testing on the Isle project.
1998 EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES
In the last two completed financial years, the Corporation incurred expenditures of the following approximate dollar amounts on exploration:
1999 EXPLORATION PLAN
The 1999 exploration program will be limited by the amount of funds that the Corporation can obtain and make available for this purpose, which in turn will be a function of gold price and market conditions. The planned program involves programs at the Hycroft mine and the Mineral Ridge mine in Nevada and the Capa Circa project in Bolivia.
The Corporation's exploration focus in 1999 will be at its two U.S. properties in Nevada. At Mineral Ridge, the Corporation expects to spend $200,000 extending reserves at the Mary deposit and establishing resources or reserves in four areas outlying from current proven and probable reserves. The funds will be expended primarily on reverse-circulation drilling and will comprise 40 to 50 drill holes. A modest surface exploration program will examine three other areas of surface mineralization, in preparation for drilling in 2000.
At Hycroft, the Corporation will expend approximately $200,000 to attempt to upgrade current oxide reserves at the Brimstone deposit. The program will involve diamond drilling and reverse-circulation drilling.
In Bolivia, a small underground exploration program may be attempted in 1999 to upgrade the Capa Circa resource.
ITEM 3.