ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Detailed information is contained herein with respect to the Paredones Amarillos, Mt. Todd, Awak Mas, Yellow Pine, Long Valley, Guadalupe de los Reyes and Amayapampa gold projects. The Corporation holds the Paredones Amarillos and Guadalupe de los Reyes gold projects through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Paredones Amarillos S.A. de C.V.; the Mt. Todd gold project is held through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Vista Gold Australia Pty Ltd., the Awak Mas gold project is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, PT Masmindo Dwi; the Yellow Pine gold project is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Idaho Gold Resources LLC.; and the Long Valley gold project is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold California LLC. The Amayapampa gold project and the Corporation's wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Nueva Vista S.A., were sold to an Australian company in 2008.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: "Part I-Item 2. Properties" and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain the terms "measured mineral resources," "indicated mineral resources," "inferred mineral resources," "proven mineral reserves," and "probable mineral reserves" as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. Please note the following regarding these terms:
•"Measured mineral resources" and "indicated mineral resources"-we advise U.S. investors that while these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
•"Inferred mineral resources"-we advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or prefeasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute "reserves" only as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
•"Proven mineral reserves" and "probable mineral reserves"-The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for "proven reserves" and "probable reserves" as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, Vista Gold's disclosure of mineral reserves herein may not be compatible to information from U.S. companies subject to reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC.
Please see "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" for further discussion on the differences between terms under NI 43-101 and SEC Industry Guide 7.
Paredones Amarillos
Paredones Amarillos is located 35 miles southeast of the city of La Paz, in the Mexican state of Baja California Sur and is accessed by paved and dirt roads. The project area covers about 9,168 acres. A map showing the location of the mining concessions and a table with a list of the mining concessions and the holding requirements follow.
Paredones Amarillos Gold Project Mining Concessions Controlled by Vista Gold
Note: Proof of Labor must be filed on all concessions annually. All concessions are Federal Mining Concessions.
We acquired 100% of the project on August 29, 2002, from Viceroy Resource Corporation ("Viceroy"). To acquire the project, we paid cash of CDN $1.0 million and issued 303,030 equity units comprised of one Common Share and one purchase warrant to purchase one Common Share to Viceroy, and on August 29, 2003, we paid Viceroy the remaining CDN $0.5 million due pursuant to the acquisition contract (see also Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 6).
The Paredones Amarillos gold project has been a significant exploration target since the 1980s. In 1997, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. ("EBM") completed a final feasibility study for an open pit mine on the project. As a result of the subsequent decline in gold prices, start-up was postponed. EBM holds a 2% net profits interest on certain concessions of the project, subject to a cap of $2 million. Additionally, Minera Tepmin, S.A. de C.V., holds a 1% net smelter returns royalty on two concessions.
The project holds environmental authorizations for the purpose of the following: project development including access road, power line, telephone communications, and infrastructure to supply water; construction and operation of a tailings dam; disposal of tailings; construction of a mill; and installation of three pumping stations.
Infrastructure and Access
The project site is currently accessible by government-maintained dirt roads from the north and the west. The project site is currently accessible on existing public roads: paved highway to within 11 miles of the project on the north then by government-maintained dirt roads from the north. There is also a government maintained dirt road from the west. The main access will be from the north. We plan to widen and improve approximately six miles of existing roads from the north and to construct approximately five miles of new road immediately north
of the project. At the present time, the project area is undeveloped with only several sheds used for drill sample storage and the drill access roads constructed during the exploration phase. We maintain an office in the city of La Paz.
High-voltage electrical power will be available from an existing sub-station located approximately 11 miles north of the project area. We intend to construct a new power line from the sub-station to the project. The power line design has been completed and the right-of-way agreements are in place. We intend to use desalinated sea water from the Pacific Coast which is about 16 miles to the west. The length of the pipeline to transport desalinated sea water to the project is dependent on the ultimate route chosen; however 28 miles was used in the 2008 feasibility study. Annual water consumption is estimated to be 370 million gallons.
Geology
General geology consists of diorite roof pendants intruded by a granodiorite batholith with local low and high-angle fault zones. A north-east striking, south-east dipping low-angle silicified fault zone ("cataclasite") is the main host of gold mineralization at Paredones Amarillos. Movement along this structure has been characterized as reverse, resulting from compression. Secondary, high-angle faulting is thought to control the higher-grade mineralization at the project.
The known gold mineralized material occupies an inverted U-shaped block with an approximate strike length of 4,900 feet east-west, a width of approximately 1,600 feet north-south, and a thickness of approximately 100 feet. The apex of the "U" is near the center of the proposed pit with the legs forming the east and west pit lobes.
Definitive Feasibility Study
In August 2007, we announced the start of a definitive feasibility study which was completed in early September 2008 under the direction of our independent consultant, SRK Consulting (US), Inc. ("SRK") of Lakewood, Colorado. The study is titled "Feasibility Study, NI 43-101 Technical Report, Vista Gold Corp., Paredones Amarillos Gold Project, Baja California Sur, Mexico". The final report is dated October 20, 2008, and is available on SEDAR. The technical portions of the study contracted directly by Vista Gold and supervised by SRK were completed by Mine Development Associates (resource/reserve estimates, mine planning and mining capital/operating cost estimates), Resource Development, Inc. (metallurgical testing and review), Golder Associates Inc. (tailings impoundment facility design/construction cost estimates), and SRK (pit slope stability evaluation, closure plan/cost estimates and economic analysis). Dr. Neal Rigby, CENG, MIMMM, PhD, Principal of SRK, an independent Qualified Person as defined by Canadian National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-101"), prepared or supervised the preparation of material on behalf of SRK. Steven Ristorcelli, P. Geo. and Thomas Dyer, P. Eng., both of Mine Development Associates, independent Qualified Persons as defined by NI 43-101, prepared or supervised the preparation of material on behalf of Mine Development Associates.
A new mineral resource estimate (mineralized material estimate under SEC Industry Guide 7) was completed, dated September 5, 2008, by Mine Development Associates under the direction of Mr. Steven Ristorcelli, P. Geo., an independent Qualified Person as defined by NI 43-101, and is part of the feasibility study. The estimate was prepared using industry standard software and estimation methodologies. Of the 438 holes in the data base, 387 holes containing 51,622 samples were used in the resource estimate. Mr. Ristorcelli reviewed available information necessary for the preparation of the resource estimate, including sampling, analytical, drilling and geologic. Following a review of the available documentation pertaining to the sampling programs, the data was deemed sufficiently accurate to use for estimation. However, Mr. Ristorcelli noted that some of the early program's quality assurance and quality control procedures were poorly documented and that an apparent bias may exist between some of the assay values and the check assay values of the same samples. As the original samples were not preserved and cannot be re-assayed, Mr. Ristorcelli has recommended a 12 to 15 hole drill program to confirm the validity of the model that relied on those assays whose check assay bias is unresolved. Mr. Ristorcelli undertook multiple checks to assess the validity of the model and classified the mineral resources into measured, indicated and inferred categories to be in compliance with the NI 43-101 requirement of following "CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions and Guidelines," issued in 2000 and modified with adoption of the "CIM Definition Standards-For Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves" in
2005. Under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material at a cut-off grade of 0.012 gold ounces per ton totals 77,829,000 tons grading 0.027 gold ounces per ton.
Under NI 43-101, using a cutoff grade of 0.012 gold ounces per ton, measured mineral resources are estimated at 10,351,000 tons grading 0.032 gold ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 67,479,000 tons grading 0.026 gold ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 8,481,000 tons grading 0.019 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
Silver occurs in the deposit, but due to the lack of quality assurance and quality control data for the silver assays, a NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate has not been prepared. Metallurgical testing indicates that silver recoveries are variable, but silver production is not included in the study. It cannot be assumed that any silver will be produced from the project.
The metallurgical recovery is estimated to be 91.5% for gold. The mineral reserve estimates prepared and reported by Mine Development Associates, under the supervision of Mr. Dyer, at a gold price of $700 per ounce of gold and cut-off grade of 0.012 gold ounces per ton are summarized in the following table.
Reserves Estimated at Paredones Amarillos
(1)Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of proven and probable reserves: The estimates of mineral reserves shown in this table have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101. The definitions of proven and probable reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, Vista Gold's disclosure of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above. As of January 1, 2009, the rolling three-year average gold price was $723.60, which is slightly higher than the $700 gold price used by Mine Development Associates for the mineral reserves reported in the table above. Therefore, under SEC Industry Guide 7 requirements, we feel the mineral reserves listed above are conservative.
However, should we not be able to obtain the required governmental permits to mine the property, then the project would not have mineral reserves under either or SEC Industry Guide 7.
The proposed pit is oriented approximately east-west and would have two distinct lobes. We plan to extract ore from the mine using conventional open pit mining equipment and techniques. A 100-ton truck and loader fleet has been selected and we would be the owner and operator of the fleet. The higher-grade west lobe would be mined first and a significant portion of the waste rock from the east lobe would be used to backfill the west lobe of the pit. Concurrent reclamation of two waste dumps would be completed during the latter years of the operation.
Estimated life-of-mine average cash production costs are projected to be $419 per ounce, with lower costs of $388 per ounce projected during the first five years of production. Operating costs used diesel prices effective as of May 2008 and energy prices effective as of the first quarter 2008. Pre-production capital costs, including contingency, owner's costs and working capital, are estimated to be $196.7 million or $165 per ounce of gold produced. Total capital costs including replacement and reclamation over the life of the project are estimated to be $191 per ounce of gold produced.
We intend to process the ore in a conventional crushing and grinding circuit consisting of a primary gyratory crusher followed by a semi-autogenous grinding mill and two ball mills with an expected mill ore throughput rate of approximately 11,000 tons per day. The crushing and grinding equipment was acquired from the Colomac Mine and is presently in Edmonton, Canada, waiting shipment to Arizona for repairs and reconditioning. The cost of this equipment was approximately $16 million, with funds provided from our private placement of the Notes, completed in March 2008, for aggregate proceeds of approximately $30 million. The proposed flow sheet indicates that following grinding, the slurried ore will be sized by cyclones and then leached in tanks prior to gold recovery using a Kemix carbon-in-pulp circuit. Gold will be stripped from the carbon and precipitated in an electrowinning cell prior to refining into doré bars. The tailings will be detoxified using ferrous sulfate, paste thickened and deposited in a lined tailings impoundment facility on-site.
Due to the scarcity of surface water and political sensitivities regarding the use of groundwater, we have elected to construct and operate a desalination plant on the Pacific Coast. Water would be pumped approximately 28 miles to the site. Annual water consumption is estimated to be approximately 370 million gallons.
We expect that energy for the project will be supplied by the Comisión Federal de Electrícidad from an existing sub-station located approximately 11 miles north of the project.
It is anticipated that diesel fuel for the project will be provided in bulk quantities by Petroleos de Mexico. Fuel prices in Mexico are subsidized and have not experienced the volatility seen in other locations.
The project is remotely located and is not expected to directly affect any local inhabitants. Our planned access road improvements will benefit the villages of Valle Perdido and El Rosario. We are currently working with the local education and health care authorities and have become a "social partner" with the elementary school in El Rosario. We are unaware of any social issues related to the development of the project.
The base-case economic analysis used a gold price profile with a gold price of $850 per ounce in the first three years of production, decreasing to $725 per ounce for the remainder. Alternative sensitivity analyses were completed at gold prices of $700, $800 and $900 per ounce. The economic analyses were conducted on 100% equity basis with no consideration of debt or leasing. Estimated before and after-tax economic results, showing the internal rate of return (IRR) and net present value at a 5% discount rate ("NPV5"), cumulative cash flow and sensitivity of the base case to changes in gold prices are presented in the following tables.
Before Tax Economic Results
After Tax Economic Results
Schedule
We plan to utilize outside sources to provide the additional project capital and are proceeding to examine various project financing alternatives, including debt and equity components. We expect to complete financing
arrangements and begin construction as soon as the remaining permits are in hand. As noted below, we have already purchased the major mill equipment with funds raised in our March 2008 private placement of the Notes.
Equipment Purchase
On January 7, 2008, we entered into a formal agreement with A.M. King Industries, Inc. ("A.M. King") and Del Norte Company Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of A.M. King, to purchase gold processing equipment to be used at the Paredones Amarillos gold project. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $16.0 million, of which approximately $8.0 million was paid on signing of the asset sale agreement (see Exhibit 10.36 hereto). The remaining $8.0 million was paid in February and March 2008. The purchase price included the cost of relocating the equipment to Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. From this point, we will arrange for reconditioning and transportation of the equipment to the project site. The equipment includes a 11,000 ton per day semi-autogenous (SAG) grinding mill, two ball mills, gyratory crusher and a shorthead cone crusher, along with other related components, spare parts and other process plant equipment.
Land Purchases
On December 5, 2008, we completed a transaction to purchase the land needed for a desalination plant for the Paredones Amarillos gold project. The land is located on the Pacific Coast, approximately 16 miles southwest of the project. The four-acre parcel of land is zoned for industrial use and the Change of Land Use Permit has been received from the Municipality of La Paz for the installation of the desalination plant. On December 23, 2008, we entered into an agreement to purchase approximately 1,236 acres of land at Paredones Amarillos for the mill site and other infrastructure.
Permitting Status
The Paredones Amarillos gold project is located in a special use area within the buffer zone of the Sierra Laguna Biosphere Reserve. The special use area is located adjacent to the northern limit of the buffer zone and has unimpeded access from the north. As previously reported, earlier in 2008 we announced that we received correspondence from the local La Paz office of the SEMARNAT which indicated that staff in that office are of the opinion that the CUSF approved by SEMARNAT in 1997 in relation to the Paredones Amarillos gold project is no longer valid. This permit is necessary for the development of the project to proceed. Our Mexican advisors and counsel in Mexico have advised us that they believe that the permit remains valid. However, our legal counsel advised us that a new Change of Land Use Permit application would be the most expeditious way to obtain the necessary approvals.
Throughout 2008, we have been involved in a steady dialogue with government officials in Baja California Sur and in Mexico City. On August 6, 2008, we filed a request for a TOP for the use of the federal ground in the project area for the life of the project. As announced in press releases dated September 8 and July 2, 2008, we indicated that we had decided to apply for a CUSF. In a November 10, 2008, press release, we indicated we were in final negotiations to purchase the land required for the process plant and tailings impoundment facility and had presented an application for a TOP for the use of the Federal land which overlies the deposit. The land purchase and TOP are necessary pre-requisites for the CUSF application. On December 23, 2008, we reached agreement to purchase approximately 1,236 acres of land for the mill site and other infrastructure. By the end of 2008, we had not received the TOP. Communications that our advisors have had with the office of the General Director of Mines in the Ministry of Economy (the department responsible for awarding the TOP) indicate that the approval process is proceeding normally, but at a slower pace than expected. We have the necessary environmental permit and completed the other prerequisite studies for the submittal of the CUSF permit application and plan to file that permit application as soon as the TOP is received. Additional information is contained in our press releases dated April 30, May 8, May 21, July 2, September 8 and November 10, 2008 and January 12, 2009.
Mt. Todd
Effective March 1, 2006, we and our subsidiary Vista Gold Australia Pty Ltd. ("Vista Australia") entered into agreements with Ferrier Hodgson, the Deed Administrators for Pegasus Gold Australia Pty Ltd. ("Pegasus"), the government of the Northern Territory of Australia and the Jawoyn Association Aboriginal Corporation ("JAAC") and other parties named therein, subject to regulatory approvals, to purchase a 100% interest in the Mt. Todd gold mine (also known as the Yimuyn Manjerr gold mine) in the Northern Territory, Australia. Under these agreements, we are guarantor of the obligations of our subsidiary Vista Australia.
As part of the agreements, we agreed to pay Pegasus, AU$1.0 million ($739,600) and receive a transfer of the mineral leases and certain mine assets; and pay the Northern Territory's costs of management and operation of the Mt. Todd site up to a maximum of approximately AU$375,000 (approximately $277,500) during the first year of the term (initial term is five years, subject to extensions), and assume site management and pay management and operation costs in following years. Additionally, we agreed to issue Common Shares with a value of CDN$1.0 million (amounting to 177,053 Common Shares) to the JAAC as consideration for the JAAC entering into the agreement and for rent for the use of the surface overlying the mineral leases until a decision is reached to begin production. Other agreement terms provide that we will undertake a technical and economic review of the mine and possibly form one or more joint ventures with the JAAC. In June 2006, the transactions contemplated under the agreements were completed and effective, with funds held in escrow released to the ultimate vendors and the Common Shares issued to the JAAC.
In August and September 2007, we obtained several new exploration licenses, located generally to the north of and contiguous to the Mt. Todd mining licenses. Total land holdings controlled by Vista Australia are approximately 397,538 acres. A map showing the location of the mining and exploration licenses and a table with a list of the mining and exploration licenses and the holding requirements follow.
Mt. Todd Land Holdings of Vista Gold
Infrastructure and Access
The project is accessible from Katherine by existing paved public roads and approximately two and a half miles of paved private road. We control and maintain the private paved road.
Mt. Todd was an operating mine in the late 1990s. Although most of the processing equipment and facilities were removed from the site, basic infrastructure items are still in place, including: access control point, small shop and office, mill building, and various concrete slabs and floors. The Batman Pit is partially filled with water that has been pumped from the containment pond downstream of the waste dumps. We will have to dewater the
pit and treat the water for discharge prior to the start of operations. The Mt. Todd site was not reclaimed when the mine closed and as a result, the dumps and heap leach pad require ongoing care and maintenance. Vista Australia provides that care and maintenance, but is not responsible for the environmental liability resulting from previous operations until we take the decision to re-open the mine and have received the appropriate permits. We began installing a water treatment plant in late 2008 and plan to complete the installation late in the first quarter of 2009. The treated water will initially be stored in the existing tailings impoundment facility, but we expect to receive the authorization to allow continual discharge as necessary. The cost of this treatment system is estimated at approximately $430,000, of which approximately $270,000 was spent in 2008, leaving approximately $160,000 that Vista Gold plans on expending in 2009.
A medium voltage power line supplies the site with electrical power. The Mt. Todd gold project generated its own power using natural gas. The natural gas pipeline is still in place. The project has its own fresh water reservoir which is expected to supply all of the project's water needs.
Geology
The Mt. Todd gold project is located approximately 30 miles northwest of Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia. The Mt. Todd gold project is situated within the southeastern portion of the Early Proterozoic Pine Creek Geosyncline. The Batman deposit geology consists of a sequence of hornfelsed interbedded greywackes and shales with minor thin beds of felsic tuff. Bedding consistently strikes at 325o, dipping 40o to 60o to the southwest. Northerly trending sheeted quartz sulfide veins and joints striking at 0o to 20o and dipping 60o to the east are the major controls for mineralization in the Batman deposit. The veins are 0.04 to 4 inches in thickness with an average thickness of around 0.4 inches and occur in sheets with up to six veins per horizontal foot. These sheeted veins are the main source of gold mineralization in the Batman deposit. In general, the Batman deposit is 4,800 to 5,100 feet in length by 1,200 to 1,500 feet in true width and 1,500 to 1,800 feet in known down-dip extension (the deposit is open along strike and at depth).
Based on a review of project files, our management believes that approximately 27.1 million short tons grading 0.031 gold ounces per ton and containing 826,000 ounces of gold were extracted between 1996 and the termination of mining in 2000. Processing was by a combination of heap-leach production from oxide ore and cyanidation of sulfide ore. The remaining mineralization consists of sulfide mineralization lying below and along strike of the existing open pit.
A third-party NI 43-101 technical study was completed for Vista Gold on the Batman deposit on June 26, 2006, by Gustavson Associates, LLC ("Gustavson") of Boulder, Colorado, under the direction of Mr. John Rozelle, an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and resource estimation methodology. The study is titled "Report NI 43-101 Technical Report On The Mt. Todd Gold Project, Northern Teritory (sic), Australia" and is dated June 26, 2006. It is available on SEDAR. The report includes the results of 91,225 assay intervals from 730 drill holes (225 core, 435 reserve circulation and 70 rotary drill holes) done by BHP Resources Pty Ltd., Zapopan NL and Pegasus with assaying by Australia Assay Laboratories in Pine Creek and Alice Springs, Classic Comlabs in Darwin and Pegasus' onsite lab. Pegasus mined part of the Batman deposit from 1993 to 1997, and a joint venture comprising Multiplex Resources Pty Ltd. and General Gold Resources Ltd. mined the deposit from 1999 to 2000.
The deposit has a drill hole spacing that varies from 80 feet by 80 feet to 260-330 feet by 260-330 feet and generally averages 160 feet by 160 feet. All assaying was fire assay on 50-gram charges. It is the opinion of Gustavson that quality control and quality assurance methods employed by the various companies working at Mt. Todd were standard at the time of the work, and the work including quality control and quality assurance methods has been audited several times by independent consultants.
Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Batman deposit, above a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, was estimated to be 62,146,000 tons at a grade of 0.028 gold ounces per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured resources are 20,306,000 tons grading 0.028 gold ounces per ton, indicated resources are 41,840,000 tons grading 0.028 gold ounces per ton and inferred resources are 55,174,000 tons
grading 0.027 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
An NI 43-101 preliminary assessment was prepared for Vista Gold, by Gustavson under the direction of John W. Rozelle, P.G., an independent Qualified Person. The study is titled "Preliminary Economic Assessment, Mt. Todd Gold Project, Northern Territory, Australia" and is dated December 29, 2006. It was posted on SEDAR on January 4, 2007. In undertaking the preliminary assessment, Gustavson considered the economic and technical parameters associated with development of the mineralized material by open-pit mining. The study included a conceptual process flowsheet developed by Resource Development Inc. of Wheat Ridge, Colorado, which is based on preliminary testwork and includes a flotation circuit to recover a bulk sulfide concentrate, and further flotation to separate a copper sulfide concentrate that would contain about one-half of the gold and which would be shipped to a smelter. A pyrite concentrate containing about one-half of the gold would also be produced and this concentrate would be cyanide leached to recover the gold. The cyanide in the sulfide residue would be neutralized, following which the residue would be filtered to dry it, and then placed on a lined pad. MWH Australia Pty Ltd ("MWH") designed conceptual tailing disposal facilities, including utilizing the existing tailing facility, and estimated capital costs for these facilities. MWH also completed a closure study and cost estimate for closing the mine and facilities following resumption of production.
In the preliminary assessment, Gustavson assumed a 33,000 ton-per-day (11.7 million tons-per-year) ore production rate, resulting in a ten-year operating life. Overall gold recovery was estimated at 87% and copper recovery at 70%.
The cost estimates used in the preparation of a preliminary assessment are generally accepted as being within plus or minus 35-40% of what might be incurred in actual construction and operations. The costs in the Mt. Todd preliminary assessment are within this level of confidence. Startup capital is estimated by Gustavson at $264 million. Mining costs are estimated at $1.21 per tonne ($1.10 per ton) of material mined, processing costs are estimated at $6.48 per tonne ($5.88 per ton) of ore processed and general and administrative costs are estimated at $0.14 per tonne ($0.13 per ton) processed. Based on these preliminary numbers, a review of the project economics indicates that the project continues to look favorable. However, the study is based on mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) and not mineral reserves. Mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. A determination of mineral reserves is necessary to demonstrate economic viability of the Batman Deposit.
Additionally, in 2006, we applied for exploration rights to tenements totaling about 273,380 acres adjoining the mining tenements, which were granted in 2007, at which time we began to compile data from previous exploration companies in order to assess the exploration potential.
An infill core drilling program consisting of 25 holes totaling 32,425 feet of drilling was completed in June 2007 to attempt to increase the mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) in areas where the drill spacing is too wide to have confidence in the presence and grade of mineralized material within the planned pit, to expand the amount of mineralized material if possible, and to provide fresh samples for metallurgical testing. By the end of 2007, all gold assays had been received, with some check assays and base metals assays pending. In early 2008, we commissioned a new study to update estimates of mineralized material that would also include base metal content.
In late February 2008, we announced an NI 43-101 updated estimate for Vista Gold of mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) by Tetra Tech of Golden, Colorado. This updated estimate was completed under the direction of Mr. John Rozelle, P.G., an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The study is titled "Mt Todd Gold Project Gold Resource Update, Northern Territory, Australia" and is dated March 14, 2008. It is available on SEDAR. Results of prior drilling plus the additional drilling we completed in 2007 were included in the estimate. Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Batman deposit, above a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, is estimated at 98,413,000 tons grading 0.029 gold ounces per ton, and represents an increase of 65% in mineralized material over the prior estimate.
At the same cut-off grade, under Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 47,987,000 tons grading 0.028 gold ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 50,425,000 tons grading 0.031 gold ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 64,832,000 tons grading 0.024 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
In April 2008, we announced an NI 43-101 estimate completed for Vista Gold of silver and copper mineralization in the Batman Deposit by Tetra Tech of Golden, Colorado. This estimate was completed under the direction of Mr. John Rozelle, P.G., an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The study is titled "Mt Todd Gold Project Resource Update, Northern, Territory, Australia" and is dated May 15, 2008. It is available on SEDAR. These resource estimates complement the updated estimate of gold mineralized material (gold mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) for the Batman deposit we announced in February, 2008. The estimates incorporate the results of 9,460 assay intervals from 25 drill holes (all core holes) drilled by Vista Gold in 2007 with assaying completed by Northern Australia Labs in Pine Creek and ALS-Chemex in Perth. These results are in addition to the results of 87 copper assays completed on random intervals from 730 drill holes (225 core, 435 reverse circulation and 70 rotary drill holes) done by BHP Resources Pty Ltd., Zapopan NL and Pegasus Gold Australia Pty Ltd. From the un-mined portion of the 730 drill holes previously completed (by BHP, Zapopan, & Pegasus), we submitted 2,979 intervals of core for re-assay and multi-element analysis. The re-assay and multi-element analysis was completed by ALS-Chemex in Perth and has been incorporated into the estimates. At a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, silver measured material was estimated at 98,413,000 tons grading 0.043 silver ounces per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 47,987,000 tons grading 0.042 silver ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 50,425,000 tons grading 0.045 silver ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 64,832,000 tons grading 0.050 silver ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
At a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, copper measured material was estimated at 98,413,000 tons grading 0.05% copper per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 47,987,000 tons grading 0.05% copper per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 50,425,000 tons grading 0.05% copper per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 64,832,000 tons grading 0.05% copper per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves
do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
Also in 2008, we completed a 14-hole, 29,547-foot diamond drill program designed to test the down-dip extension of mineralization within the pit-shape drilled and evaluated in 2007, the continuity of mineralization below that pit shape and to obtain a sample for ongoing metallurgical testing.
In late January 2009, we announced the results of an updated NI 43-101 gold resource estimate on the Batman Deposit completed for us by Tetra Tech of Golden, Colorado. This estimate was completed under the direction of Mr. John Rozelle, P.G., an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The report is titled "Mt Todd Gold Project Gold Resource Update, Northern Territory, Australia" and is dated February 27, 2009. It is available on SEDAR. The updated estimate of mineralized material (mineral resource estimate under Canadian guidelines) incorporates the results of 7,367 assay intervals from 14 drill holes (all core holes) drilled by Vista Gold in 2008 with sample preparation and assaying completed by ALS Chemex. These results are in addition to the results of 100,685 assay intervals from 755 drill holes (250 core, 435 reverse circulation and 70 rotary drill holes) completed previously by BHP Resources Pty Ltd., Zapopan NL, Pegasus Gold Australia Pty Ltd. and Vista Gold, which were used in the previous updates of the Mt. Todd resource estimate. Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Batman deposit, above a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, is estimated at 165,985,000 tons grading 0.027 gold ounces per ton, and represents an increase of 57% in mineralized material over the prior estimate.
At the same cut-off grade, under the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 49,212,000 tons grading 0.029 gold ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 116,773,000 tons grading 0.027 gold ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 73,551,000 tons grading 0.025 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
A metallurgical testing program using the core obtained in the 2007 and 2008 drilling programs is in progress. The goals of the program are to define the process flowsheet for the processing the Mt. Todd ore and to determine other key processing parameters, including energy requirements. As we announced in November 2008, preliminary tests using High Pressure Grinding Rolls have been very successful, indicating a reduction in crushing and grinding energy requirements compared to conventional technologies of approximately 30%. We plan to conduct additional studies in 2009 which will be used in the completion of a preliminary feasibility study for a project similar in scope to that considered in the previously published preliminary assessment (January 4, 2007).
Awak Mas
On May 27, 2005, we completed our acquisition of the Awak Mas gold deposit in Sulawesi, Indonesia, for a purchase price of $1.5 million. The acquisition of the Awak Mas gold project involved the purchase, through the Corporation's wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold (Barbados) Corp. ("Vista Barbados"), of all of the outstanding shares of Salu Siwa Pty Ltd, an Australian company ("Salu Siwa") from the two owners of Salu Siwa: Weston Investments Pty Ltd., an Australian company ("Weston"), and Organic Resource Technology Limited, an Australian company ("ORT"). Weston and ORT respectively owned 66% and 34% of the outstanding Salu Siwa shares. Salu Siwa in turn owns 99% of the outstanding shares of PT Masmindo Dwi, an Indonesian company ("PT Masmindo"), which is the direct holder of the Awak Mas gold project. The remaining 1% of the outstanding PT Masmindo shares is held by Vista Barbados. This project is held by Vista Gold through a contract of work ("CoW") with the Indonesian government.
A map showing the location of the CoW and a table describing the land holding and holding requirements follow.
Awak Mas Land Holdings of Vista Gold
We completed the exploration phase of the CoW in January 2008 and entered the feasibility phase in February. The feasibility phase usually lasts one year, but may be negotiated for up to 2 one-year extensions. Following the feasibility phase, with government approvals, there would be a construction phase lasting usually three years. The operating period follows the construction phase, lasting usually 10 to 30 years. In late 2008, we applied for a suspension of the feasibility period for one year. We also applied for a reduction in area, as required, to eliminate the areas where we believe there is low potential to discover economic mineralization.
Infrastructure and Access
The project is accessible by existing secondary paved and gravel public roads. The access roads will require improvements in order to support the loads associated with the construction of the project. At the present time, the project area is undeveloped with only a small office/camp complex and several sheds used for drill sample storage and the drill access roads constructed during the exploration phase.
Electrical power is presently supplied by diesel generator. Project power requirements may be supplied by diesel generated power or with commercial power from Palopa. If the latter is chosen, approximately 25 miles of new power line construction will be required. The project is located at the headwaters of a significant river system. We believe that a small water reservoir can be constructed to provide water for the project.
Geology
The Awak Mas property is situated on the southern side of the Central Sulawesi Metamorphic Belt within a 30-mile long, north-northeast trending fault-bounded block of basement metamorphic rocks and younger sediments. The property covers approximately 221,530 acres. The western margin of this block is represented by an easterly dipping thrust, whereas the eastern margin is defined by a major basement structure. Imbricate faulting has complicated the internal morphology of the block. The property is dominated by the late Cretaceous Latimojong Formation, consisting of phyllites, slates, basic to intermediate volcanics, limestone and schist representing a platform and/or fore arc trough flysch sequence. The Latimojong Formation overlies basement metamorphic rocks dominated by phyllites and slates. Both sequences have been intruded by late-stage plugs and stocks of diorite, monzonite and syenite. To the east of the metamorphic block, basic intermediate intrusives, pyroclastics and volcanogenic sediments comprising the Mesozoic Lamasi Ophiolite Complex appear to have been obducted into a position effectively overlying the younger flyschoid sequence and basement metamorphics during continental accretion.
Gold mineralization is distinctly mesothermal in character, atypical of the more ubiquitous low temperature or epithermal precious metal mineralization within many island arc environments in Indonesia. Gold is associated with sulphur-poor, sodic-rich fluids introduced at a relatively late stage in the tectonic history. Albite-pyrite-silica-carbonate alteration, which accompanies gold deposition, clearly overprints the ductile fabric associated with deformation and metamorphism in the older basement lithologies.
The majority of gold mineralization on the property, including the Awak Mas deposit, is predominantly hosted within the flysch sequence, which typically dips at between 15o and 50o, generally towards the north. The majority of gold mineralization is associated with abundant quartz veining and silica-albite-pyrite alteration; however, the association of gold and quartz is not ubiquitous, with some vein zones appearing to be locally barren of mineralization.
Two main styles of mineralization are present. The first represents broad shallow dipping zones of sheeted and stockwork quartz veining and associated alteration that conform to the shear fabric, especially within the dark, graphitic mudstones. The other style consists of steeper dipping zones of quartz veining and breccias associated with high angle faults cutting both the flyschoid cover sequence and basement metamorphics.
Late-stage, north-northeast trending normal faults locally disrupt or offset mineralization. A surface layer of consolidated scree and colluvium averaging 1.8 to 2.4 feet (maximum 9 feet) in thickness veneers the deposit. The base of weak oxidation within the mineralized sequence typically is within 12 feet of surface.
A final feasibility study was completed by independent consultants in 1997 for Lone Star Exploration NL supporting a mining scenario of 3 million metric tons per year of ore. Independent valuations of the project were completed in 2000 and 2003 as well. Over $43 million has been spent on the project by previous operators.
During 2005, we initiated an exploration program designed to identify drill targets in outlying surface indications of gold mineralization. The program involved soil and rock geochemistry, drilling shallow test holes to obtain bedrock samples, geologic mapping and interpretation of results. In 2006, we completed a 13-hole diamond drill program totaling 8,440 feet that was designed to upgrade shows of mineralization into reportable amounts.
Gustavson of Boulder, Colorado, completed a third-party NI 43-101 technical study for us in June 2007. This estimate was completed under the direction of Mr. John Rozelle, P.G., an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The report is titled "Report NI 43-101, Technical Report on the Awak Mas Gold Project, Sulawesi, Indonesia" and is dated June 6, 2007. It is available on SEDAR. An assay database for 803 drill holes (654 core and 158 reverse circulation holes) totaling 319,639 feet of drilling was used to estimate mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines). Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the deposit, above a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, is estimated at 45,862,000 tons grading 0.036 gold ounces per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 7,084,000 tons grading 0.038 gold ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 38,150,000 tons grading 0.036 gold ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 22,468,000 tons grading 0.024 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
Gustavson was commissioned in June 2007 to complete a preliminary assessment for Vista Gold of the project under NI 43-101 standards. The study was completed on January 16, 2008, under the direction of John Rozelle, an independent Qualified Person. The report is titled "Preliminary Assessment, Awak Mas Gold Project, Sulawesi, Indonesia" and is dated January 16, 2008. It is available on SEDAR. In undertaking the preliminary assessment, Gustavson considered the economic and technical parameters associated with development of the mineralized material (mineral resources under Canadian guidelines) by open-pit mining. The study included a process flowsheet based on three stages of laboratory and pilot plant test programs from 1994 to 1997. The flowsheet was developed by Minproc Engineers Ltd. in 1997, and reviewed and approved by Resource Development Inc. of Wheat Ridge, Colorado, for this study. The flowsheet includes a flotation circuit to recover gold associated with sulfide minerals following which the concentrate would be treated in a carbon-in-leach circuit to recover the gold. The benign tailings from the flotation circuit would flow by gravity into a tailings impoundment and the sulfide tailings would be detoxified, filtered and conveyed to a small "dry-stack" sulfide tailings storage facility. MWH Americas Inc. of Denver and Steamboat Springs, Colorado, prepared the tailings
disposal sites layout and closure plans, and assessed permitting requirements. The potential development included four different scenarios that would produce an estimated 0.6 to 1.0 million ounces of gold over a project life of 7 to 15 years. Gustavson estimated the preproduction capital to be $124 million to $178 million, depending on the scenario, and the total capital cost over the project life to be $148 million to $218 million. The cost estimates used in the preparation of a preliminary assessment are generally accepted as being within plus or minus 35 to 40% of what might be incurred in actual construction and operations. The costs in the Awak Mas preliminary assessment are within this level of confidence. However, this preliminary assessment uses mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) and not mineral reserves. Mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. A determination of mineral reserves would be necessary to demonstrate economic viability of the Awak Mas gold project.
Yellow Pine
The Yellow Pine gold project is located in the Salmon River Mountains of central Idaho in an area of historical gold, antimony and tungsten mining known as the Stibnite or Yellow Pine Mining District. The district is located in Valley County about 60 miles east of McCall, Idaho, and 10 miles southeast of the small settlement of Yellow Pine, Idaho. The project consists of 17 patented mining claims covering about 304 acres. A map showing the location of the mining claims and a table with a list of the mining claims and the holding requirements follow.
Patented Mining Claims at Yellow Pine Controlled by Vista Gold
Unpatented Mining Claims at Yellow Pine Controlled by Vista Gold
Note: all claims are Unpatented Federal Lode Mining Claims and do not expire provided annual fees are paid by August 31 of each year.
On November 7, 2003, Vista Gold, through Idaho Gold Resources LLC ("Idaho Gold"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Vista Gold, entered into an Option to Purchase Agreement with Bradley Mining Company ("Bradley") for a nine year option to purchase 100% of Yellow Pine for $1,000,000. Idaho Gold made an option payment of $100,000 upon execution of the agreement. The agreement calls for Idaho Gold to make nine more yearly payments of $100,000 on or before each anniversary date of the agreement, for a total option payment price of $1,000,000, and annual payments of $100,000 each were made in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 (see Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 5). If Idaho Gold exercises its option to purchase the project, all option payments shall be applied as a credit against the purchase price of $1,000,000. Idaho Gold has the right to terminate the agreement at any time without penalty. Eleven of the claims are subject to an underlying 5% net smelter returns royalty.
Infrastructure and Access
The project is accessible by existing public gravel roads. The town of Yellow Pine, Idaho, has year-round access. From Yellow Pine, the remaining 11 miles of access to the project is by means of a gravel road that is presently not passable in the winter months.
The Yellow Pine Mine operated on an irregular basis from 1938 to 1952. There is a small open pit and some old buildings in various states of disrepair. At the present time, Vista Gold has no installations at or near the Yellow Pine gold project.
There is no present source of power at the Yellow Pine gold project, nor has planning advanced to the point of determining the source of power for the project. At the present, it is assumed that water for the project will be available from wells, pit de-watering, and/or the East Fork of the South Fork of the Salmon River, but our planning has not advanced to the point of a definitive determination.
Geology
The Yellow Pine Mining District is located within the Cretaceous age Idaho Batholith, near its eastern border and adjacent to the Meadow Creek fault zone. The gold deposits of the Yellow Pine district are hosted primarily in the quartz monzonites of the Idaho batholith and within the major shear and fault zones that transect the district. Ore deposits also occur in the metasediments of a large roof pendant within the granitic rocks. Historic mining of the Yellow Pine and the Homestake open pits on the Yellow Pine property has depleted the oxide gold mineralization, but significant sulfide gold mineralization remains unmined. Historically, the mine has produced about 700,000 ounces of gold from a combination of byproduct gold from tungsten and antimony mining and more recent heap-leach production from oxide ore.
Gold and antimony occur principally in veinlets, stockworks, fissure-fillings, and massive lenses. Gold appears to be associated with pyrite and arsenopyrite whereas silver is associated with antimony. The primary gold mineralization occurs within a zone of stockwork sulfide veinlets also containing stibnite, pyrite and arsenopyrite. The principal antimony mineral is stibnite. Tungsten occurs in the mineral scheelite. Deposits are characterized by argillic and sericitic alteration with some silicification.
The Meadow Creek fault and its subsidiary structures trend north and northeast across the district and are a major controlling factor on the regional mineralization. The Yellow Pine mine, the largest mineralized area, is located in the Meadow Creek fault hanging wall, where the fault strike changes from northerly to northeasterly and a zone of stockwork sulfide veining occurs. The mineralized zone is about 2,000 feet long by 700 feet wide with a vertical extent of up to about 1,000 feet. It is cone shaped with the narrower, bottom area of the cone indicating possible continuity of the mineralization at depth both down dip along the hanging wall of the Meadow Creek fault and to the northwest.
The Homestake area appears as a continuation to the northeast of the Yellow Pine zone. The two zones have some similarities as well as differences. The Homestake sulfide zone is also directly associated with the Meadow Creek fault. It appears however to have a somewhat different structural style from the Yellow Pine area. The mineralized zone is about 1,500 feet long by 600 feet wide and up to 350 feet vertically. It has an overall tabular shape with a true width of about 100 to 200 feet. Drill hole information indicates that the mineralization at Homestake is encountered in both the hanging wall of the Meadow Creek fault zone as well as the footwall.
Gold grades tend to be quite a bit lower than at the Yellow Pine area. The Yellow Pine and Homestake sulfide zones may be interconnected.
Pincock, Allen & Holt ("PAH"), of Denver, Colorado, completed an NI 43-101 third-party technical study for us in November 2003, under the direction of Mark G. Stevens, C.P.G., an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The report is titled "Yellow Pine Project, Idaho, USA, Technical Report" and is dated November 17, 2003. It is available on SEDAR. An assay database for 538 drill holes totaling 120,922 feet of drilling was used to estimate mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) in the Yellow Pine and Homestake sulfide zones. Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Yellow Pine gold project, above a cut-off grade of 0.025 gold ounces per ton, is estimated at 33,835,000 tons grading 0.066 gold ounces per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 16,332,000 tons grading 0.070 gold ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 17,503,000 tons grading 0.061 gold ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 16,047,000 tons grading 0.051 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
In November 2006, PAH completed a NI 43-101 preliminary assessment under the direction of Richard Lambert, P.E. and Barton Stone, P.G., both independent Qualified Persons. The study is titled "CNI 43-101 Technical Report, Preliminary Assessment of the Yellow Pine Project, Yellow Pine, Idaho" and is dated December 13, 2006. It is available on SEDAR. In undertaking the preliminary assessment, PAH considered the economic and technical parameters associated with development of the mineralization by open-pit mining. The study, based on PAH's review of previous technical studies and their own work, determined the best treatment approach would be an on-site plant to produce a flotation concentrate that would be refined off-site. The potential development would produce an estimated 1.9 million ounces of gold over a 10-year life. PAH estimated the total capital cost over the project life to be $170 million and preproduction capital to be $150 million. The cost estimates used in the preparation of a preliminary assessment are generally accepted as being within plus or minus 35 to 40% of what might be incurred in actual construction and operations. The costs in the Yellow Pine preliminary assessment are within this level of confidence. However, this preliminary assessment uses mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) and not mineral reserves. Mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. A determination of mineral reserves would be necessary to demonstrate economic viability of the Yellow Pine gold project.
Long Valley
The Long Valley gold project is located in the Inyo National Forest, about 7 miles east of the town of Mammoth Lakes, in Mono County, California. The property consists of 95 contiguous, unpatented mining claims that cover an area of approximately 1,963 acres. A location map and table describing the claims held by Vista Gold follow.
Unpatented Mining Claims at Long Valley Controlled by Vista Gold
Note: all claims are Unpatented Federal Lode Mining Claims and do not expire provided annual fees are paid by August 31 of each year.
On January 22, 2003, we executed an option agreement to acquire 100% of the Long Valley gold project from Standard Industrial Minerals, Inc. ("Standard"). Under the terms of the option agreement, we agreed to pay Standard $750,000 over five years, with annual payments to be due as follows: $100,000 due on each of January 15, 2003, 2004, and 2005; $200,000 due on January 15, 2006, and $250,000 due on January 15, 2007. We made these payments (see Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 5), and in January 2007, exercised our option to purchase the property, which is held through Vista Gold California LLC, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Vista Gold.
During the period of 1994 through 1997, Royal Gold, Inc. ("Royal") drilled 615 reverse circulation and 10 core holes at the Long Valley property. During this time, Royal also completed metallurgical investigations, preliminary engineering studies, including resource estimations, and initiated baseline-type environmental studies of the biological, water and archeological resources of the area. We have acquired all related data from Royal in exchange for a 1% net smelter returns royalty to Royal. The database contains 896 drill holes, totaling 268,275 feet. The majority of holes were drilled using reverse circulation methods. Gold was primarily analyzed by fire assay, with grade determinations by atomic absorption.
Infrastructure and Access
The Long Valley property is located about 7 miles to the east of the town of Mammoth Lakes and about 45 miles north of the town of Bishop, California. Both towns are connected by U.S. Highway 395, which passes a few miles west of the property. Access to the property from the highway is via a series of graded gravel roads. The property is in an undisturbed condition.
Groundwater has been encountered in many exploration drill holes at depths of 200 to 300 feet and should be available in sufficient quantities for processing. It is believed that adequate power is available in the area with no more than a few miles of additional powerline required to reach the property.
Vista Gold has no installations at or near the project.
Geology
The Long Valley gold project claims are contained entirely within the early Pleistocene-age Long Valley Caldera, which has been dated at about 760,000 years old. The caldera is an elongated east-west oval depression measuring some 10 miles by 20 miles and is related to eruption of the Bishop Tuff, which is covered by younger rocks within the caldera.
The Long Valley gold mineralization is located near the center of the caldera and is underlain by lithologic units related to the caldera formation and its subsequent resurgence. Associated with resurgent doming is a sequence of interbedded volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks which were deposited in a lacustrine setting within the caldera. These rocks consist of sediment (siltstones through conglomerates) and debris-flow deposits, with local deposits of intercalated silica sinter and rhyolite flows and dikes. All of these lithologies have been altered and/or mineralized to variable degrees. Intruding the generally flat-lying lake sediments are several rhyolite domes that have been dated from 200,000 to 300,000 years in age.
The north-south trending Hilton Creek fault zone appears to define the eastern limit of the resurgent dome within the central part of the Long Valley Caldera and extends outside the caldera to the south. Offset along this fault appears to be variable and suggests that fault activity along this zone may be episodic in nature.
Gold and silver mineralization at Long Valley appears to fall under the general classification of an epithermal, low sulfidation-type deposit. Several areas, termed the North, Central, South, Southeast and Hilton Creek zones, on the Long Valley property are mineralized with low grades of gold and silver. The mineralized zones are generally north-south trending, up to 8,000 feet in length with widths ranging from 500 feet to 1,500 feet. The tabular bodies are generally flat-lying or have a shallow easterly dip. Mineralization is typically from 50 to 200 feet thick and, in the South and Southeast zones, is exposed at or very near the surface. The top of the Hilton Creek zone is covered by 20 to 50 feet of alluvium. The majority of the mineralization discovered to date is located in the Hilton Creek zone.
Gold and silver mineralization is quite continuous throughout the zones and is well defined above a cut-off grade of 0.010 gold ounces per ton. Within the continuous zones of low-grade gold mineralization (above 0.010 gold ounces per ton) are numerous zones of higher grade mineralization above 0.050 gold ounces per ton, particularly in the Hilton Creek zone, which may relate to zones of enhanced structural preparation. Mineralized zones typically correlate with zones of more intense clay alteration or argillization and/or silicification.
In February 2003, Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada ("MDA"), completed an NI 43-101 third-party technical study for Vista Gold on the Long Valley gold project under the direction of Mr. Neil Prenn, an independent Qualified Person. The study is titled "Technical Report, Long Valley Project, Mono County, California, USA" and is dated February 20, 2003. It is available on SEDAR. Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Yellow Pine gold project, above a cut-off grade of 0.010 gold ounces per ton, is estimated at 62,275,700 tons grading 0.018 gold ounces per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, measured mineral resources are estimated at 26,596,900 tons grading 0.017 gold ounces per ton, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 41,678,800 tons grading 0.018 gold ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 101,189,000 tons grading 0.018 gold ounces per ton. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
In January 2008, MDA completed an NI 43-101 third-party preliminary assessment for Vista Gold for the Long Valley gold project under the direction of Mr. Neil Prenn, an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The study is titled "Technical Report, Preliminary Assessment, Long Valley Project, Mono County, California, USA" and is dated January 9, 2008. It is available on SEDAR. In undertaking the preliminary assessment, MDA considered the economic and technical parameters associated with development of mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) within the restraints imposed by the state of California's mining regulations that include a provision that all mined materials not removed from the property be replaced within the perimeter of the excavation. The preliminary assessment evaluated the potential economics of the project assuming that the mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) were mined using open-pit mining methods and processed using heap-leach technology. The metallurgical test work and flowsheet were reviewed and approved for this study by Resource Development Inc. of Wheat Ridge, Colorado. After the pit material has been mined, the remaining waste materials would be backfilled into the pit along with the detoxified heap material. The potential development would produce an estimated 535,300 ounces of gold over an eight-year mine life. MDA estimated start-up capital at $58.8 million and total project capital at $61.8 million. However, this preliminary assessment uses mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) and not mineral reserves. Mineral resources (mineralized material under SEC Industry Guide 7) that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. A determination of mineral reserves would be necessary to demonstrate economic viability of the Long Valley gold project.
Guadalupe de los Reyes
Guadalupe de los Reyes is located in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range, approximately 68 miles by air (124 miles by road) north of the coastal city of Mazatlán, and 19 miles by road southeast of the town of Cosalá in Sinaloa State, Mexico. The property is held through Federal mining concessions totaling about 10,965 acres. A location map and table of mining concessions controlled by Vista follow.
Mining Concessions at Guadalupe de los Reyes Controlled by Vista Gold
On August 1, 2003, we executed an agreement to acquire a 100% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project and a data package associated with the project and general area, for aggregate consideration of $1.4 million and a 2% net smelter returns royalty. During a due diligence period prior to the signing of the purchase agreement, we made payments to the owner, Sr. Enrique Gaitan Maumejean, totaling $100,000, and upon exercising our option to complete the purchase, paid an additional $200,000. On August 4, 2004, we issued 138,428 Common Shares to Sr. Gaitan in satisfaction of the scheduled payment of $500,000, which could be made in cash or Common Shares at our discretion. An additional $500,000 in cash is to be paid in installments of $100,000 on each of the second through sixth anniversaries of the signing of the formal agreement, with the outstanding balance becoming due upon commencement of commercial production. Payments of $100,000 were made in each of 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. A 2% net smelter returns royalty will be paid to the previous owner and may be acquired by us at any time for $1.0 million. We retain the right to terminate the agreement at any time.
On December 19, 2007, we announced that we had signed an agreement to acquire Grandcru's interest in two gold/silver mineral properties adjacent to our Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project in Sinaloa, México. The acquisition was completed on January 24, 2008. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to (a) pay Grandcru $425,000 less any amounts payable in back taxes on the mining concessions, and pay a private investment group known as the San Miguel Group $75,000, and (b) issue to Grandcru and the San Miguel Group, in aggregate, Common Shares of the Corporation with a value of $1,000,000 (amounting to 213,503 Common Shares) on closing. In addition, we reached agreement with San Luis and with the San Miguel Group to complete the acquisition of their respective interests in the mining concessions at the same time as the closing occurs with Grandcru. We agreed to pay a 2% NSR on all minerals produced payable to the San Miguel Group on the mining concessions known as the San Miguel Concessions. We agreed to pay San Luis a 1% NSR on mining concessions known as the San Luis Concessions and the San Miguel Concessions, and 2% to 3% NSR depending on the gold price on the Corporation's mining concessions known as the Gaitán Concessions. At gold prices below $499.99 per ounce, the royalty payable to San Luis on the Gaitan Concessions will be 2% and at or above $500 per ounce, the royalty will be 3%. Certain of the San Luis Concessions are subject to a pre-existing underlying royalty of 3% NSR payable to Sanluis Corporación, S.A. de C.V.
Infrastructure and Access
Access to the Guadalupe de Los Reyes gold project area is from approximately midway (60 miles) on the toll road that connects the cities of Mazatlan, and Culiacan of the State of Sinaloa, and then to Cosala by a 34-mile, two-lane paved highway. An 18-mile dirt road connects Cosala with the project area. An airstrip for small aircraft is located near Cosala, with public and private service to the cities of Mazatlan, Culiacan and Durango. The nearest source of electric power is in Cosala.
Sporadic underground mining of veins in the district occurred from the 1770s until the 1950s. Currently, Vista Gold has no installations at or near the project.
Geology
Guadalupe de los Reyes occurs in a late Cretaceous-to-Tertiary-age volcanic sequence of rocks. Gold and silver mineralization has been found along a series of northwesterly and west-northwesterly trending structural zones. Mineralization in these zones is typical of low-sulfidation epithermal systems. Eight main target areas have been identified along three major structural zones. Several of these targets have bulk tonnage potential which may be amenable to open-pit mining, including the El Zapote, San Miguel, Guadalupe Mine, Tahonitas, and Noche Buena zones. The El Zapote target occurs in the Mariposa-El Zapote-Tahonitas structural zone on the western side of the project area and has been mapped for a distance of 2 miles. The El Zapote deposit is one of three deposits found along this structural zone, with the inactive underground Mariposa Mine 0.6 miles to the northwest and the Tahonitas prospect 0.3 miles to the southeast. The Guadalupe zone occurs as the northwest extension of the mineralized structures that were developed by underground mining along approximately 3,280 feet of the veins and to some 1,300 feet deep. The Guadalupe zone is found in the northeast portion of the area and has produced the majority of precious metals within the district. The San Miguel and Noche Buena zones are enclosed by the same northwestern trending structure in between the El Zapote-Mariposa and the Guadalupe structures.
In July 2003, a third-party NI 43-101 technical study was performed for Vista Gold by Pincock, Allen & Holt, of Denver, Colorado, under the direction of Mr. Mark G. Stevens, C.P.G., an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and estimation methodology. The study is titled "Technical Report for the Guadalupe de Los Reyes Gold-Silver Project, State of Sinaloa, Western Mexico" and is dated July 17, 2003. The report is available on SEDAR. The study included assay data from 381 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 118,633 feet and the drilling was performed by Northern Crown Mines Limited from 1993 to 1997. Approximately 80% of the project analytical samples were delivered to Bondar-Clegg de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. ("Bondar-Clegg") in Hermosillo, México for sample preparation with assaying done at Bondar-Clegg's assay laboratory in Vancouver, British Columbia. Approximately 20% of the sample preparation and assaying was conducted by SGS-XRAL laboratories in Hermosillo, México. Based on the report, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project, above a cut-off grade of 0.015 gold ounces per ton, is estimated at 11,090,000 tons grading 0.044 gold ounces per ton and 0.67 silver ounces per ton.
At the same cut-off grade, under Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in the CIM Definition Standards, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 6,996,000 tons grading .040 gold ounces per ton and 0.67 silver ounces per ton and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 4,233,000 tons grading 0.059 gold ounces per ton and 1.91 silver ounces per ton. These estimates are only for the ground controlled by Vista Gold prior to the acquisition of lands controlled by Grandcru. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. U.S. Investors should read the "Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Reserve and Resource Estimates" above concerning the difference between "resources" and "reserves".
ITEM 3.