ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Detailed information is contained herein with respect to the Maverick Springs and Mountain View projects, the Hycroft mine, and the Long Valley, Paredones Amarillos, Amayapampa, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, Guadalupe de los Reyes, Wildcat, and Yellow Pine projects. The Corporation holds the Maverick Springs, Mountain View, Long Valley, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, and Wildcat projects through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Vista Nevada Corp.; the Hycroft mine is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Hycroft Lewis Mine, Inc.; Paredones Amarillos and Guadalupe de los Reyes are held through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Paredones Amarillos S.A. de C.V.; Amayapampa is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Nueva Vista S.A., and the Yellow Pine project is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Idaho Gold Resources LLC. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
Maverick Springs
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. The property consists of 86 claims with a total area of approximately 3,900 acres.
On October 7, 2002, the Corporation completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project from Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont") and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont's wholly-owned subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited. To acquire the interest in Maverick Springs, the Corporation paid cash of $250,000 and issued 141,243 equity units to
Newmont, each unit comprised of one Common Share and one two-year warrant. Newmont retained a 1.5% net smelter returns royalty, and on October 7, 2003, the Corporation issued to Newmont 122,923 Common Shares and 122,923 warrants to purchase Common Shares. In addition, the Corporation must complete 20,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004 and an additional 30,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2006. The Corporation may terminate this agreement at any time after October 7, 2004. After October 7, 2006, Newmont has a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the Maverick Springs project, by paying to the Corporation twice the amount that the Corporation has spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont exercises this right, Newmont will relinquish its 1.5% net smelter returns royalty. (See also Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 4).
Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement (the "Artemis lease"), between Newmont and Artemis Exploration Company. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001 and the key terms include: payment of advanced minimum royalties of $50,000 on October 1, 2003 (this has been paid) and advanced minimum royalties of $100,000 on October 1 in 2004 and each year thereafter while the agreement is in effect; work commitments of 6,400 feet of exploration drilling, on or before October 1 in each of 2002 (extended by agreement to November 15, 2002), 2003 and 2004 (the 2002 and 2003 commitments have been met), a preliminary economic evaluation to be conducted by October 1, 2004; and a net smelter returns royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On June 9, 2003, the Corporation entered into an agreement granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. ("SSRI") an option to acquire the Corporation's interest in the silver mineralized material hosted in the Maverick Springs project. The Corporation will retain its 100% interest in the gold mineralized material. The agreement with SSRI is subject to the terms of the purchase agreement between Newmont and the Corporation. Under the agreement, SSRI will pay $1.5 million over four years. A payment of $300,000 was paid to the Corporation in 2003. The remaining $1.2 million will be used by the Corporation to fund exploration programs, land holding costs and option payments. SSRI and the Corporation have formed a committee to jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. The Corporation is the operator and has a 45% vote on the committee, and SSRI has a 55% vote. After SSRI has completed its $1.5 million in payments, costs will be shared by the two corporations on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Vista Gold 45% / SSRI 55%, subject to standard dilution provisions. (See also Consolidated Financial Statements-Notes 4 and 19).
In November 2002, the Corporation completed a 7,020-foot drill program on the Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material.
In October 2003, the Corporation completed a 14-hole reverse circulation program totaling 14,020 feet. Intercepts indicate the potential for bulk-mineable gold-silver mineralization.
Geology
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30° to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongate in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Mineralization consists of micron-sized silver and gold with related pyrite, stibnite and arsenic sulfides. It is usually associated with intense fracturing and brecciation, with or without accompanying whole-rock silicification or stockwork quartz.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulfides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Based on a third-party technical study completed on December 17, 2002 by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Maverick Springs project contains approximately 29.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.012 ounces of gold per ton and 0.97 ounces of silver per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.005 ounces of gold per ton. A technical study including results of the 2003 drilling program to update estimates of mineralized material is planned for 2004 using an independent consulting firm.
Mountain View
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property currently consists of 127 claims with a total area of approximately 2,360 acres.
The Corporation's acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest in the Mountain View property, the Corporation paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units, each unit comprised of one Common Share and a two-year warrant, to Newmont Capital, and Newmont Capital retains a 1.5% net smelter returns royalty. In addition, the Corporation was required to complete 4,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2003 (this work was completed), and must complete an additional 4,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004. The Corporation may terminate this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont Capital has a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the project, by paying to the Corporation twice the amount that the Corporation has spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont Capital exercises this right, Newmont Capital will relinquish its 1.5% net smelter returns royalty (see also Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 4).
Newmont Capital's interest in the Mountain View property is subject to an underlying lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the underlying lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% net smelter returns royalty during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the net smelter returns royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest of the underlying lease. A 1% net smelter returns royalty also applies to certain other claims.
The Corporation completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,330 feet in November 2003. The results indicate the presence of a new zone of bulk mineralization approximately 400 feet east of the known core of mineralization. Also, drill hole MV03-19 intercepted 20 feet assaying 0.112 ounces per ton gold that is 300 feet above an earlier drill hole that also intercepted higher grade mineralization, suggesting that this higher-grade zone is larger than previously known.
The Corporation expects to complete 4,000 feet of drilling in 2004.
Geology
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The gold mineralization is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Based on a third-party technical study completed December 17, 2002 by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Mountain View project contains approximately 23.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.013 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.006 ounces of gold per ton.
Hycroft Mine
The Hycroft mine and related facilities are located 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. The Corporation acquired the Lewis mine in early 1987 and completed construction of the adjacent Crofoot mine project in April 1988. Mining operations at the Hycroft mine were suspended in December 1998, and the site was placed on care and maintenance. Gold production, from continued leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002 and 2003, the amount of gold recovered was not material, as expected. The mine is currently on care and maintenance. From inception in 1987 until suspension of mining operations in December 1998, the Hycroft mine produced over 1 million ounces of gold.
Operating Statistics
Operating statistics for the Hycroft mine for the period 1999 to 2003 were as follows:
(1)Ore processed means ore placed on pads but not necessarily leached during the year.
(2)Cash operating costs are composed of all direct mining expenses including inventory changes, refining and transportation costs, less by-product silver credits. Geology and ore reserves
The Hycroft mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these
units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert. The geological events have created a physical setting ideally suited to the open-pit, heap-leach mining operation at the Hycroft mine. The heap leach method is widely used in the southwestern United States and allows the economical treatment of oxidized low-grade ore deposits in large volumes.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 990 feet in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
The Crofoot and Lewis properties together comprise approximately 12,230 acres. The Crofoot property, originally held under two leases, is owned by the Corporation subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners, and covers approximately 3,544 acres. The Lewis property, which virtually surrounds the Crofoot property, is held through a lease that covers approximately 8,686 acres. The mine is accessible by road and has access to adequate supplies of water and power.
The leasehold interest in the Lewis property extends until January 1, 2013 or for so long thereafter as commercial mining operations continue on the property. The Lewis lease provides for the payment to the lessor of a 5% net smelter returns royalty on gold production. The royalty increases for ore grades above 0.05 ounce per ton and is offset by annual advance minimum royalties. The Corporation has the right to commingle the ore from the Lewis property with ore from the adjoining Crofoot property under an agreement with the lessor of the Lewis property.
Gold production from the Brimstone deposit, the largest ore deposit at the Hycroft mine, had consistently exceeded projections. During 1999 and 2000, the Corporation conducted a $0.6 million exploration program to determine the reasons for the excess gold production, and to re-estimate the grade and tons of the reserves in the Brimstone deposit. Mineral Resources Development, Inc. ("MRDI"), an independent consultant was retained to assist with the evaluation and to provide an independent review of the recalculated mineable reserves. During the period 1996 through 1998, gold mined from the north end of the Brimstone deposit exceeded planned production by 47,090 ounces, or 26%. The excess gold production was a result of mining 13% more ore tons at a 12% higher average grade than predicted in the exploration reserve model.
To evaluate the potential for a similar favorable variance in the remaining Brimstone mineralized material, nine diamond drill holes for a total of 4,870 feet and 11 reverse-circulation drill holes for a total of 5,540 feet were completed in the unmined southern portion of the Brimstone deposit. Seventeen of the 20 holes were twin holes, which were used to establish an adjustment (upgrade) factor for the remaining Brimstone mineralized material. Working with MRDI engineers, a gold-grade enhancement of 25% was estimated. Based on a technical study completed by MRDI, Brimstone contains 41.9 million tons at an average grade of 0.020 ounces of gold per ton and 0.166 ounces of cyanide-soluble silver per ton, using a cut-off grade of 0.007 ounces of gold per ton. Cyanide-silver assays are a measure of the amount of silver that readily dissolves in a cyanide solution and reflect less than the total silver present.
In 2000, the Corporation completed a study of the ore reserves in the Brimstone deposit. Proven and probable reserves contained within the Brimstone mineralized material described above total 23,791,000 tons of ore with an average gold content of 0.0204 ounces per ton, containing 486,000 ounces of gold. Ore reserve calculations were based on a gold price of $300 per ounce and an economic cut-off grade equivalent to 0.007 ounces of gold per ton. Silver was not reported.
Extraction dilution at the Hycroft mine is negligible due to the large size of the pit and the continuity of the ore body. Metallurgical recovery of gold from run-of-mine leaching of the Brimstone ore is projected to be 57% and the planned pit would have a stripping ratio of 1.2-to-1.
Exploration
The Corporation believes there is significant potential to extend the oxide mineralization to the south, along strike, at both the Central Fault and Brimstone deposits, but the greatest upside lies in the largely unexplored sulfide mineralization below the Brimstone deposit, as well as higher grade intercepts along the Central Fault.
Current mineralized material at Brimstone is limited to the oxide cap of an apparently large but previously unexplored gold-bearing sulfide system. Two diamond drill holes, drilled in 1996 and earlier, intercepted mineralized sulfides averaging 0.023 ounces per ton gold and 0.5 ounces per ton silver over intervals exceeding 500 feet in thickness. In 1996, the Corporation also intercepted 30 feet of gold mineralization in drill hole 95-2728. This intercept assayed 0.155 ounces per ton gold at a true depth of 310 feet below surface. The hole terminated in this mineralization; the true width of the mineralization is not known.
In 2004, the Corporation plans to complete a technical study using an independent third-party consultant to update mineralization estimates taking into account higher gold prices and updated production cost estimates to position the property for possible restart of production.
Long Valley
The Long Valley gold project is located in the Inyo National Forest, about 7 miles east of the town of Mammoth Lakes, in Mono County, California. The property consists of 95 contiguous, unpatented mining claims that cover an area of approximately 1,800 acres.
The Corporation has an option to acquire 100% of the Long Valley project from Standard Industrial Minerals, Inc. ("Standard"). Under the terms of the option agreement, the Corporation would pay Standard $750,000 over five years, with annual payments to be due as follows: $100,000 due on each of January 15, 2003, 2004, and 2005; $200,000 due on January 15, 2006, and $250,000 due on January 15, 2007. The Corporation has made the January 2003 and January 2004 payments (see Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 4). The Corporation retains the right to terminate the agreement at any time, and has no work commitments on the project.
During the period of 1994 through 1997, Royal Gold, Inc. ("Royal") drilled 615 reverse circulation and 10 core holes at the Long Valley property. During this time, Royal also completed metallurgical investigations, preliminary engineering studies, including resource estimations, and initiated baseline-type environmental studies of the biological, water and archeological resources of the area. The Corporation has acquired all related data from Royal in exchange for a 1% net smelter returns royalty to Royal. The database contains 896 drill holes, totaling 268,275 feet. The majority of holes were drilled using reverse circulation methods. Gold was primarily analyzed by fire assay, with grade determinations by atomic absorption.
Geology
The Long Valley project claims are contained entirely within the early Pleistocene-age Long Valley Caldera, which has been dated at about 760,000 years old. The caldera is an elongated east-west oval depression measuring some 10 miles by 20 miles and is related to eruption of the Bishop Tuff, which is covered by younger rocks within the caldera.
The Long Valley gold mineralization is located near the center of the caldera and is underlain by lithologic units related to the caldera formation and its subsequent resurgence. Associated with resurgent doming is a sequence of interbedded volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks which were deposited in a lacustrine setting within the caldera. These rocks consist of sediment (siltstones through conglomerates) and debris-flow deposits, with local deposits of intercalated silica sinter and rhyolite flows and dikes. All of these lithologies have been altered and/or mineralized to variable degrees. Intruding the generally flat-lying lake sediments are several rhyolite domes that have been dated from 200,000 to 300,000 years in age.
The north-south trending Hilton Creek fault zone appears to define the eastern limit of the resurgent dome within the central part of the Long Valley Caldera and extends outside the caldera to the south. Offset along this fault appears to be variable and suggests that fault activity along this zone may be episodic in nature.
Gold and silver mineralization at Long Valley appears to fall under the general classification of an epithermal, low sulfidation-type deposit. Several areas, termed the North, Central, South, Southeast and Hilton Creek zones, on the Long Valley property are mineralized with low grades of gold and silver. The mineralized zones are generally north-south trending, up to 8,000 feet in length with widths ranging from 500 feet to 1,500 feet. The tabular bodies are generally flat-lying or have a shallow easterly dip. Mineralization is typically from 50 to 200 feet thick and, in the South and Southeast zones, is exposed at or very near the surface. The top of the Hilton Creek zone is covered by 20 to 50 feet of alluvium. The majority of the mineralization discovered to date is located in the Hilton Creek zone.
Gold and silver mineralization is quite continuous throughout the zones and is well defined above a cut-off grade of 0.010 gold ounces per ton. Within the continuous zones of low-grade gold mineralization (above 0.010 gold ounces per ton) are numerous zones of higher grade mineralization above 0.050 gold ounces per ton, particularly in the Hilton Creek zone, which may relate to zones of enhanced structural preparation. Mineralized zones typically correlate with zones of more intense clay alteration or argillization and/or silicification.
Based on a third-party technical study completed February 20, 2003 by Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada, the Long Valley project contains approximately 68.3 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.018 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton.
The Corporation is planning a drilling and mineralized material review program in 2004 to potentially upgrade the quality of the mineralized material.
Paredones Amarillos
Paredones Amarillos is located 40 miles southeast of the city of La Paz, in the Mexican state of Baja California Sur. The project area covers over 13,784 acres.
The Corporation acquired 100% of the project on August 29, 2002 from Viceroy Resource Corporation ("Viceroy"). To acquire the project, the Corporation paid cash of Cdn $1.0 million and issued 303,030 equity units to Viceroy, and on August 29, 2003 the Corporation paid Viceroy the remaining Cdn $0.5 million due pursuant to the acquisition contract (see also Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 4).
The Paredones Amarillos project has been a significant exploration target since the 1980s. In 1997, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. ("EBM") completed a final feasibility study for an open pit mine on the project. As a result of the subsequent decline in gold prices, start-up was postponed. EBM holds a 2% net profits interest on certain concessions of the project, subject to a cap of $2 million. Additionally, Minera Tepmin, S.A. de C.V., holds a 1% net smelter returns royalty on two concessions. The Corporation intends to review the principal operating assumptions upon which the EBM study was based to identify opportunities to improve the economics of this project.
The project holds environmental authorizations for the purpose of the following: project development including access road, power line, telephone communications, and infrastructure to supply water; construction and operation of a tailings dam; disposal of tailings; construction of a mill; and installation of three pumping stations.
On December 30, 2003, Resource Development Inc. ("RDi") of Denver, Colorado, an independent engineering firm, completed a study commissioned by the Corporation to review metallurgical test work and the bankable feasibility study completed by EBM to evaluate whether a revised flow sheet could lead to a reduction in capital and/or operating costs. RDi reported that by changing the flow sheet from whole-ore leaching to gravity and production of a flotation concentrate with subsequent leaching of the flotation concentrate, a reduction in both capital and operating costs could be achieved. Cash operating costs are forecast at $196 per gold ounce, down 13% from the previous EBM study and total costs are estimated at $279 per gold ounce, a reduction of 11% from EBM's previous work.
The Corporation plans to commission a metallurgical test program in 2004 to confirm the viability of the revised process flow sheet, and also plans to study the mining portion of EBM's final feasibility study to determine if estimated costs can be lowered further through optimization of EBM's mine design and operating parameters.
Geology
General geology consists of diorite roof pendants intruded by a granodiorite batholith with local low and high-angle fault zones. A north-east striking, south-east dipping low-angle fault zone is the main host of gold mineralization at Paredones Amarillos. Movement along this structure has been characterized as reverse, resulting from compression. Secondary, high-angle faulting is thought to control the higher-grade mineralization at the project.
The known gold mineralized material occupies an inverted U-shaped block with an approximate strike length of 3,600 feet east-west, a width of approximately 1,000 feet north-south, and a thickness of approximately 100 feet. The apex of the "U" is near the center of EBM's proposed pit with the legs forming the east and west pit lobes.
Based on a third-party technical study completed by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia on August 20, 2002, the Paredones Amarillos project contains approximately 61.4 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.031 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.015 ounces of gold per ton.
Amayapampa
The Amayapampa project is located 186 miles southeast of La Paz in the Chayanta Municipality, Bustillos Province, Department of Potosi, in southwestern Bolivia. Access is via 167 miles of paved road from La Paz to Machacamarca near Oruro, followed by 62 miles of gravel road to Lagunillas, then nine miles of dirt road to Amayapampa. The Amayapampa property is situated within the moderately rugged Eastern Cordilleran region of Bolivia with elevations at the property varying from 12,300 to 13,450 feet above sea level. Amayapampa consists of 24 mining concessions covering 1,989 acres plus an additional 16,803 acres in regional exploration and exploitation concessions. The project is currently on care and maintenance.
On December 11, 2003, the Corporation reached an agreement to sell the Amayapampa project to Luzon Minerals Ltd. ("Luzon") of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Completion of the transaction is subject to the receipt of all regulatory and other approvals, and completion of due diligence satisfactory to Luzon by June 1, 2004. During this due diligence period, Luzon has agreed to update the feasibility study, complete a technical report in compliance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101, and seek the required financing for the project. Luzon issued the Corporation 50,000 common shares at the start of the due-diligence process, and during the due diligence period, Luzon will pay the Corporation $10,000 per
month for the first four months, then $15,000 per month for the fifth and sixth months. At completion of the due diligence period, provided Luzon elects to proceed, Luzon will pay the Corporation $930,000 and issue the Corporation 2,000,000 common shares. At the earlier of start of construction or January 1, 2006 Luzon will pay the Corporation $4,000,000 or at the Corporation's election, a combination of shares and cash based on Luzon's share price, not to exceed 5,200,000 shares or $4,000,000 cash. Luzon will grant the Corporation a 3% net smelter returns royalty where the price of gold is less than $450 per ounce of gold and a 4% net smelter returns royalty where the price of gold is $450 per ounce of gold or more.
Geology and ore reserves
The Amayapampa deposit underlies a north-northwest trending ridge approximately 0.3 miles east of the town of Amayapampa. The deposit is defined by about 48 diamond drill holes; 96 reverse-circulation drill holes; and 315 underground channel samples totaling 17,585 feet from more than 200 accessible cross-cuts in 43 different levels and sub-levels extending over a vertical distance of 682 feet. The deposit is approximately 1,970 feet in strike length, 98 to 230 feet in width and has an overall dip of the mineralized envelope of 80 to 90 degrees west. The depth extent of continuous mineralization is in excess of 656 feet to about the 12,795-foot elevation, although some mineralization is present below this depth. Gold occurs free and associated with sulfides in a structural zone in which quartz veins were emplaced then sheared prior to introduction of sulfides and gold mineralizing solutions.
The host rocks are composed of Ordovician black shales, sandstones, and siltstones, which were weakly metamorphosed to argillites, quartzites, and siltites, respectively. The Amayapampa project is located along the east flank of a north-south trending regional anticline near the top of the Ordovician sequence. Bedding dips are steep at 60 to 80 degrees west, with the east limb of the anticline being overturned and thus, also dipping steeply west.
The mineralized envelope is best described as a structural zone, in which quartz veins were emplaced along a preferential fracture direction.
Most faults, shears and fractures are north-northeast to north-northwest trending and steeply dipping, both east and west, at 60 to 90 degrees. Quartz veins predominantly dip east. Locally, within the zone of mineralization, flat, thrust-like faults are present, which have offset quartz veins to a minor extent. These flat faults, commonly west-dipping at 40 to 45 degrees, can not generally be mapped outside of the main structural zone that hosts the gold mineralization. A west dipping, 45-degree fault projects into the pit on the northeast side of the deposit and was intersected by two vertical, geotechnical core holes. The base of mineralization may also be slightly offset by a similar west-dipping, 45-degree fault.
Oxidation effects are pervasive from the surface to depths of 66 to 98 feet, with only partial oxidization below those depths. Hydrothermal alteration effects evident in fresh rock are minor, and occur as coarse sericite (muscovite) in thin (0.08 to 0.20 inch) selvages along some quartz veins. In addition, chlorite is present in and adjacent to some quartz veins, but this presence may be a product of low-grade metamorphism. Alteration effects are minimal overall, except for surface oxidization.
Mineralization is composed of quartz veins and sulfides and both constitute a visual guide to ore. Quartz veins are a locus for gold mineralization. Quartz veins are typically a few centimeters to two feet in width and commonly occur as sub-parallel vein sets. The strike extent can be 164 to 246 feet or more for any one vein or vein set, but the dip extent is not as well established and probably ranges up to 66 to 98 feet. Multiple vein sets are present in the overall mineralized envelope and veins commonly pinch and swell along strike and down dip.
Sulfide mineralization, hosted by multiple fractures is composed of predominantly pyrite within and adjacent to quartz veins. The total sulfide concentration for the overall mineralized zone is estimated at 3% to 5%. Petrographic examination of the sulfide mineralization shows pyrite to dominate at plus 95% of the total sulfides; arsenopyrite is also present, as are minor amounts of chalcopyrite, galena, sphalerite,
stibnite and tetrahedrite. Gold is present as free gold in association with pyrite, on fractures within pyrite and attached to the surface of pyrite and is often visible as discrete grains on fractures in quartz and argillite. Gold grains exhibit a large size-range, with much of the gold being relatively coarse at 40 to 180 microns. All gold grains display irregular shapes with large surface areas. No gold was noted to be encapsulated in either quartz or sulfide. The content of gold grains was verified as over 97% gold by scanning-electron-microprobe analysis.
District-scale exploration potential exists for defining styles of gold mineralization similar to Amayapampa, which could be developed as satellite ore bodies. In addition, at least 15 drill holes beneath the planned Amayapampa pit suggest the presence of four higher-grade shoots.
In 2000, an update and additional optimization study were completed on a feasibility study originally completed in 1997. Based on a technical study completed by Mine Reserve Associates, Inc., an independent consultant, total mineralized material is 14.2 million tons with an average grade of 0.047 ounces of gold per ton. Included in this mineralization are proven and probable reserves of 10.2 million tons grading 0.051 ounces per ton, containing 526,000 ounces of gold. The reserve calculation is based on a gold price of $300 per ounce. Reserves include extraction dilution of 5% of the tons and 1% of the total ounces. Extraction dilution does not result in any losses of recoverable gold.
Hasbrouck
The Hasbrouck property is located in southwestern Nevada about 5 miles south-southwest of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, adjacent to U.S. Highway 95 and approximately half-way between Reno and Las Vegas. The property consists of 22 patented lode mining claims and 61 unpatented lode claims that cover an area of approximately 1,300 acres.
On May 23, 2003, the Corporation executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital Limited ("Newmont Capital"), a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation, which includes both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property, which lies approximately 4.5 miles to the north-northwest. Terms of the purchase include a $50,000 cash payment on signing and $200,000 or, at the Corporation's discretion, the equivalent in the Corporation's Common Shares one year after signing. The value of the Common Shares will be based on the average AMEX closing price of the Common Shares over the ten-trading-day period ending one day before the first anniversary of the agreement. Newmont Capital, at its option, would retain either: (a) a 2% net smelter returns royalty in each project together with the right to a $500,000 cash payment at the start of commercial production at either project and a further $500,000 cash payment if, after the start of commercial production, the gold price averages $400 per ounce or more for any three-month period; or (b) the right to acquire 51% of either or both projects. The latter right would be exercisable only after the later of four years or the time when the Corporation has incurred aggregate expenditures of $1.0 million to acquire, explore and hold the projects and would include Newmont Capital paying the Corporation cash equaling 200% of the expenditures made by the Corporation on the related property. In this event, Newmont Capital would become operator of a joint venture with the Corporation, and both parties would fund the project through to a production decision. The Corporation's contribution to the joint venture during this period is capped at $5.0 million, $3.0 million of which Newmont Capital would finance for the Corporation and recover, with interest, exclusively from related project cash flows. The Corporation would also grant Newmont a right of first offer with respect to subsequent sale of the projects by the Corporation. An additional 1.5% net smelter royalty on the Hasbrouck property is held by a private party.
Geology
The property is located on Hasbrouck Mountain, which is thought to lie along the western edge of a caldera. The mountain is underlain by gently dipping ash-flow, air-fall and waterlain tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Miocene Siebert Formation. Several occurrences of chalcedonic sinter deposits occur
near the summit of the mountain. Gold and silver mineralization in the Hasbrouck deposit appears to have formed relatively close to the paleo-surface in an epithermal, hot spring environment. The mineralization is concentrated in the Siebert Formation, in units stratigraphically below the chalcedonic sinter deposits that are exposed near the top of Hasbrouck Mountain. Two zones of mineralization are presently defined. The "Main" zone includes the bulk of mineralization at Hasbrouck, while the small "South Adit" zone lies 700 to 1000 feet to the south of the "Main" zone.
A third-party technical study was completed for the Corporation by Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada on August 29, 2003. The Hasbrouck study was developed using data from 54,339 feet of drilling, principally comprised of 105 reverse circulation holes totaling 44,400 feet and 22 rotary drill holes totaling 8,980 feet. The drilling database was compiled from work performed by FMC Gold Co., Cordex Syndicate and Franco Nevada Inc. between 1974 and 1988. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton is 20.3 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton and 0.32 ounces of silver per ton.
Three Hills
Three Hills is located in southwestern Nevada about 1 mile west of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, and about 4.5 miles northwest of the Hasbrouck property described above. Three Hills consists of 15 unpatented lode claims totaling approximately 201 acres.
On May 23, 2003, the Corporation executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital Limited, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation, which included both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property. The terms of this agreement are detailed under the Hasbrouck description above.
Geology
Three Hills is located in the Walker Lane structural domain of the Basin and Range physiographic province. It is in an area of structural disruption resulting from a series of orogenic events occurring in Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic times. Basin and Range high-angle normal faults control the mineralization at Three Hills, where they cut the Siebert Formation. Gold mineralization occurs in a zone of pervasive silicification and in the Siebert Formation and the upper 10 to 30 feet of the Fraction Tuff. The contact between these two units contains consistently higher grades of gold and is more commonly argillized than silicified.
Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada, completed a third-party technical study for the Corporation on August 29, 2003. The Three Hills study included data from 62,874 feet of drilling, comprised of 183 reverse circulation holes totaling 54,657 feet, 45 air-track and rotary holes totaling 6,320 feet and 9 diamond drill holes totaling 1,897 feet. The drilling was completed by Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Eastfield Resources, Saga Exploration and Cordex Syndicate between 1974 and 1996. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton is 5.7 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton.
Guadalupe de los Reyes
Guadalupe de los Reyes is located in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range, approximately 68 miles by air (124 miles by road) north of the coastal city of Mazatlán, and 19 miles by road southeast of the town of Cosalá in Sinaloa State, Mexico. The mineral concessions include two titled concessions for exploitation and three titled concessions for exploration, all covering about 1,475 acres.
On August 1, 2003, the Corporation executed an agreement to acquire a 100% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project and a data package associated with the project and general area, for aggregate consideration of $1.4 million and a 2% net smelter returns royalty. During a due diligence period leading up to the signing of the purchase agreement, the Corporation made payments to the owner, Sr. Enrique
Gaitan Maumejean, totaling $100,000, and upon exercising its option to complete the purchase, paid an additional $300,000. On August 1, 2004, the Corporation will pay a further $500,000 in cash or Common Shares at the discretion of the Corporation. An additional $500,000 in cash will be paid by way of $100,000 payments on each of the second through sixth anniversaries of the signing of the formal agreement, with the outstanding balance becoming due upon commencement of commercial production. A 2% net smelter returns royalty will be paid to the previous owner and may be acquired by the Corporation at any time for $1.0 million. The Corporation retains the right to terminate the agreement at any time.
Geology
Guadalupe de los Reyes occurs in a late Cretaceous-to Tertiary-age volcanic sequence of rocks. Gold and silver mineralization has been found along a series of northwesterly and west-northwesterly trending structural zones. Mineralization in these zones is typical of low sulfidation epithermal systems. Eight main target areas have been identified along three major structural zones. Several of these targets have bulk tonnage potential which may be amenable to open-pit mining, including the El Zapote, San Miguel, Guadalupe Mine, Tahonitas, and Noche Buena zones. The El Zapote target occurs in the Mariposa-El Zapote-Tahonitas structural zone on the western side of the project area and has been mapped for a distance of 2 miles. The El Zapote deposit is one of three deposits found along this structural zone, with the inactive underground Mariposa Mine 0.6 miles to the northwest and the Tahonitas prospect 0.3 miles to the southeast. The Guadalupe zone occurs as the northwest extension of the mineralized structures that were developed by underground mining along approximately 3,280 feet of the veins and to some 1,300 feet deep. The Guadalupe zone is found in the northeast portion of the area and has produced the majority of precious metals within the district. The San Miguel and Noche Buena zones are enclosed by the same northwestern trending structure in between the El Zapote-Mariposa and the Guadalupe structures.
A third-party technical study was performed for the Corporation and reported on July 17, 2003 by Pincock, Allen & Holt, of Denver, Colorado, using assay data from 381 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 118,633 feet. The drilling was performed by Northern Crown Mines Limited from 1993 to 1997. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cutoff grade of 0.016 ounces of gold per ton is 7.0 million tons averaging 0.040 ounces of gold per ton and 0.67 ounces of silver per ton.
Wildcat
Wildcat is located about 35 miles northwest of Lovelock and 26 miles south of the Corporation's Hycroft mine in Pershing County, Nevada. The project consists of 74 unpatented claims and 4 patented claims.
During September and October 2003, the Corporation concluded due diligence reviews and executed formal purchase agreements to acquire the Wildcat project and the associated exploration data in three separate transactions. On September 23, 2003, the Corporation purchased 71 unpatented mining claims from Monex Exploration, a partnership, for $200,000 on signing and $300,000 on or before August 15, 2004. On commencement of commercial production, the Corporation will make a one-time production payment in the amount of $500,000. Under the terms of the agreement, the Corporation has the right to terminate the agreement at any time prior to the August 15, 2004 payment without penalty. Thirteen of the claims are subject to an underlying 0.4% net smelter returns royalty, and the remaining 58 claims are subject to an underlying 1% net smelter returns royalty.
On October 12, 2003, the Corporation purchased a 100% interest in the Vernal unpatented mining claim from David C. Mough and Jody Ahlquist Mough for $50,000 on signing and $50,000 on or before October 12, 2004, for a total consideration of $100,000. Under the terms of the agreement, the Corporation has the right to terminate the agreement at any time prior to the second payment without penalty.
On October 28, 2003, the Corporation purchased four patented mining claims and exploration data from Sagebrush Exploration, Inc. ("Sagebrush") for 50,000 Common Shares of the Corporation issued and delivered to Sagebrush upon the closing of the transaction. The 4 patented claims are subject to an underlying net smelter returns royalty of 1% for gold production between 500,000 and 1,000,000 ounces, increasing to 2% on production in excess of 1,000,000 ounces.
Geology
Wildcat lies in the Seven Troughs Range which is underlain by Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary rocks and has been intruded by Cretaceous granodiorite. Volcanic domes and plugs of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite have been emplaced by Tertiary volcanism. Tertiary flows of pyroclastic debris, and vitrophyres of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite composition blanket much of the area. The property contains structurally controlled epithermal gold and silver mineralization identified in four areas: Hero/Tag, Main, Northeast and Knob 32. The four areas have generally similar geology and mineralization with precious metals mineralization spatially associated with the contact between granodiorite and overlying tuff. Gold mineralization occurs with low-temperature silica, chalcedony and pyrite. The Main, Northeast, and Knob 32 deposits appear to be part of the Hero/Tag deposit, though structurally displaced.
The principal low-grade zone that essentially encompassed all the mineralization is tabular and dips gently to the southeast. There appear to be two main styles of mineralization based on mapping, sampling, and statistics. There is a broad, low-grade zone surrounding higher-grade material. The principal host is the tuff in which the low-grade precious metal mineralization is represented by pervasive and intense silicification. The underlying granodiorite also contains a low-grade disseminated style of mineralization with higher grade silicified breccias occurring generally as stockwork within it. Generally, the granodiorite has higher grade and is not silicified. Any silicification is restricted to adjacent veins and veinlets, occasionally being discrete veins as were exploited historically, but also resulting in a large-tonnage stockwork. All of the tuff was altered by epithermal solutions; however, much of the granodiorite is unaltered. High-grade material includes multi-episodic chalcedonic silica veins and breccias.
On November 11, 2003, Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada completed a third-party technical study for the Corporation. Using data from one underground channel sample, 245 reverse circulation drill holes and 11 diamond drill holes totaling 95,466 feet, mineralized material above a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton was estimated at 38.1 million tons grading 0.018 ounces of gold per ton and 0.16 ounces of silver per ton.
Yellow Pine
The Yellow Pine gold project, consisting of 17 patented mining claims and covering about 304 acres, is located in central Idaho, 60 miles east of McCall in Valley County.
On November 7, 2003, the Corporation, through Idaho Gold Resources LLC ("Idaho Gold"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Corporation, entered into an Option to Purchase Agreement with Bradley Mining Company for a nine year option to purchase 100% of Yellow Pine for $1,000,000. Idaho Gold made an option payment of $100,000 upon execution of the agreement and the agreement calls for Idaho Gold to make nine yearly payments of $100,000 on or before each anniversary date of the agreement, for a total option payment price of $1,000,000. If Idaho Gold exercises its option to purchase the project, all option payments shall be applied as a credit against the purchase price of $1,000,000. Idaho Gold has the right to terminate the agreement at any time without penalty. Eleven of the claims are subject to an underlying 5% net smelter returns royalty.
Geology
The Yellow Pine Mining District is located within the Cretaceous age Idaho Batholith, near its eastern border and adjacent to the Meadow Creek fault zone. The gold deposits of the Yellow Pine district are
hosted primarily in the quartz monzonites of the Idaho batholith and within the major shear and fault zones that transect the district. Ore deposits also occur in the metasediments of a large roof pendant within the granitic rocks. Historic mining of the Yellow Pine and the Homestake open pits on the Yellow Pine property has depleted the oxide gold mineralization, but significant sulfide gold mineralization remains unmined.
Gold and antimony occur principally in veinlets, stockworks, fissure-fillings, and massive lenses. Gold appears to be associated with pyrite and arsenopyrite whereas silver is associated with antimony. The primary gold mineralization occurs within a zone of stockwork sulfide veinlets also containing stibnite, pyrite and arsenopyrite. The principal antimony mineral is stibnite. Tungsten occurs in the mineral scheelite. Deposits are characterized by argillic and sericitic alteration with some silicification.
The Meadow Creek fault and its subsidiary structures trend north and northeast across the district and are a major controlling factor on the regional mineralization. The Yellow Pine mine, the largest mineralized area, is located in the Meadow Creek fault hanging wall, where the fault strike changes from northerly to northeasterly and a zone of stockwork sulfide veining occurs. The mineralized zone is about 2,000 feet long by 700 feet wide with a vertical extent of up to about 1,000 feet. It is cone shaped with the narrower, bottom area of the cone indicating possible continuity of the mineralization at depth both down dip along the hanging wall of the Meadow Creek fault and to the northwest.
The Homestake area appears as a continuation to the northeast of the Yellow Pine zone. The two zones have some similarities as well as differences. The Homestake sulfide zone is also directly associated with the Meadow Creek fault. It appears however to have a somewhat different structural style from the Yellow Pine area. The mineralized zone is about 1,500 feet long by 600 feet wide and up to 350 feet vertically. It has an overall tabular shape with a true width of about 100 to 200 feet. Drill hole information indicates that the mineralization at Homestake is encountered in both the hanging wall of the Meadow Creek fault zone as well as the footwall. Gold grades tend to be quite a bit lower than at the Yellow Pine area. The Yellow Pine and Homestake sulfide zones may be interconnected.
Pincock, Allen & Holt, of Denver, Colorado, completed a third-party technical study for the Corporation on November 17, 2003. At an assay database for 538 drill holes totaling 120,922 feet of drilling was used to estimate mineralized material in the Yellow Pine and Homestake sulfide zones using a cutoff grade of 0.025 ounces of gold per ton. Mineralized material is estimated at 33.8 million tons averaging 0.066 ounces of gold per ton.
ITEM 3.