ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Detailed information is contained herein with respect to the Hycroft mine and the Paredones Amarillos, Mt. Todd, Awak Mas, Yellow Pine, Long Valley, Wildcat, Maverick Springs, Mountain View, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, Guadalupe de los Reyes and Amayapampa projects, and the properties acquired with the Corporation's December 2005 acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc. The Corporation holds the Hycroft mine through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Hycroft Lewis Mine, Inc.; Paredones Amarillos and Guadalupe de los Reyes are held through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Paredones Amarillos S.A. de C.V.; Mt. Todd is held through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Vista Gold Australia Pty Ltd., Awak Mas is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, PT Masmindo Dwi; the Yellow Pine project is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Idaho Gold Resources LLC.; Long Valley is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold California LLC; the Maverick Springs, Mountain View, Hasbrouck, Three Hills, and Wildcat projects are held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Vista Nevada Corp.; the properties acquired with the Corporation's acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc., are held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Victory Gold Inc.; and Amayapampa is held through its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Minera Nueva Vista S.A. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices, and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
Hycroft Mine
The Hycroft mine and related facilities are located 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. We acquired the Lewis mine in early 1987 and completed construction of the adjacent Crofoot mine project in April 1988. Mining operations at the Hycroft mine were suspended in December 1998, and the site was placed on care and maintenance. Gold production, from continued leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, the amount of gold recovered was not material, as expected. The mine is currently on care and maintenance. From inception in 1987 until suspension of mining operations in December 1998, the Hycroft mine produced over 1 million ounces of gold.
On December 13, 2005, we purchased the leasehold interest in the Lewis property at Hycroft as part of the acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc. See "-F.W. Lewis, Inc. Properties".
Operating Statistics
Operating statistics for the Hycroft mine for the period 2002 to 2006 were as follows:
(1)Ore processed means ore placed on pads but not necessarily leached during the year.
(2)Cash operating costs are composed of all direct mining expenses including inventory changes, refining and transportation costs, less by-product silver credits. Geology and Ore Reserves
The Hycroft mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The
volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert. The geological events have created a physical setting ideally suited to the open-pit, heap-leach mining operation at the Hycroft mine. The heap leach method is widely used in the southwestern United States and allows the economical treatment of oxidized low-grade ore deposits in large volumes.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 990 feet in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
The Crofoot and Lewis properties together comprise approximately 12,230 acres. The Crofoot property, originally held under two leases, is owned by Vista Gold subject to a 4% net profits interest retained by the former owners, and covers approximately 3,544 acres. The Lewis property, which virtually surrounds the Crofoot property, covers approximately 8,686 acres and was purchased by Vista Gold as part of the acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc. in December 2005. The mine is accessible by road and has access to adequate supplies of water and power.
Updated Feasibility Study
In January 2006, we announced results of an updated feasibility study for the possible restart of operations at the Hycroft Mine. The updated study was issued by Mine Development Associates ("MDA") of Reno, Nevada, a consulting firm, in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 guidelines. The study and verification of the data employed in the study was undertaken under the supervision of Mr. Neil Prenn, P. Eng., a qualified person independent of Vista Gold. The Hycroft resource estimate on which the feasibility study was based and which was used by MDA to calculate mineral reserves was prepared by Ore Reserves Engineering ("ORE') of Lakewood, Colorado, under the direction of Mr. Alan Noble, P. Eng., a qualified person independent of Vista Gold. The results of the ORE resource estimate, which was prepared in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 guidelines, showed the known Brimstone deposit at a cutoff grade of 0.005 ounces per ton cyanide-soluble gold contains an estimated 52.7 million tons of mineralized material at a grade of 0.019 ounces of gold per ton, and were previously reported by Vista Gold in a press release dated August 4, 2005.
Proven and probable mineral reserves were determined within a design pit based on a US$450 per ounce gold price employing a Lerchs-Grossman optimization. Gold recovery by heap leach is estimated at 57% for both proven and probable reserves. Drill spacing for proven reserves is 100 feet or less, and for probable reserves is between 100 and 200 feet. The results are summarized in the following table:
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Exploration
We believe there is significant potential to extend the oxide mineralization to the south, along strike, at both the Central Fault and Brimstone deposits, but the greatest upside lies in the largely unexplored sulfide mineralization below the Brimstone deposit, as well as higher grade intercepts along the Central Fault.
Current mineralized material at Brimstone is limited to the oxide cap of an apparently large but previously unexplored gold-bearing sulfide system. Two diamond drill holes, drilled in 1996 and earlier, intercepted mineralized sulfides averaging 0.023 ounces per ton gold and 0.5 ounces per ton silver over intervals exceeding 500 feet in thickness. In 1996, the Corporation also intercepted 30 feet of gold mineralization in drill hole 95-2728. This intercept assayed 0.155 ounces per ton gold at a true depth of 310 feet below surface. The hole terminated in this mineralization; the true width of the mineralization is not known.
Paredones Amarillos
Paredones Amarillos is located 40 miles southeast of the city of La Paz, in the Mexican state of Baja California Sur. The project area covers over 15,131 acres.
We acquired 100% of the project on August 29, 2002, from Viceroy Resource Corporation ("Viceroy"). To acquire the project, we paid cash of CDN $1.0 million and issued 303,030 equity units to Viceroy, and on August 29, 2003, we paid Viceroy the remaining CDN $0.5 million due pursuant to the acquisition contract (see also Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 6).
The Paredones Amarillos project has been a significant exploration target since the 1980s. In 1997, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. ("EBM") completed a final feasibility study for an open pit mine on the project. As a result of the subsequent decline in gold prices, start-up was postponed. EBM holds a 2% net profits interest on certain concessions of the project, subject to a cap of $2 million. Additionally, Minera Tepmin, S.A. de C.V., holds a 1% net smelter returns royalty on two concessions.
The project holds environmental authorizations for the purpose of the following: project development including access road, power line, telephone communications, and infrastructure to supply water; construction and operation of a tailings dam; disposal of tailings; construction of a mill; and installation of three pumping stations.
Geology
General geology consists of diorite roof pendants intruded by a granodiorite batholith with local low and high-angle fault zones. A north-east striking, south-east dipping low-angle fault zone is the main host of gold mineralization at Paredones Amarillos. Movement along this structure has been characterized as reverse, resulting from compression. Secondary, high-angle faulting is thought to control the higher-grade mineralization at the project.
The known gold mineralized material occupies an inverted U-shaped block with an approximate strike length of 3,600 feet east-west, a width of approximately 1,000 feet north-south, and a thickness of approximately 100 feet. The apex of the "U" is near the center of the proposed pit with the legs forming the east and west pit lobes.
Preliminary Feasibility Study
In September 2005, we announced the results of a preliminary feasibility study for the Paredones Amarillos project. A feasibility study was previously completed by EBM in 1997, and the new study was issued on
September 23, 2005, by MDA of Reno, Nevada, an independent consulting firm, in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 guidelines, under the supervision of Mr. Neil Prenn, P. Eng., a Qualified Person independent of Vista Gold. The new study was based in part on the EBM 1997 study. MDA was assisted in the effort by Resource Development Incorporated of Wheat Ridge, Colorado, in metallurgical testing and process redesign, and by WLR Consulting of Lakewood, Colorado, in mine design.
Proven and probable mineral reserves were determined within a proposed open pit mine, which was designed employing a Lerchs-Grossmann optimization technique based on U.S. $400 per ounce gold price. The results are summarized in the following table:
(1)Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Proven and Probable Reserves: The estimates of mineral reserves shown in this table have been prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101. The definitions of proven and probable reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, the disclosure of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to the SEC's reporting and disclosure requirements. Based on guidelines provided by the SEC, since we have obtained a preliminary feasibility study but not a bankable feasibility study with respect to the above, we are reporting no reserves under U.S. SEC standards.
The mineralization model used to estimate the mineral reserves was reported by us in a press release dated August 29, 2002, based on an independent technical report prepared by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, in compliance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101. According to the report, dated August 20, 2002, the mineralized material above 0.015 ounces of gold per ton cut-off grade was estimated to be 61.4 million tons at a grade of 0.031 ounces of gold per ton.
In late 2004 and in 2005, we conducted geologic mapping, soil and rock geochemistry and an induced polarization geophysical survey across the Tocopilla target 2.4 miles north of and on trend with the known Paredones Amarillos gold deposit. The results of the program outlined wide zones of weakly anomalous gold mineralization. We partially tested the target area with seven core drill holes in 2005, two of which intersected weak gold mineralization indicating the Paredones Amarillos mineralization extends into this area, but the discovery of economic gold mineralization is uncertain and more testing is warranted.
Mt. Todd
Effective March 1, 2006, we and our subsidiary Vista Gold Australia Pty Ltd. entered into agreements with Ferrier Hodgson, the Deed Administrators for Pegasus Gold Australia Pty Ltd. ("Pegasus"), the government of the Northern Territory of Australia and the JAAC and other parties named therein, subject to regulatory approvals, to purchase a 100% interest in the Mt. Todd gold mine (also known as the Yimuyn Manjerr gold mine) in the Northern Territory, Australia. Under these agreements, we are guarantor of the obligations of our subsidiary Vista Australia.
As part of the agreements, we agreed to pay Pegasus, AU$1.0 million ($739,600) and receive a transfer of the mineral leases and certain mine assets; and pay the Northern Territory's costs of management and
operation of the Mt. Todd site up to a maximum of approximately AU$375,000 (approximately $277,500) during the first year of the term (initial term is five years, subject to extensions), and assume site management and pay management and operation costs in following years. Additionally, we were to issue common shares with a value of CDN$1.0 million (amounting to 177,053 common shares) to the JAAC as consideration for the JAAC entering into the agreement and for rent for the use of the surface overlying the mineral leases until a decision is reached to begin production. Other agreement terms provide that we will undertake a technical and economic review of the mine and possibly form one or more joint ventures with the JAAC. In June 2006, the transactions contemplated under the agreements were completed and effective, with funds held in escrow released to the ultimate vendors and the common shares issued to the JAAC.
Geology
The Mt. Todd project is located 50 kilometers northwest of Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia. The project area covers 13,257 acres. The Mt. Todd gold mine is situated within the southeastern portion of the Early Proterozoic Pine Creek Geosyncline. The Batman deposit geology consists of a sequence of hornfelsed interbedded greywackes and shales with minor thin beds of felsic tuff. Bedding consistently strikes at 325o, dipping 40o to 60o to the southwest. Northerly trended sheeted quartz sulfide veins and joints striking at 0o to 20o and dipping 60o to the east are the major location for mineralization in the Batman deposit. The veins are 0.04 to 4 inches in thickness with an average thickness of around 0.4 inches and occur in sheets with up to six veins per horizontal foot. These sheeted veins are the main source of gold mineralization in the Batman deposit. In general, the Batman deposit is 4,800 to 5,100 feet in length by 1,200 to 1,500 feet in true width and 1,500 to 1,800 feet in known down-dip extension (the deposit is open along strike and at depth).
Based on a review of project files, our management believes that approximately 27.1 million short tons grading 0.031 gold ounces per ton and containing 826,000 ounces of gold were extracted between 1996 and the termination of mining in 2000. Processing was by a combination of heap-leach production from oxide ore and cyanidation of sulfide ore. The remaining mineralization consists of sulfide mineralization lying below and along strike of the existing open pit.
On June 26, 2006, we announced that an analysis of mineralized material was completed for the Batman deposit at on June 26, 2006, by Gustavson Associates, LLC ("Gustavson") of Boulder, Colorado, in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 standards under the direction of Mr. John Rozelle, an independent Qualified Person, utilizing standard industry software and resource estimation methodology. The report includes the results of 91,225 assay intervals from 730 drill holes (225 core, 435 reserve circulation and 70 rotary drill holes) done by BHP Resources Pty Ltd., Zapopan NL and Pegasus with assaying by Australia Assay Laboratories in Pine Creek and Alice Springs, Classic Comlabs in Darwin and Pegasus' onsite lab. Pegasus mined part of the Batman deposit from 1993 to 1997, and a joint venture comprising Multiplex Resources Pty Ltd. and General Gold Resources Ltd. mined the deposit from 1999 to 2000.
The deposit has a drill hole spacing that varies from 80 feet by 80 feet to 260-330 feet by 260-330 feet and generally averages 160 feet by 160 feet. All assaying was fire assay on 50-gram charges. It is the opinion of Gustavson that quality control and quality assurance methods employed by the various companies working at Mt. Todd were standard at the time of the work, and the work including quality control and quality assurance methods has been audited several times by independent consultants.
Based on the report, the mineralized material for the Batman deposit, above a 0.015 ounces of gold per ton cut-off grade, was estimated to be 62.1 million tons at a grade of 0.028 ounces of gold per ton.
A preliminary assessment was completed on December 29, 2006, by Gustavson in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 standards under the direction of John W. Rozelle, P.G., an independent qualified person. In undertaking the preliminary assessment, Gustavson considered the
economic and technical parameters associated with development of the mineralized material by open-pit mining. The study included a conceptual process flowsheet developed by Resource Development Inc. of Wheat Ridge, Colorado, which is based on preliminary testwork and includes a flotation circuit to recover a bulk sulfide concentrate, and further flotation to separate a copper sulfide concentrate that would contain about one-half of the gold and which would be shipped to a smelter. A pyrite concentrate containing about one-half of the gold would also be produced and this concentrate would be cyanide leached to recover the gold. The cyanide in the sulfide residue would be neutralized, following which the residue would be filtered to dry it, and then placed on a lined pad. MWH Australia Pty Ltd ("MWH") designed conceptual tailing disposal facilities, including utilizing the existing tailing facility, and estimated capital costs for these facilities. MWH also completed a closure study and cost estimate for closing the mine and facilities following resumption of production.
In the preliminary assessment, Gustavson assumed a 33,000 short ton-per-day (11.7 million short tons-per-year) ore production rate, resulting in a ten-year operating life. Overall gold recovery is estimated at 87% and copper recovery at 70%.
Startup capital is estimated by Gustavson at $264 million. Mining costs are estimated at $1.21 per tonne of material mined, processing costs are estimated at $6.48 per tonne of ore processed and general and administrative costs are estimated at $0.14 per tonne processed. Based on these preliminary numbers, a review of the project economics indicates that the project continues to look favorable.
An infill core drilling program is planned for early 2007 to attempt to increase the mineralized material in areas where the drill spacing is too wide to have confidence in the presence and grade of mineralized material within the planned pit. Additionally, in 2006, we applied for exploration rights to tenements totaling about 2,900 acres adjoining the mining tenements. If the rights are granted, we plan to begin exploration efforts of these lands during 2007.
Awak Mas
On May 27, 2005, we completed our acquisition of the Awak Mas gold deposit in Sulawesi, Indonesia, for a purchase price of $1.5 million. The acquisition of the Awak Mas Project involved the purchase, through the Corporation's wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold (Barbados) Corp. ("Vista Barbados"), of all of the outstanding shares of Salu Siwa Pty Ltd, an Australian company ("Salu Siwa") from the two owners of Salu Siwa: Weston Investments Pty Ltd., an Australian company ("Weston") and Organic Resource Technology Limited, an Australian company ("ORT"). Weston and ORT respectively owned 66% and 34% of the outstanding Salu Siwa shares. Salu Siwa in turn owns 99% of the outstanding shares of PT Masmindo Dwi, an Indonesian company ("PT Masmindo"), which is the direct holder of the Awak Mas Project. The remaining 1% of the outstanding PT Masmindo shares is held by ORT. Transfer of this remaining 1% to Vista Barbados is subject to any approvals, consents or other statutory requirements of the Indonesian authorities that will be required to effect the completion of such share purchase. This Project is held by Vista Gold through a contract of work ("CoW") with the Indonesian government.
Geology
The Awak Mas property is situated on the southern side of the Central Sulawesi Metamorphic Belt within a 30-mile long, north-northeast trending fault bounded block of basement metamorphic rocks and younger sediments. The property covers approximately 221,530 acres. The western margin of this block is represented by an easterly dipping thrust, whereas the eastern margin is defined by a major basement structure. Imbricate faulting has complicated the internal morphology of the block. The property is dominated by the late Cretaceous Latimojong Formation, consisting of phyllites, slates, basic to intermediate volcanics, limestone and schist representing a platform and/or fore arc trough flysch sequence. The Latimojong Formation overlies basement metamorphic rocks dominated by phyllites and slates. Both sequences have been intruded by late-stage plugs and stocks of diorite, monzonite and syenite.
To the east of the metamorphic block, basic intermediate intrusives, pyroclastics and volcanogenic sediments comprising the Mesozoic Lamasi Ophiolite Complex appear to have been obducted into a position effectively overlying the younger flyschoid sequence and basement metamorphics during continental accretion.
Gold mineralization is distinctly mesothermal in character, atypical of the more ubiquitous low temperature or epithermal precious metal mineralization within many island arc environments in Indonesia. Gold is associated with sulphur-poor, sodic-rich fluids introduced at a relatively late stage in the tectonic history. Albite-pyrite-silica-carbonate alteration, which accompanies gold deposition, clearly overprints the ductile fabric associated with deformation and metamorphism in the older basement lithologies.
The majority of gold mineralization on the property, including the Awak Mas deposit, is predominantly hosted within the flysch sequence, which typically dips at between 15o and 50o, generally towards the north. The majority of gold mineralization is associated with abundant quartz veining and silica-albite-pyrite alteration; however, the association of gold and quartz is not ubiquitous, with some vein zones appearing to be locally barren of mineralization.
Two main styles of mineralization are present. The first represents broad shallow dipping zones of sheeted and stockwork quartz veining and associated alteration that conform to the shear fabric, especially within the dark, graphitic mudstones. The other style consists of steeper dipping zones of quartz veining and breccias associated with high angle faults cutting both the flyschoid cover sequence and basement metamorphics.
Late-stage, north-northeast trending normal faults locally disrupt or offset mineralization. A surface layer of consolidated scree and colluvium averaging 1.8 to 2.4 feet (maximum 9 feet) in thickness veneers the deposit. The base of weak oxidation within the mineralized sequence typically is within 12 feet of surface.
In October 2004, RSG Global Pty Ltd of West Perth, Australia, an independent consultant, prepared an estimate of mineralized material for us based on the results of 85,030 assay intervals from 814 core and reverse circulation drill holes done by Battle Mountain Gold Company, Lone Star Exploration NL and Masmindo Mining Corporation Limited from 1991 through 1997 with assaying by Inchcape Testing Services. The results of the study showed the known Awak Mas deposit, at a cutoff grade of 0.015 ounces gold per ton, contains an estimated 52.6 million tons of mineralized material at a grade of 0.032 ounces of gold per ton. The Corporation believes the potential to expand the mineralized material is good, based on the Corporation's analysis of preliminary exploration results of previous operators.
A final feasibility study was completed by independent consultants in 1997 for Lone Star supporting a mining scenario of 3 million metric tons per year of ore. Independent valuations of the project were completed in 2000 and 2003 as well. Over $43 million has been spent on the project by previous operators.
During 2005, we initiated an exploration program designed to identify drill targets in outlying surface indications of gold mineralization. The program involved soil and rock geochemistry, drilling shallow test holes to obtain bedrock samples, geologic mapping and interpretation of results. In 2006, we completed a 13-hole diamond drill program totaling 8,440 feet that was designed to upgrade shows of mineralization into reportable amounts. We plan to prepare a new estimate of mineralized material, using an independent consultant, during 2007, as well as a feasibility study.
Yellow Pine
The Yellow Pine gold project is located in the Salmon River Mountains of central Idaho in an area of historical gold, antimony and tungsten mining known as the Stibnite or Yellow Pine Mining District. The district is located in Valley County about 60 miles east of McCall, Idaho, and 10 miles southeast of the small settlement of Yellow Pine, Idaho. The project consists of 17 patented mining claims covering about 304 acres.
On November 7, 2003, Vista Gold, through Idaho Gold Resources LLC ("Idaho Gold"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Vista Gold, entered into an Option to Purchase Agreement with Bradley Mining Company for a nine year option to purchase 100% of Yellow Pine for $1,000,000. Idaho Gold made an option payment of $100,000 upon execution of the agreement. The agreement calls for Idaho Gold to make nine more yearly payments of $100,000 on or before each anniversary date of the agreement, for a total option payment price of $1,000,000, and annual payments of $100,000 each were made in 2004, 2005 and 2006 (see Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 5). If Idaho Gold exercises its option to purchase the project, all option payments shall be applied as a credit against the purchase price of $1,000,000, Idaho Gold has the right to terminate the agreement at any time without penalty. Eleven of the claims are subject to an underlying 5% net smelter returns royalty.
Geology
The Yellow Pine Mining District is located within the Cretaceous age Idaho Batholith, near its eastern border and adjacent to the Meadow Creek fault zone. The gold deposits of the Yellow Pine district are hosted primarily in the quartz monzonites of the Idaho batholith and within the major shear and fault zones that transect the district. Ore deposits also occur in the metasediments of a large roof pendant within the granitic rocks. Historic mining of the Yellow Pine and the Homestake open pits on the Yellow Pine property has depleted the oxide gold mineralization, but significant sulfide gold mineralization remains unmined. Historically, the mine has produced about 700,000 ounces of gold from a combination of byproduct gold from tungsten and antimony mining and more recent heap-leach production from oxide ore.
Gold and antimony occur principally in veinlets, stockworks, fissure-fillings, and massive lenses. Gold appears to be associated with pyrite and arsenopyrite whereas silver is associated with antimony. The primary gold mineralization occurs within a zone of stockwork sulfide veinlets also containing stibnite, pyrite and arsenopyrite. The principal antimony mineral is stibnite. Tungsten occurs in the mineral scheelite. Deposits are characterized by argillic and sericitic alteration with some silicification.
The Meadow Creek fault and its subsidiary structures trend north and northeast across the district and are a major controlling factor on the regional mineralization. The Yellow Pine mine, the largest mineralized area, is located in the Meadow Creek fault hanging wall, where the fault strike changes from northerly to northeasterly and a zone of stockwork sulfide veining occurs. The mineralized zone is about 2,000 feet long by 700 feet wide with a vertical extent of up to about 1,000 feet. It is cone shaped with the narrower, bottom area of the cone indicating possible continuity of the mineralization at depth both down dip along the hanging wall of the Meadow Creek fault and to the northwest.
The Homestake area appears as a continuation to the northeast of the Yellow Pine zone. The two zones have some similarities as well as differences. The Homestake sulfide zone is also directly associated with the Meadow Creek fault. It appears however to have a somewhat different structural style from the Yellow Pine area. The mineralized zone is about 1,500 feet long by 600 feet wide and up to 350 feet vertically. It has an overall tabular shape with a true width of about 100 to 200 feet. Drill hole information indicates that the mineralization at Homestake is encountered in both the hanging wall of the Meadow Creek fault zone as well as the footwall. Gold grades tend to be quite a bit lower than at the Yellow Pine area. The Yellow Pine and Homestake sulfide zones may be interconnected.
Pincock, Allen & Holt ("PAH"), of Denver, Colorado, completed a third-party technical study for us on November 17, 2003. At an assay database for 538 drill holes totaling 120,922 feet of drilling was used to estimate mineralized material in the Yellow Pine and Homestake sulfide zones using a cutoff grade of 0.025 ounces of gold per ton. Mineralized material is estimated at 33.8 million tons averaging 0.066 ounces of gold per ton.
On November 30, 2006, PAH completed a preliminary assessment in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 standards under the direction of Richard Lambert, P.E. and Barton Stone, P.G., both
independent qualified persons. In undertaking the preliminary assessment, PAH considered the economic and technical parameters associated with development of the mineralization by open-pit mining. The study, based on PAH's review of previous technical studies and their own work, determined the best treatment approach would be an on-site plant to produce a flotation concentrate that would be refined off-site. The potential development would produce an estimated 1.9 million ounces of gold over a 10-year life. PAH estimated the total capital cost over the project life to be $170 million and preproduction capital to be $150 million.
Long Valley
The Long Valley gold project is located in the Inyo National Forest, about 7 miles east of the town of Mammoth Lakes, in Mono County, California. The property consists of 95 contiguous, unpatented mining claims that cover an area of approximately 1,800 acres.
We have an option to acquire 100% of the Long Valley project from Standard Industrial Minerals, Inc. ("Standard"). Under the terms of the option agreement, we would pay Standard $750,000 over five years, with annual payments to be due as follows: $100,000 due on each of January 15, 2003, 2004, and 2005; $200,000 due on January 15, 2006, and $250,000 due on January 15, 2007. We have made the payments for 2003 through 2006 (see Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 6), and in January 2007, we made the final payment of $250,000 and exercised our option to purchase the property, which will be held through Vista Gold California LLC, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Vista Gold.
During the period of 1994 through 1997, Royal Gold, Inc. ("Royal") drilled 615 reverse circulation and 10 core holes at the Long Valley property. During this time, Royal also completed metallurgical investigations, preliminary engineering studies, including resource estimations, and initiated baseline-type environmental studies of the biological, water and archeological resources of the area. We have acquired all related data from Royal in exchange for a 1% net smelter returns royalty to Royal. The database contains 896 drill holes, totaling 268,275 feet. The majority of holes were drilled using reverse circulation methods. Gold was primarily analyzed by fire assay, with grade determinations by atomic absorption.
Geology
The Long Valley project claims are contained entirely within the early Pleistocene-age Long Valley Caldera, which has been dated at about 760,000 years old. The caldera is an elongated east-west oval depression measuring some 10 miles by 20 miles and is related to eruption of the Bishop Tuff, which is covered by younger rocks within the caldera.
The Long Valley gold mineralization is located near the center of the caldera and is underlain by lithologic units related to the caldera formation and its subsequent resurgence. Associated with resurgent doming is a sequence of interbedded volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks which were deposited in a lacustrine setting within the caldera. These rocks consist of sediment (siltstones through conglomerates) and debris-flow deposits, with local deposits of intercalated silica sinter and rhyolite flows and dikes. All of these lithologies have been altered and/or mineralized to variable degrees. Intruding the generally flat-lying lake sediments are several rhyolite domes that have been dated from 200,000 to 300,000 years in age.
The north-south trending Hilton Creek fault zone appears to define the eastern limit of the resurgent dome within the central part of the Long Valley Caldera and extends outside the caldera to the south. Offset along this fault appears to be variable and suggests that fault activity along this zone may be episodic in nature.
Gold and silver mineralization at Long Valley appears to fall under the general classification of an epithermal, low sulfidation-type deposit. Several areas, termed the North, Central, South, Southeast and Hilton Creek zones, on the Long Valley property are mineralized with low grades of gold and silver. The mineralized zones are generally north-south trending, up to 8,000 feet in length with widths ranging from
500 feet to 1,500 feet. The tabular bodies are generally flat-lying or have a shallow easterly dip. Mineralization is typically from 50 to 200 feet thick and, in the South and Southeast zones, is exposed at or very near the surface. The top of the Hilton Creek zone is covered by 20 to 50 feet of alluvium. The majority of the mineralization discovered to date is located in the Hilton Creek zone.
Gold and silver mineralization is quite continuous throughout the zones and is well defined above a cut-off grade of 0.010 gold ounces per ton. Within the continuous zones of low-grade gold mineralization (above 0.010 gold ounces per ton) are numerous zones of higher grade mineralization above 0.050 gold ounces per ton, particularly in the Hilton Creek zone, which may relate to zones of enhanced structural preparation. Mineralized zones typically correlate with zones of moreintense clay alteration or argillization and/or silicification.
Based on a third-party technical study completed February 20, 2003, by MDA of Reno, Nevada, the Long Valley project contains approximately 68.3 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.018 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton.
Wildcat
Wildcat is located about 35 miles northwest of Lovelock and 26 miles south of our Hycroft mine in Pershing County, Nevada. The project consists of 74 unpatented claims and 4 patented claims.
During September and October 2003, we concluded due diligence reviews and executed formal purchase agreements to acquire the Wildcat project and the associated exploration data in three separate transactions. On September 23, 2003, we purchased 71 unpatented mining claims from Monex Exploration, a partnership, for $200,000 on signing and $300,000 on August 11, 2004. On commencement of commercial production, we will make a one-time production payment in the amount of $500,000. Thirteen of the claims are subject to an underlying 0.4% net smelter returns royalty, and the remaining 58 claims are subject to an underlying 1% net smelter returns royalty.
On October 12, 2003, we purchased a 100% interest in the Vernal unpatented mining claim from David C. Mough and Jody Ahlquist Mough for $50,000 on signing and $50,000 on October 1, 2004, for a total consideration of $100,000.
On October 28, 2003, we purchased four patented mining claims and exploration data from Sagebrush Exploration, Inc. ("Sagebrush") for 50,000 Common Shares of Vista Gold issued and delivered to Sagebrush upon the closing of the transaction. The four patented claims are subject to an underlying net smelter returns royalty of 1% for gold production between 500,000 and 1,000,000 ounces, increasing to 2% on production in excess of 1,000,000 ounces.
Geology
Wildcat lies in the Seven Troughs Range which is underlain by Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary rocks and has been intruded by Cretaceous granodiorite. Volcanic domes and plugs of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite have been emplaced by Tertiary volcanism. Tertiary flows of pyroclastic debris, and vitrophyres of rhyolite, quartz latite, trachyte, and andesite composition blanket much of the area. The property contains structurally controlled epithermal gold and silver mineralization identified in four areas: Hero/Tag, Main, Northeast and Knob 32. The four areas have generally similar geology and mineralization with precious metals mineralization spatially associated with the contact between granodiorite and overlying tuff. Gold mineralization occurs with low-temperature silica, chalcedony and pyrite. The Main, Northeast, and Knob 32 deposits appear to be part of the Hero/Tag deposit, though structurally displaced.
The principal low-grade zone that essentially encompassed all the mineralization is tabular and dips gently to the southeast. There appear to be two main styles of mineralization based on mapping, sampling, and statistics. There is a broad, low-grade zone surrounding higher-grade material. The principal host is the tuff in which the low-grade precious metal mineralization is represented by pervasive and intense
silicification. The underlying granodiorite also contains a low-grade disseminated style of mineralization with higher grade silicified breccias occurring generally as stockwork within it. Generally, the granodiorite has higher grade and is not silicified. Any silicification is restricted to adjacent veins and veinlets, occasionally being discrete veins as were exploited historically, but also resulting in a large-tonnage stockwork. All of the tuff was altered by epithermal solutions; however, much of the granodiorite is unaltered. High-grade material includes multi-episodic chalcedonic silica veins and breccias.
On November 11, 2003, MDA of Reno, Nevada completed a third-party technical study for Vista Gold. Using data from one underground channel sample, 245 reverse circulation drill holes and 11 diamond drill holes totaling 95,466 feet, mineralized material above a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton was estimated at 38.1 million tons grading 0.018 ounces of gold per ton and 0.16 ounces of silver per ton.
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Maverick Springs
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. The property consists of 86 claims with a total area of approximately 3,900 acres.
On October 7, 2002, we completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project from Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont") and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont's wholly-owned subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited ("Newmont Capital"). To acquire the interest in Maverick Springs, we paid cash of $250,000 and issued 141,243 equity units to Newmont, each unit comprised of one common share and one two-year warrant. Newmont retained a 1.5% net smelter returns royalty, and on October 7, 2003, we issued to Newmont 122,923 Common Shares and 122,923 warrants to purchase Common Shares. In addition, pursuant to acquisition agreement terms we completed 34,060 feet of drilling as of October 7, 2004, and must complete an additional 15,940 feet of drilling before October 7, 2006. We may terminate this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont has a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the Maverick Springs project, by paying to us twice the amount that we have spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont exercises this right, Newmont will relinquish its 1.5% net smelter returns royalty. This one-time right expired 60 days after receipt of data on the property from us, which data was required to be delivered within 30 days of October 7, 2006. In January 2007, Newmont informed us that it would not be exercising this right. (See also Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 5).
Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement (the "Artemis lease"), between Newmont and Artemis Exploration Company. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001, and the key terms include: payment of advanced minimum royalties of $50,000 on October 1, 2003, (this has been paid) and advanced minimum royalties of $100,000 on October 1, 2004, (this has been paid), $100,000 on October 1, 2005 (this has been paid) and each year thereafter while the agreement is in effect; work commitments of 6,400 feet of exploration drilling, on or before October 1 in each of 2002 (extended by agreement to November 15, 2002), 2003 and 2004 (these commitments have been met), a preliminary economic evaluation to be conducted by October 1, 2004 which was extended to April 7, 2005 (this has been completed); and a net smelter returns royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On June 9, 2003, we entered into an agreement granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. ("SSRI") an option to acquire our interest in the silver mineralized material hosted in the Maverick Springs project. We will retain our 100% interest in the gold mineralized material. The agreement with SSRI is subject to the terms of the purchase agreement between Newmont and Vista Gold. Under the agreement, SSRI was to pay $1.5 million over four years, of which $949,823 was paid to us in 2003, $428,481 in 2004 and $144,285 in 2005, completing the $1.5 million obligation. Since SSRI has satisfied the $1.5 million obligation, all costs
incurred for Maverick Springs are now being shared by the two corporations as stated below. SSRI and Vista Gold have formed a committee to jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. We are the operator and have a 45% vote on the committee, and SSRI has a 55% vote. Since SSRI has completed its $1.5 million in payments, future costs will be shared by the two corporations on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Vista Gold 45% / SSRI 55%, subject to standard dilution provisions. (See also Consolidated Financial Statements-Notes 6 and 21).
In November 2002, we completed a 7,020-foot drill program on the Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material.
In October 2003, we completed a 14-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling 14,020 feet, in October 2004, we completed a 13-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling 13,020 feet and August 2006, we completed a 18-hole reverse circulation drill program totaling approximately 16,000 feet. Intercepts indicate the potential for bulk-mineable gold-silver mineralization.
Geology
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30o to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongate in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Mineralization consists of micron-sized silver and gold with related pyrite, stibnite and arsenic sulfides. It is usually associated with intense fracturing and brecciation, with or without accompanying whole-rock silicification or stockwork quartz.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulfides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Based on a third-party technical study completed on April 13, 2004, by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Maverick Springs project contains approximately 69.6 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.01 ounces of gold per ton and 1.0 ounce of silver per ton at a silver-equivalent cut-off grade of 1.0 ounce of silver per ton. A 16,000 foot drill program is planned for 2006.
On July 30, 2006, Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously, and reporting drilling completed in 2004.
Mountain View
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property currently consists of 127 claims with a total area of approximately 2,360 acres.
Our acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest in the Mountain View property, we paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units, each unit comprised of one common share and a two-year warrant, to Newmont Capital, and Newmont Capital retains a 1.5% net smelter returns royalty. In addition, we completed 8,055 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004, as required by the underlying agreement. We may terminate this agreement at any time. After October 7, 2006, Newmont Capital has a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the project, by paying to us twice the amount that we have spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont Capital exercises this right, Newmont Capital will relinquish its 1.5% net smelter returns royalty This one-time right expired 60 days after receipt of data on the property from us, which data was required to be delivered within 30 days of October 7, 2006. In January 2007, Newmont informed us that it would not be exercising this right. (see also Consolidated Financial Statements -Note 6).
Newmont Capital's interest in the Mountain View property is subject to an underlying lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the underlying lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% net smelter returns royalty during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the net smelter returns royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest of the underlying lease. A 1% net smelter returns royalty also applies to certain other claims.
We completed a five-hole reverse circulation program totaling 4,003 feet in November 2003. The results indicate the presence of a new zone of bulk mineralization approximately 200 feet east of the known core of mineralization. We completed 4,070 feet of reverse circulation drilling in 2004, and the results indicate potential bulk-mineable gold mineralization and the down-dip extension of higher-grade gold mineralization.
Geology
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The gold mineralization is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Based on a third-party technical study completed December 17, 2002, by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Mountain View project contains approximately 23.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.013 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.006 ounces of gold per ton.
On July 31, 2006, Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously, and reporting drilling completed in 2003 and 2004.
Hasbrouck
The Hasbrouck property is located in southwestern Nevada about 5 miles south-southwest of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, adjacent to U.S. Highway 95 and approximately half-way between Reno and Las Vegas. The property consists of 22 patented lode mining claims and 61 unpatented lode claims that cover an area of approximately 1,300 acres.
On May 23, 2003, we executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which includes both the Hasbrouck property and the Three Hills property, which lies approximately 4.5 miles to the north-northwest. Terms of the purchase included a $50,000 cash payment on signing and $200,000 or, at our discretion, the equivalent in our Common Shares one year after signing. In June and July 2004, we issued to Newmont Capital an aggregate 50,475 Common Shares at a deemed per share price of $3.96. The value of the Common Shares was based on the average AMEX closing price of the Common Shares over the ten-trading-day period ending one day before the first anniversary of the agreement. Newmont Capital, at its option, will retain either: (a) a 2% net smelter returns royalty in each project together with the right to a $500,000 cash payment at the start of commercial production at either project and a further $500,000 cash payment if, after the start of commercial production, the gold price averages $400 per ounce or more for any three-month period; or (b) the right to acquire 51% of either or both projects. The latter right would be exercisable only after the later of four years or the time when we have incurred aggregate expenditures of $1.0 million to acquire, explore and hold the projects and would include Newmont Capital paying to us cash equaling 200% of the expenditures made by us on the related property. In this event, Newmont Capital would become operator of a joint venture with us, and both parties would fund the project through to a production decision. Our contribution to the joint venture during this period is capped at $5.0 million, $3.0 million of which Newmont Capital would finance for us and recover, with interest, exclusively from related project cash flows. We would also grant Newmont Capital a right of first offer with respect to subsequent sale of the projects by Vista Gold. An additional 1.5% net smelter royalty on the Hasbrouck property is held by a private party.
Geology
The property is located on Hasbrouck Mountain, which is thought to lie along the western edge of a caldera. The mountain is underlain by gently dipping ash-flow, air-fall and waterlain tuffs and volcaniclastic sediments of the Miocene Siebert Formation. Several occurrences of chalcedonic sinter deposits occur near the summit of the mountain. Gold and silver mineralization in the Hasbrouck deposit appears to have formed relatively close to the paleo-surface in an epithermal, hot spring environment. The mineralization is concentrated in the Siebert Formation, in units stratigraphically below the chalcedonic sinter deposits that are exposed near the top of Hasbrouck Mountain. Two zones of mineralization are presently defined. The "Main" zone includes the bulk of mineralization at Hasbrouck, while the small "South Adit" zone lies 700 to 1000 feet to the south of the "Main" zone.
A third-party technical study was completed for us by MDA of Reno, Nevada on August 29, 2003. The Hasbrouck study was developed using data from 54,339 feet of drilling, principally comprised of 105 reverse circulation holes totaling 44,400 feet and 22 rotary drill holes totaling 8,980 feet. The drilling database was compiled from work performed by FMC Gold Co., Cordex Syndicate and Franco Nevada Inc. between 1974 and 1988. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton is 20.3 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton and 0.32 ounces of silver per ton.
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Three Hills
Three Hills is located in southwestern Nevada about 1 mile west of the town of Tonopah in Esmeralda County, Nevada, and about 4.5 miles northwest of the Hasbrouck property described above. Three Hills consists of 15 unpatented lode claims totaling approximately 201 acres.
On May 23, 2003, we executed a purchase agreement with Newmont Capital, which included both the Hasbrouck and the Three Hills property. The terms of this agreement are detailed under the Hasbrouck description above.
Geology
Three Hills is located in the Walker Lane structural domain of the Basin and Range physiographic province. It is in an area of structural disruption resulting from a series of orogenic events occurring in Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic times. Basin and Range high-angle normal faults control the mineralization at Three Hills, where they cut the Siebert Formation. Gold mineralization occurs in a zone of pervasive silicification and in the Siebert Formation and the upper 10 to 30 feet of the Fraction Tuff. The contact between these two units contains consistently higher grades of gold and is more commonly argillized than silicified.
MDA of Reno, Nevada, completed a third-party technical study for Vista Gold on August 29, 2003. The Three Hills study included data from 62,874 feet of drilling, comprised of 183 reverse circulation holes totaling 54,657 feet, 45 air-track and rotary holes totaling 6,320 feet and 9 diamond drill holes totaling 1,897 feet. The drilling was completed by Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Eastfield Resources, Saga Exploration and Cordex Syndicate between 1974 and 1996. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cut-off of 0.01 ounces of gold per ton was 5.7 million tons with an average grade of 0.023 ounces of gold per ton.
On August 14, 2006, MDA of Reno, Nevada, issued a technical report describing the work done by it previously.
Guadalupe de los Reyes
Guadalupe de los Reyes is located in the western foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountain range, approximately 68 miles by air (124 miles by road) north of the coastal city of Mazatln, and 19 miles by road southeast of the town of Cosal in Sinaloa State, Mexico. The mineral concessions include two titled concessions for exploitation and three titled concessions for exploration, all covering about 1,475 acres.
On August 1, 2003, we executed an agreement to acquire a 100% interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold project and a data package associated with the project and general area, for aggregate consideration of $1.4 million and a 2% net smelter returns royalty. During a due diligence period leading up to the signing of the purchase agreement, we made payments to the owner, Sr. Enrique Gaitan Maumejean, totaling $100,000, and upon exercising our option to complete the purchase, paid an additional $200,000. On August 4, 2004, we issued 138,428 Common Shares to Sr. Gaitan in satisfaction of the scheduled payment of $500,000, which could be made in cash or Common Shares at our discretion. An additional $500,000 in cash will be paid by way of $100,000 payments on each of the second through sixth anniversaries of the signing of the formal agreement, with the outstanding balance becoming due upon commencement of commercial production. Payments of $100,000 were made in each of 2005 and 2006. A 2% net smelter returns royalty will be paid to the previous owner and may be acquired by us at any time for $1.0 million. We retain the right to terminate the agreement at any time.
Geology
Guadalupe de los Reyes occurs in a late Cretaceous-to Tertiary-age volcanic sequence of rocks. Gold and silver mineralization has been found along a series of northwesterly and west-northwesterly trending structural zones. Mineralization in these zones is typical of low sulfidation epithermal systems. Eight main
target areas have been identified along three major structural zones. Several of these targets have bulk tonnage potential which may be amenable to open-pit mining, including the El Zapote, San Miguel, Guadalupe Mine, Tahonitas, and Noche Buena zones. The El Zapote target occurs in the Mariposa-El Zapote-Tahonitas structural zone on the western side of the project area and has been mapped for a distance of 2 miles. The El Zapote deposit is one of three deposits found along this structural zone, with the inactive underground Mariposa Mine 0.6 miles to the northwest and the Tahonitas prospect 0.3 miles to the southeast. The Guadalupe zone occurs as the northwest extension of the mineralized structures that were developed by underground mining along approximately 3,280 feet of the veins and to some 1,300 feet deep. The Guadalupe zone is found in the northeast portion of the area and has produced the majority of precious metals within the district. The San Miguel and Noche Buena zones are enclosed by the same northwestern trending structure in between the El Zapote-Mariposa and the Guadalupe structures.
A third-party technical study was performed for Vista Gold and reported on July 17, 2003, by Pincock, Allen & Holt, of Denver, Colorado, using assay data from 381 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 118,633 feet. The drilling was performed by Northern Crown Mines Limited from 1993 to 1997. Based on this study, mineralized material above a cutoff grade of 0.016 ounces of gold per ton is 7.0 million tons averaging 0.040 ounces of gold per ton and 0.67 ounces of silver per ton.
F.W. Lewis, Inc. Properties
On December 13, 2005, our subsidiary Victory Gold Inc. ("Victory Gold"), acquired all of the outstanding shares of F.W. Lewis, Inc., the assets of which include 55 mineral properties in Nevada and Colorado. The acquisition was made by exercise of a purchase option originally held by Century Gold LLC ("Century Gold") of Spring Creek, Nevada. Century Gold assigned the option to Victory Gold pursuant to an assignment and assumption agreement effective December 9, 2005. Under the terms of the assignment agreement, we paid Century Gold $150,000 in cash and also reimbursed Century Gold for the $250,000 it paid the owners of F.W. Lewis, Inc. toward the option exercise price of $5.1 million. In addition, we issued to Century Gold 250,000 Common Shares in Vista Gold valued at $1.218 million. To complete the exercise of this option, we paid the owners of F.W. Lewis, Inc., the remaining $4.85 million of the outstanding purchase price. Century Gold retained a 100% interest in two properties and a 50% interest in two other properties. The 53 properties retained by Vista Gold include a total of 9,280 acres of patented and 11,616 acres of unpatented mineral claims, the majority having gold, silver or copper discoveries or old mines located on the properties.
F.W. Lewis, Inc. (now owned by our subsidiary Victory Gold) owns a production royalty interest in the Hycroft Mine. The production royalty (applying to approximately 70% of the reported reserves) is 5% Net Smelter Return ("NSR") on gold and 7.5% NSR on other minerals, including silver. The production royalty on gold escalates on ore over 0.05 ounces per ton (opt) to a maximum of 10% NSR on ore grades over 0.14 opt. With the acquisition of F.W. Lewis, Inc., we are no longer subject to payment of this royalty to an outside party.
Included in the package (100% retained by us) is a property in the Battle Mountain, Nevada Mining District, adjacent to and on trend with Newmont's Phoenix-Fortitude property, although similar mineralization cannot be assured. This property is subject to pre-existing agreements with Madison Minerals Inc. (formerly Madison Enterprises Corp.) and Great American Minerals Exploration (Nevada) LLC. These agreements involve payments of $3,000 per month minimum royalty payments to Victory Gold, minimum exploration commitments of $250,000 per year, and an option to purchase the property for $2.0 million payable by December 31, 2007, with a retained 5% gross royalty on gold and a 4% NSR royalty on other metals, and with annual advance minimum royalty payments of $60,000 commencing on exercise of the purchase option. Madison and Great American also have an option to purchase the royalties from Victory Gold for $4.0 million in the first year following the date of exercise of the purchase option and escalating by $500,000 each year thereafter.
Amayapampa
The Amayapampa project is located 186 miles southeast of La Paz in the Chayanta Municipality, Bustillos Province, Department of Potosi, in southwestern Bolivia. Access is via 167 miles of paved road from La Paz to Machacamarca near Oruro, followed by 62 miles of gravel road to Lagunillas, then nine miles of dirt road to Amayapampa. The Amayapampa property is situated within the moderately rugged Eastern Cordilleran region of Bolivia with elevations at the property varying from 12,300 to 13,450 feet above sea level. Amayapampa consists of 24 mining concessions covering 1,989 acres plus an additional 16,803 acres in regional exploration and exploitation concessions. The project is currently on care and maintenance.
The Corporation acquired the Amayapampa gold project, in Bolivia, in 1996. On March 13, 2007, the Corporation entered into an agreement with Luzon Minerals Ltd. ("Luzon") to sell the Amayapampa project to Luzon. This agreement replaces all prior agreements between the Corporation and Luzon, as previously reported, with respect to the Amayapampa project. See "Subsequent Event" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Subsequent Event". The terms of the agreement with Luzon were amended in January, July and November of 2005.
Geology
The Amayapampa deposit underlies a north-northwest trending ridge approximately 0.3 miles east of the town of Amayapampa. The deposit is defined by about 48 diamond drill holes; 96 reverse-circulation drill holes; and 315 underground channel samples totaling 17,585 feet from more than 200 accessible cross-cuts in 43 different levels and sub-levels extending over a vertical distance of 682 feet. The deposit is approximately 1,970 feet in strike length, 98 to 230 feet in width and has an overall dip of the mineralized envelope of 80 to 90 degrees west. The depth extent of continuous mineralization is in excess of 656 feet to about the 12,795-foot elevation, although some mineralization is present below this depth. Gold occurs free and associated with sulfides in a structural zone in which quartz veins were emplaced then sheared prior to introduction of sulfides and gold mineralizing solutions.
The host rocks are composed of Ordovician black shales, sandstones, and siltstones, which were weakly metamorphosed to argillites, quartzites, and siltites, respectively. The Amayapampa project is located along the east flank of a north-south trending regional anticline near the top of the Ordovician sequence. Bedding dips are steep at 60 to 80 degrees west, with the east limb of the anticline being overturned and thus, also dipping steeply west.
The mineralized envelope is best described as a structural zone, in which quartz veins were emplaced along a preferential fracture direction.
Most faults, shears and fractures are north-northeast to north-northwest trending and steeply dipping, both east and west, at 60 to 90 degrees. Quartz veins predominantly dip east. Locally, within the zone of mineralization, flat, thrust-like faults are present, which have offset quartz veins to a minor extent. These flat faults, commonly west-dipping at 40 to 45 degrees, can not generally be mapped outside of the main structural zone that hosts the gold mineralization. A west dipping, 45-degree fault projects into the pit on the northeast side of the deposit and was intersected by two vertical, geotechnical core holes. The base of mineralization may also be slightly offset by a similar west-dipping, 45-degree fault.
Oxidation effects are pervasive from the surface to depths of 66 to 98 feet, with only partial oxidization below those depths. Hydrothermal alteration effects evident in fresh rock are minor, and occur as coarse sericite (muscovite) in thin (0.08 to 0.20 inch) selvages along some quartz veins. In addition, chlorite is present in and adjacent to some quartz veins, but this presence may be a product of low-grade metamorphism. Alteration effects are minimal overall, except for surface oxidization.
Mineralization is composed of quartz veins and sulfides and both constitute a visual guide to ore. Quartz veins are a locus for gold mineralization. Quartz veins are typically a few centimeters to two feet in width and commonly occur as sub-parallel vein sets. The strike extent can be 164 to 246 feet or more for any one
vein or vein set, but the dip extent is not as well established and probably ranges up to 66 to 98 feet. Multiple vein sets are present in the overall mineralized envelope and veins commonly pinch and swell along strike and down dip.
Sulfide mineralization, hosted by multiple fractures is composed of predominantly pyrite within and adjacent to quartz veins. The total sulfide concentration for the overall mineralized zone is estimated at 3% to 5%. Petrographic examination of the sulfide mineralization shows pyrite to dominate at over 95% of the total sulfides; arsenopyrite is also present, as are minor amounts of chalcopyrite, galena, sphalerite, stibnite and tetrahedrite. Gold is present as free gold in association with pyrite, on fractures within pyrite and attached to the surface of pyrite and is often visible as discrete grains on fractures in quartz and argillite. Gold grains exhibit a large size-range, with much of the gold being relatively coarse at 40 to 180 microns. All gold grains display irregular shapes with large surface areas. No gold was noted to be encapsulated in either quartz or sulfide. The content of gold grains was verified as over 97% gold by scanning-electron-microprobe analysis.
District-scale exploration potential exists for defining styles of gold mineralization similar to Amayapampa, which could be developed as satellite ore bodies. In addition, at least 15 drill holes beneath the planned Amayapampa pit suggest the presence of four higher-grade shoots.
An updated study containing an estimate of mineralization for the Amayapampa project was completed on September 21, 2006, by GR Technical Services Ltd. of Calgary, Alberta and Giroux Consultants Limited of Vancouver, British Columbia, independent consultants, in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101. The resource estimate was completed in September 2005 for Luzon under the direction of Mr. G. H. Giroux, P.Eng., MA Sc., an independent qualified person, utilizing standard industry software and resource estimation methodology. The mineral resource data base contains 10,264 assay intervals from 45 core drill holes, 96 reverse circulation drill holes, and underground channel samples done by Da Capo Resources Ltd. and Vista between 1994 through 1997, with assaying by the Bondar Clegg laboratory in Oruro, Bolivia. The results of the study indicates that the known Amayapampa deposit, at a cutoff grade of 0.012 ounces gold per ton, contains an estimated 15,697,000 short tons at a grade of 0.042 gold ounces per ton.
Luzon continues to conduct technical studies to lead to the development of the project.
ITEM 3.