ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The following scientific and technical disclosures about Mt Todd have been reviewed and approved by Mr. John W. Rozelle, Senior Vice President of Vista. Mr. Rozelle is a qualified person as defined by NI 43-101.
All dollar amounts in ITEM 2. are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated
Cautionary Note to Investors: This section and other sections of this annual report on Form 10-K contain the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources,” “inferred mineral resources,” “proven mineral reserves,” and “probable mineral reserves” as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. Please note the following regarding these terms:
·
“Measured mineral resources” and “indicated mineral resources” - We advise investors that although these terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, these terms are not defined in SEC Industry Guide 7 and the SEC does not normally permit such terms to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
·
“Inferred mineral resources” - We advise investors that although this term is recognized by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize it. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic, technical and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under
Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of a feasibility study or pre-feasibility study, except in rare cases. The SEC normally only permits an issuer to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally minable.
·
“Proven mineral reserves” and “probable mineral reserves” - The definitions of proven and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions for “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” as found in SEC Industry Guide 7. Accordingly, our disclosures of mineral reserves herein may not be comparable to information from U.S. companies subject to reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC.
Cautionary Note To All Investors Concerning Economic Assessments That Include Mineral Resources: Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves have no demonstrated economic viability.
Units of measurement reported by the qualified person in compiling reports on a project vary by country, imperial units for properties in the U.S. and metric units for properties outside the U.S. We use the units of measurement as reported by the qualified persons in their respective reports, regardless of property location, in order to correspond to those units as reported by the qualified persons.
Mt Todd Gold Project, Northern Territory, Australia
Current Technical Report
The PFS for Mt Todd pursuant to NI 43-101 was filed on SEDAR on March 2, 2018 and is entitled “NI 43-101 Technical Report - Mt Todd Gold Project - 50,000 tpd Preliminary Feasibility Study - Northern Territory, Australia” with an effective date of January 24, 2018 and an issue date of March 2, 2018 prepared by Rex Clair Bryan, Ph.D., Anthony Clark, P.E., Thomas L. Dyer, P.E., Amy L. Hudson, Ph.D., CPG, REM, Chris Johns, M.Sc., P.Eng., Benjamin S. Johnson, P.E., Deepak Malhotra, Ph.D., Zvon Ponos, BE, MIEAust, CPeng, NER, Guy Roemer, P.E., Vicki J. Scharnhorst, P.E., LEED AP, D. Erik Spiller, QP, Jessica I. Spriet, P.E., Keith Thompson, CPG, PG, each of whom is a qualified person under NI 43-101.
The following description of Mt Todd has been sourced, in part, from the PFS and readers should consult the PFS to obtain further particulars regarding Mt Todd. The PFS is available for review under our profile at www.sedar.com.
Certain capitalized terms in this section not otherwise defined have the meanings ascribed to them in the PFS.
Pre-Feasibility Study Results: Base Case and Alternate Case
The PFS evaluates two development scenarios: a 50,000 tpd project that develops more of the Mt Todd resource and generates a larger Net Present Value (“NPV”) (the “Base Case”); and a smaller and higher-grade 33,000 tpd project (the “Alternate Case”).
The Base Case (50,000 tpd) includes:
·
Estimated proven and probable reserves of 5.848 Moz of gold (221 Mt at 0.82 g-Au/t) at a cut-off grade of 0.40 g-Au/t(1);
·
Average annual production of 381,211 ounces of gold over the mine life, including average annual production of 479,450 ounces of gold per year during the first five years of operations;
·
Life of Mine (“LoM”) average cash costs of $645 per ounce, including average cash costs of $571 per ounce during the first five years of operations;
·
A 13 year operating life;
·
After-tax NPV5% of $679 million and internal rate of return (IRR) of 20.5% at $1,300 per ounce gold price and a USD:AUD exchange rate of 0.80, and
·
Initial capital requirements of $839 million.
The Alternate Case (33,000 tpd) includes:
·
Estimated proven and probable reserves of 3.557 Moz of gold (128 Mt at 0.86 g-Au/t) at a cut-off grade of 0.40 g-Au/t(1);
·
Average annual production of 273,000 ounces of gold over the mine life, including average annual production of 301,778 ounces of gold per year during the first five years of operations;
·
LoM average cash costs of $593 per ounce, including average cash costs of $581 per ounce during the first five years of operations;
·
An 11 year operating life;
·
After-tax NPV5% of $418 million and IRR of 17.8% at $1,300 per ounce gold price and USD:AUD exchange rate of $0.80, and
·
Initial capital requirements of $641 million.
(1)
Cautionary note to investors: Proven and probable reserves are estimated in accordance with NI 43-101 and do not constitute SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant reserves. See the section heading “Cautionary Note to Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Base Case Presented in PFS
Highlights of the PFS Base Case are presented in the table below:
Note: Economics presented using $1,300/oz gold and a flat $0.80 USD : $1.00 AUD exchange rate and assumes deferral of certain Northern Territory tax obligations as well as realization of equipment salvage values at the end of the mine life..
The following table provides additional details of the Mt Todd’s Base Case economics at variable gold price and Australian dollar assumptions:
Base Case key capital expenditures for initial and sustaining capital requirements are identified in the following table:
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding. Asset sale and salvage value assumptions include end of life re-sale values for mining and processing equipment; and recycle value for steel and pipe from the process plant and other facilities. We assume the power plant will be sold as a going concern.
The Base Case project includes a 70MW gas-fired power plant in the initial capital. The project consumes all power generated during the operating life. Self-generated power creates significant savings in operating costs compared to grid-sourced power. During the four years of reclamation and closure, the PFS assumes we will continue to generate power and sell that power into the NT electrical grid, for which there is a known market; and indicative purchase rates have been provided by the government-owned utility.
The following table presents a breakdown of Base Case operating costs.
Note: Jawoyn Royalty and Refining Costs calculated at $1,300 per ounce of gold. Amounts may not add due to rounding.
The 50,000 tpd Base Case mine plan contains 207.7 million tonnes of material mined from the Batman open pit plus 13.4 million tonnes of material from the existing heap leach pad that is processed through the mill at the end of the mine life. Together, 221.0 million tonnes of material containing 5.848 million ounces of gold at an average grade of 0.82 g Au/t are processed over the 13-year operating life. Total gold recovered is expected to be 4.956 million ounces. Average annual gold production over the life of mine is 381,211 ounces, averaging 479,450 ounces during the first five years of operations, with 582,032 ounces produced in the first year of operations. Commercial production would begin following approximately two years of construction and commissioning.
The following table highlights the Base Case production schedule:
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding. Total milled ore includes material from the heap leach pad that is processed at the end of the mine life.
Alternative Case Presented in PFS
The key differences between the Alternate Case and the Base Case include:
·
a 33,000 tpd processing facility as compared to a 50,000 tpd facility with associated lower mining rates and a smaller mining fleet;
·
pit design based on a pit shell calculated at $800/oz-Au ($1,000/ozAu in the 50,000 tpd project); the same cut-off grade of 0.40 g-Au/t was used; and
·
A shorter operating life for the 33,000 tpd Alternate Case.
Highlights of the PFS Alternate Case are presented in the table below:
Note: Economics presented using $1,300/oz gold and a flat $0.80 USD : $1.00 AUD exchange rate and assumes deferral of certain Northern Territory tax obligations as well as realization of equipment salvage values at the end of the mine life.
The following table provides additional details of the Alternative Case economics at variable gold price and Australian dollar assumptions:
Alternate Case key capital expenditures for initial and sustaining capital requirement are identified in the table below:
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding. Asset sale and salvage value assumptions include end of life re-sale values for mining and processing equipment; and recycle value for steel and pipe from the process plant and other facilities. We assume the power plant will be sold as a going concern.
The Alternate Case project includes a 50MW gas-fired power plant in initial capital. The project consumes all power generated during the operating life. During the four years of reclamation and closure, Vista intends to generate and sell power into the NT electrical grid, for which there is a known market; and indicative purchase rates have been provided by the government-owned utility.
The following table presents a breakdown of Alternate Case operating costs.
Note: Jawoyn Royalty and Refining Costs calculated at $1,300 per ounce of gold. Amounts may not add due to rounding.
The 33,000 tpd Alternate Case mine plan contains 114.7 million tonnes of material mined from the Batman open pit plus 13.4 million tonnes of material from the existing heap leach pad that is processed through the mill at the end of the mine
life. Together, 128.0 million tonnes of material containing 3.557 million ounces of gold at an average grade of 0.86 g Au/t are processed over the 11 year operating life. Total gold recovered is expected to be 3.003 million ounces. Average annual gold production over the life of mine is 273,000 ounces, averaging 301,778 ounces during the first five years of operations, with 360,501 ounces produced in the first year of operations. Commercial production would begin following two years of construction and commissioning.
The table below highlights the Alternate Case production schedule:
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding. Total milled ore includes material from the heap leach pad that is processed at the end of the mine life.
Property Description, Location and Access
In 2006, through an agreement with the Deed Administrators for Pegasus Gold Australia Pty. Ltd. (“Pegasus”), the NT Government and the Jawoyn Association Aboriginal Corporation (“JAAC”), we acquired the concession rights and access to Mt Todd. Also in 2006, through an agreement with the NT Government, we established the rights and obligations of both parties with respect to Mt Todd site care and maintenance and potential future development. In 2017, the latter agreement was extended through the end of 2023.
Mt Todd was an operating mine in the mid-1990s, but the project had been closed due to bankruptcy and was held by these organizations. The failure of the project was primarily a result of inefficiencies in the comminution circuit, poor gold recoveries and low gold prices. We hold Mt Todd through our wholly-owned subsidiary Vista Gold Australia Pty. Ltd. (“Vista Gold Australia”).
Mt Todd is located 56 kilometers by road northwest of Katherine, NT, Australia, and approximately 290 kilometers by road southeast of Darwin. Access is by existing paved public roads and approximately four kilometers of paved private road. We control and maintain the private paved road.
Gold mineralization in the Batman deposit at the project occurs in sheeted veins within silicified greywackes/shales/siltstones. The Batman deposit strikes north-northeast and dips steeply to the east. Higher grade zones of the deposit plunge to the south. The core zone is approximately 200-250 meters wide and 1.5 kilometers long, with several hanging wall structures providing additional width to the orebody. Mineralization is open at depth as well as along strike, although the intensity of mineralization weakens to the north and south along strike.
The Mt Todd Base Case is designed to be a conventional, large open-pit mining operation that will utilize large-scale mining equipment in a drill/blast/load/haul operation. Ore is planned to be processed in a large comminution circuit consisting of a gyratory crusher, cone crushers, high pressure grinding roll (“HPGR”) crushers, followed by X-ray
transmission (“XRT”) and laser sorting, and primary ball mills, followed by ISAMills, as discussed in greater detail below. Vista plans to recover gold in a conventional carbon-in-pulp (“CIP”) recovery circuit.
The Mt Todd site was not reclaimed when the mine closed in the late 1990s. Liability for the reclamation of the environmental conditions existing prior to Vista’s involvement with the project remains the responsibility of the NT Government until 30 days after we have provided notice to the NT Government that we intend to take over and assume the management operation and rehabilitation of Mt Todd. Vista will not give such notice until a production decision has been made, the project is fully permitted to construct the mine, and the necessary financing for project construction has been arranged.
The area has a sub-tropical climate with a distinct wet season and dry season. The area receives most of its rainfall between the months of January and March. Temperatures are moderate, allowing for year-round mining operations. Topography is relatively flat. The tenements encompass a variety of habitats forming part of the northern Savannah woodland region, which is characterized by eucalypt woodland with tropical grass understories. Surface elevations are approximately 130 to 160 meters above sea level in the area of the previous and planned plant site and waste dump.
Total land holdings controlled by Vista Gold Australia are approximately 160,000 hectares. A map showing the location of the mineral licenses (“MLs”) and exploration licenses (“ELs”) and a table with a list of MLs and ELs and the holding requirements are set out below. All of the estimated mineral resources are located within the boundaries of the MLs and substantially all of the estimated mineral resources at Mt Todd are located in the Batman deposit.
The Batman and Quigleys deposits are located within the MLs. Should a deposit be discovered on the ELs, the portion of the related EL would have to be converted to an ML before mining operations could start.
The significant risks that could affect access or title, our right to perform work, including permitting and environmental liabilities are included above in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Mt Todd Land Holdings of Vista Gold Australia
The surface land in the area of the contiguous MLs and ELs (excluding EL 28321) is freehold land owned by the JAAC. Because the JAAC have title to the land, such land is not part of the lands classified by the government as indigenous lands, and as a result such lands are not subject to an Indigenous Land Use Agreement. Vista has a private agreement with the JAAC for access to the land.
Under the terms of our agreement with the JAAC, we must offer the JAAC the opportunity to establish a joint venture with Vista holding 90% and the JAAC holding a 10% participating interest in Mt Todd. In addition, the JAAC will be entitled to cash payments, or payment in kind, equal to 1% of the value of the annual gold production from the current MLs, and a 1% net smelter return royalty (“NSR”) on other metals, subject to a minimum payment of A$50 per year.
We are required annually to submit an MMP that details work to be done on the property. We have received approval for all work done on the project to date and obtained approval for the EIS. Further permitting will be required before mine development can start. The related permitting processes are relatively straight-forward and are not expected to impede to a material extent our exploration and future development plans. Any future mining will require an approved closure plan and sufficient surety bonding to fund that closure.
Following the bankruptcy of the previous operator, most of the processing equipment and facilities were removed from the site; but some basic infrastructure which may be of use in a future operation is still in place, including a fully functioning tailings impoundment facility that has capacity to store additional mill tailings and a fresh water storage reservoir. In addition, a medium voltage power line supplies the site with electrical power, and a natural gas pipeline, used for power generation by the former operators, is still in place. Mt Todd is located sufficiently close to the city of Katherine and the town of Pine Creek to allow for an easy commute for workers.
Because the Mt Todd site was not reclaimed when the mine closed, the dumps and heap leach pad require ongoing care and maintenance, which we provide. Precipitation on the waste dumps, low-grade ore stockpiles and scats have resulted in acid rock drainage which is managed through collection in retention ponds, storage, pH adjustment followed by the controlled release of treated water into the Edith River, in accordance with the Waste Discharge License (“WDL”).
History
The Batman gold prospect is located in the Pine Creek Geosyncline goldfield that was worked from early in the 20th century. Gold and tin were discovered in the Mt Todd area in 1889. Most deposits were worked in the period from 1902 to 1914. A total of 7.80 tonnes of tin concentrate was obtained from cassiterite-bearing quartz-kaolin lodes at the Morris and Shamrock mines. The Jones Brothers reef was the most extensively mined gold-bearing quartz vein, with a recorded production of 28.45 kg Au. This reef consists of a steeply dipping ferruginous quartz lode within tightly folded greywackes.
The Yinberrie Wolfram field, discovered in 1913, is located 5 kilometers west of Mt Todd. Tungsten, molybdenum and bismuth mineralization was discovered in greisenized aplite dykes and quartz veins in a small stock of the Cullen Batholith. Recorded production from numerous shallow shafts is 163 tonnes of tungsten, 130 kg of molybdenite and a small quantity of bismuth.
Exploration for uranium began in the 1950s. Small uranium prospects were discovered in sheared or greisenized portions of the Cullen Batholith in the vicinity of the Edith River.
Australian Ores and Minerals Limited (“AOM”) in a joint venture with Wandaroo Mining Corporation and Esso Standard Oil took out a number of mining leases in the Mt Todd area during 1975. Initial exploration consisted of stream sediment sampling, rock chip sampling, and geological reconnaissance for a variety of commodities. A number of geochemical anomalies were found primarily in the vicinity of old workings. Follow-up work concentrated on alluvial tin and, later, auriferous reefs. Backhoe trenching, costeaning, and ground follow-up were the favored mode of exploration. Two diamond drillholes were drilled at Quigleys. Despite determining that the gold potential of the reefs in the area was promising, AOM ceased work around Mt Todd.
The Arafura Mining Corporation, CRA Exploration, and Marriaz Pty Ltd all explored the Mt Todd area at different times between 1975 and 1983. In late 1981, CRA Exploration conducted grid surveys, geological mapping and a 14 diamond drillhole program, with an aggregate meterage of 676.5 m, to test the gold content of Quigleys Reef over a strike length of 800 meters. Following this program CRA Exploration did not proceed with further exploration.
During late 1986, Pacific Gold Mines NL (“Pacific”) undertook exploration in the area which resulted in small-scale open cut mining on the Quigleys and Golf reefs, and limited test mining at the Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and Delta pits. Ore was transported to a CIP plant owned by Pacific at Moline. This continued until December 1987. Pacific ceased operations in the area in February 1988. having produced approximately 86,000 tonnes grading 4 g-Au/t (historic reported production, not NI 43-101 compliant). Subsequent negotiations between the Mt Todd Joint Venture partners Shell Company of Australia (“Billiton”), Zapopan NL (“Zapopan”) and Pacific resulted in the acquisition of this ground and incorporation into the joint venture.
Billiton, who was the managing partner in an exploration program in the joint venture with Zapopan, discovered the Mt Todd mineralization, or more specifically the Batman deposit, in May 1988. In 1992, Pegasus Gold Australia Pty. Ltd.
(“Pegasus”) acquired a share holding in Zapopan, following which Zapopoan acquired Billiton’s interest. Pegasus progressively increased their shareholding until they acquired full ownership of Zapopan in July 1995.
Feasibility studies (not NI 43-101 compliant) for Phase I, a heap leach operation which focused predominately on the oxide portion of the deposit, commenced during 1992 culminating in an engineering, procurement, construction management (“EPCM”) award to Minproc in November of that year. The Phase I project was predicated upon a 4 million tonne per year (“Mtpy”) heap leach plant, which came on stream in late 1993. The treatment rate was subsequently expanded to a rate of 6 Mtpy on in late 1994.
Historic production is shown in the table below:
Phase II involved expanding to 8 Mtpy and treatment through a flotation and carbon-in-leach (“CIL”) circuit. The feasibility study was conducted by a joint venture between Bateman Kinhill and Kilborne (“BKK”) and was completed in June 1995.
The Pegasus board approved the project on August 17, 1995, and awarded an EPCM contract to BKK in October 1995. Commissioning commenced in November 1996. Final capital costs to complete the project were AUD232 million (USD181 million).
Design capacity was never achieved due to inadequacies in the 3rd and 4th stages of the crushing circuit. A throughput rate of just under 7 Mtpy was achieved by mid-1997; however, problems with the flotation circuit which resulted in reduced recoveries necessitated closure of this circuit. Subsequently, high reagent consumption, as a result of cyanide soluble copper minerals, further hindered efforts to reach design production. Operating costs were above those predicted in the feasibility study. The spot price of gold deteriorated from above USD400 in early 1996 to below USD300 per ounce at the end of 1997. Underperformance of the project and higher operating costs led to the mine being closed and placed on care and maintenance on November 14, 1997.
In February 1999, General Gold Resources Pty. Ltd. (“General Gold”) agreed to form a joint venture with Multiplex Resources Pty Ltd (“Multiplex”) and Pegasus to own, operate, and explore the mine. Initial equity participation in the joint venture was General Gold 2% , Multiplex 93%, and Pegasus 5%. The joint venture appointed General Gold as mine operator, which contributed the operating plan in exchange for a 50% share of the net cash flow generated by the project, after allowing for acquisition costs and environmental sinking fund contributions. General Gold operated the mine from March 1999 to July 2000. Operations ceased in July 2000, and Pegasus, through the Deed Administrators, regained possession of various parts of the mine assets in order to recoup the balance of purchase price owed to it. Most of the equipment was sold in June 2001 and removed from the mine.
In March 2006, Vista acquired the concession rights from the Deed Administrators, surface rights from the JAAC and entered in to a contract with the Government of the Northern Territory of Australia
Geological Setting, Mineralization, and Deposit Type
Mt Todd is situated within the southeastern portion of the Early Proterozoic Pine Creek Geosyncline. Meta-sediments, granitoids, basic intrusives, acidic and intermediate volcanic rocks occur within this geological province. Within the Mt Todd region, the oldest outcropping rocks are assigned to the Burrell Creek Formation. These rocks consist primarily of interbedded greywackes, siltstones, and shales of turbidite affinity, which are interspersed with the minor volcanics. The Burrell Creek Formation is overlain by interbedded greywackes, mudstones, tuffs, minor conglomerates, mafic to intermediate volcanics and banded ironstone of the Tollis Formation. The Burrell Creek Formation and Tollis Formation comprise the Finniss River Group. The Finniss River Group strata have been folded about northerly trending fold axes. The folds are closed to open style and have moderate westerly dipping axial planes with some sections being overturned. A later north-south compression event resulted in east-west trending open style upright D2 folds. The Finniss River Group has been regionally metamorphosed to lower green schist facies. Late and Post Orogenic granite intrusions of the Cullen Batholith occurred from 1,789 Ma to 1,730 Ma, and brought about local contact metamorphism to hornblende hornfels facies.
The Batman pit geology consists of a sequence of hornfelsed interbedded greywackes and shales with minor thin beds of felsic tuff. Bedding consistently strikes at 325 degrees, dipping 40 degrees to 60 degrees to the southwest. Northerly trending sheeted quartz sulfide veins and joints striking at 0 degrees to 20 degrees and dipping 60 degrees to the east are the major controls for mineralization in the Batman pit. The veins are 1 to 100 millimeters in thickness with an average thickness of around 8 to 10 millimeters and occur in sheets with up to 20 veins per horizontal meter. These sheeted veins are the main source of gold mineralization in the Batman pit. In general, the Batman pit extends 1,600 meters in length by 1,100 meters in width and has been drill tested to a depth of 800 meters down-dip. The deposit is open along strike and at depth.
The mineralization within the Batman pit is directly related to the intensity of the north-south trending quartz sulfide veining. The lithological units impact on the orientation and intensity of mineralization. Sulfide minerals associated with the gold mineralization are pyrite, pyrrhotite and lesser amounts of chalcopyrite, bismuthinite and arsenopyrite. Galena and sphalerite are also present, but appear to be post-gold mineralization, and are related to calcite veining in the bedding plains and the east-west trending faults and joints. Two main styles of mineralization have been identified in the Batman pit. These are the north-south trending vein mineralization and bedding parallel mineralization.
Based on our review of the historic project files, we believe that approximately 21.4 million tonnes grading 1.05 grams gold per tonne and containing 723,795 ounces of gold were extracted between 1993 and the termination of mining in 2000. Processing was by a combination of heap leach production from oxide ore and cyanidation of sulfide ore. The remaining mineralization consists of sulfide mineralization lying below and along strike of the existing open pit, and in hanging wall structures parallel to the main zone in the existing open pit.
Exploration Licenses
Since acquiring the Mt Todd ELs, Vista has conducted an ongoing exploration program that includes prospecting, geologic mapping, rock and soil sampling, geophysical surveys and exploration drilling. Equipment and personnel were mobilized from the site or from an exploration base camp established in the central part of the ELs. The work was conducted by geologists and field technicians.
The exploration effort initially focused on follow up work on targets developed by Pegasus during their tenure on the property. These included the RKD target, Tablelands, and Silver Spray. During a review of Pegasus’ airborne geophysical survey data, five distinct magnetic highs were observed located within sedimentary rocks that should have a low magnetic signature. These features are remarkably similar to those at Batman, which, as a result of the included pyrrhotite, exhibits a strong magnetic high. The geophysical targets were prioritized following review of historic work in the area and site visits. To date, two of the geophysical targets, Golden Eye and Snowdrop, have been drilled and a third, Black Hill, has been covered by soil sampling.
The Wandie target has a different magnetic signature. Field examination identified small scale pits on an iron-rich outcropping.
There are no reportable resources and reserves on the ELs. No data from the ELs are used in the development of the PFS results.
Exploration Sampling summary:
Exploration Potential for MLs
Based on airborne geophysical survey data, we have identified several magnetic targets within our controlled land holdings surrounding the Batman pit. The targets are distinct magnetic highs located within sedimentary rocks that should have a low magnetic signature. These features are similar to those at Mt Todd, which, as a result of the included pyrrhotite, exhibits a strong magnetic high.
Mineralization at the Quigleys deposit is interpreted to occur within a series of mineralized shears that strike north northwest and dip 30 to 35 degrees to the west. The main shear extends for nearly one kilometer along the strike and has been drilled to a vertical depth of 230 meters. The mineral resource estimate has been defined by 632 drill holes drilled by Pegasus and Billiton Australia Gold Pty. Ltd. in the late 1980s through the mid-1990s. Tetra Tech reviewed the integrity of the drill-hole database and developed a computer model to estimate and classify the estimated mineral resources. The model reflected Tetra Tech’s geological interpretation of the deposit, which constrained the mineralization to the shear zones using geological information and assays from 49,178 samples obtained from the drilling. Lower grade, erratic mineralization in the hanging wall of the shears has not been included in the mineral resource estimate.
Sampling and assaying was done under the supervision of prior operators in conjunction with evaluation of the Batman pit and are discussed in the PFS, as part of the overall project sampling and assaying methodology.
Based on Tetra Tech’s resource analysis, at a cut-off grade of 0.40 g Au/t, under SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines, mineralized material for the Quigleys deposit is estimated at 6.2 million tonnes grading 1.13 g Au/t. Under CIM Definition Standards, at the same cut-off grade of 0.40 g Au/t, measured mineral resources are estimated at 457,000 tonnes grading 1.27 g Au/t, indicated mineral resources are estimated at 5.7 million tonnes grading 1.12 g Au/t and inferred mineral resources are estimated at 1.6 million tonnes grading 0.84 g Au/t. Cautionary Note to Investors: see the section heading “Cautionary Note to Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
Drilling
The drilling discussed in this section is related to the MLs and is limited to that completed since the filing of the NI 43-101 Technical Report - Mt Todd Gold Project, 50,000 tpd Preliminary Feasibility Study, Northern Territory, Australia, Amended & Restated; July 7, 2014. A portion of the drillhole data was used to complete the resource estimate in August 2017. Part of the drillholes were completed for metallurgical samples and are not used in the mineral resource estimate. All of the drillhole data presented in the above report are still valid and have been incorporated in an unchanged manner.
Between the fourth quarter of 2012 and the end of the first quarter of 2017, the Vista exploration program at the Batman deposit consisted of 22 diamond core drillholes containing 12,530 meters that targeted both infill definitional drilling and step-out drilling.
Drillholes added for resource update:
QD018-001
128.2
Diamond
QD018-002
188.1
Diamond
QD018-003
Diamond
QD018-004
99.5
Diamond
QD018-005
137.5
Diamond
GE18-001
51.2
Diamond
WD018-001
227.3
279.5
Diamond
WD018-002
291.4
Diamond
*Used for metallurgical testing. Not used in the mineral resource estimate.
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification
The sampling method and approach for drillholes completed between 2012 and 2018 has remained consistent. The drill core, upon removal from the core barrel, is placed into plastic core boxes. The plastic core boxes are transported to the sample preparation building where the core is marked, geologically logged, geotechnically logged, photographed, and cut into halves. One-half is placed into sample bags as nominal one-meter sample lengths, and the other half retained for future reference. The only exception to this is when a portion of the remaining core has been flagged for use in the ongoing metallurgical testwork.
The bagged samples have sample tags placed both inside and on the outside of the sample bags. The individual samples are grouped into “lots” for submission to Northern Analytical Laboratories for preparation and analytical testing. All of this work was done under the supervision of a Vista geologist.
The following section describes the sample preparation, analyses and security undertaken by Vista through the March 2018 resource update.
The diamond drilling program was conducted under the supervision of the geologic staff composed of a chief geologist, several experienced geologists, and a core handling/cutting crew. The core handling crew was recruited locally.
Facilities for the core processing included an enclosed logging shed and a covered cutting and storage area that was fenced in. Both of these facilities were considered to be limited access areas and kept secured when work was not in progress.
The diamond drill core was boxed and stacked at the rig by the drill crews. Core was then picked up daily by members of the core handling crew and transported directly into the logging shed. Processing of the core included photographing, geotechnical and geologic logging, and marking the core for sampling. The nominal sample interval was one meter. When this process was completed, the core was moved into the core cutting/storage area where it was laid out for sampling. The core was logged using the following procedures:
·
One-meter depth intervals were marked out on the core by a member of the geologic staff;
·
Core orientation (bottom of core) was marked with a solid line when at least three orientation marks aligned and used for structural measurements. When orientation marks were insufficient an estimation orientation was indicated by a dashed line;
·
Geologic logging was then done by a member of the geologic staff. Assay intervals were selected at that time and a cut line marked on the core. The standard sample interval was one-m, with a minimum of 0.4 meters and a maximum of 1.4 meters;
·
Blind sample numbers were then assigned based on pre-labeled sample bags. Sample intervals were then indicated in the core tray at the appropriate locations;
·
Each core tray was photographed and restacked on pallets pending sample cutting and stored on site indefinitely; and
·
9,635 assays were added for the October 2012 resource update, an additional 7,601 assay intervals were added for the March 2013 resource, and 729 assay intervals were added for the 2017 model update.
The core was then cut using diamond saws with each interval placed in sample bags. At this time, the standards and blanks were also placed in plastic bags for inclusion in the shipment. A reference standard or a blank was inserted at a minimum ratio of 1 in 10 and at suspected high-grade intervals additional blanks sample were added. Standard reference material was sourced from Ore Research & Exploration Pty Ltd and provided in 60 g sealed packets. When a sequence of five samples was completed, they were placed in a shipping bag and closed with a zip tie. All of these samples were kept in the secure area until crated for shipping.
Samples were placed in crates for shipping with 100 samples per crate (20 shipping bags). The crates were stacked outside the core shed until picked up for transport.
The following laboratories have been used for lab preparation, analyses, and check assays:
Assay and Preparation Laboratories
Prior to the 2011 drilling campaign, the majority of samples were transported first to ALS in Alice Springs, NT for sample preparation. After preparation, samples were then forwarded on to ALS in Malaga, Western Australia for assay analyses. One in every 20 pulp or reject was sent from ALS in Alice Springs to Northern Australian Laboratories (NAL), Vista was notified by email which samples were sent to NAL. For the 2011-2012 drilling campaign samples for assay were sent to NAL lab in Pine Creek, NT. Check assays on one in every 20 pulps or rejects were completed by NT Environmental Laboratories. Following completion of assay results, all pulps and reject material was shipped back to the Project site and stored.
Vista is completely independent of any analytical testing entity, other than they have engaged said entities as a customer.
Sample Security
NAL is the primary laboratory we use for analysis of drill core assays. The NAL laboratory is located in the town of Pine Creek, approximately 50 kilometers distant by road from the project site. Samples were picked up and transported by NAL employees.
Sample shipments were scheduled for approximately once a week. The sealed crates were picked up on site by NAL for direct road transport to the assay lab. A sample transmittal form was prepared and included with each shipment and a copy was filed in the geology office on site.
When the shipment left site, sample transmittals were prepared and e-mailed to NAL. When the shipment arrived at the preparation facility the samples were lined out and a confirmation of sample receipt was e-mailed back to Vista.
Statistical analyses of the various drilling populations and quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) samples have neither identified nor highlighted any reasons to not accept the data as representative of the tenor and grade of the mineralization estimated at the Batman deposit.
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserve Estimates
The table below illustrates the updated mineral reserve and resource estimate for the project. The effective date of the Batman deposit mineral resource estimate and the heap leach resource estimate is January 24, 2018.
Mt Todd Mineral Reserves, Base Case (50,000 tpd) 0.40 g Au/t cut-off. Mineral reserves calculated at $1,250 per ounce of gold
Batman reserves are reported using a 0.40 cut- off grade and a $1,250 per ounce gold price. Unit costs used: $1.90/tonne mined, milling cost $7.80/tonne processed, tailings cost $0.90 per tonne processed, G&A cost $0.46/tonne processed, water treatment $0.10/tonne processed,1% gross royalty. Ore processing at 50,000 TPD, 355 Days/Yr., for a total of 17,750,000 TPY. Au recovery: sulfide 85%, transition 80%, oxide 80%. Because all of the heap-leach pad reserves are to be fed through the mill, these reserves are reported without a cutoff grade applied.
Mt Todd Mineral Reserves, Alternate Case (33,000 tpd) 0.40 g Au/t cut-off. Mineral reserves calculated at $1,250 per ounce of gold
Batman reserves are reported using a 0.40 cut- off grade and a $1,250 per ounce gold price. Unit costs used: $2.16/tonne mined, milling cost $8.65/tonne processed, tailings cost $0.90 per tonne processed, G&A cost $0.77/tonne processed, water treatment $0.10/tonne processed, 1% gross royalty. Ore processing at 33,000 TPD, 355 Days/Yr.,for a total of 11,715,000 TPY. Au recovery: sulfide 85%, transition 80%, oxide 80%. Because all of the heap-leach pad reserves are to be fed through the mill, these reserves are reported without a cutoff grade applied.
Mt Todd Mineral Resources Base Case (50,000 tpd)
Note: Measured and indicated resources include proven and probable reserves. Batman and Quigleys resources are estimated at a 0.40g Au/t cut-off grade. Heap leach resources are the average grade of the heap, no cut-off applied. Economic analysis conducted on proven and probable mineral reserves.
(Remainder of page intentionally left blank)
Cautionary note to investors: Proven and probable reserves are estimated in accordance with NI 43-101 and do not constitute SEC Industry Guide 7 compliant reserves see the section heading “Cautionary Note to Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves” above.
The tables below show the resource classification criteria and variogram parameters for the Batman resource model.
Mining Operations
Only open-pit mining methods are considered for mining at Mt Todd. Mt Todd has been planned as a conventional, owner-operated, truck and shovel operation, that will use large scale mining equipment in a blast/load/haul operation. The truck and shovel method provides reasonable cost benefits and selectivity for this type of deposit.
The Base Case and the Alternate Case use substantially the same sized equipment, however, the Alternate Case requires fewer units.
Mineral Processing
The flowsheet consists of primary crushing, closed circuit secondary crushing, closed circuit tertiary crushing using HPGR crushers, ore sorting, two-stage grinding, cyclone classification, pre-leach thickening, leach and adsorption, elution electrowinning and smelting, carbon regeneration, tailings detoxification and disposal to conventional tailings storage facility (“TSF”). The flowsheet for the Base Case is illustrated below.
The flowsheet for the Alternate Case is based on the same configuration, but with proportionally smaller scale equipment and fewer sorters and tanks.
Metallurgical Testing
Our metallurgical test work programs have confirmed: (1) ore hardness estimates at the Batman deposit are consistent throughout the deposit and do not change at depth; (2) the selection of HPGR crusher technology as part of the comminution circuit; (3) the selection of automated ore sorting technology to eliminate low-grade material after crushing and prior to grinding; (4) estimated gold recovery rates based on optimized grind size and leach conditions; and (5) the processing of material from the historic heap leach pad at the end of the proposed mine life.
The test work results collated from the 2011 and 2012 testing campaigns and additional metallurgical and process test work conducted in 2016, 2017 and 2018, together with the process design criteria, were used to develop the process flow sheet and mass balance.
Ore Hardness
Bond ball mill work indices (“BWi”) were determined at a grind size of P80 of 100 mesh for the various products, namely HPGR crusher, ore-sorting, composite samples and waste material.
The test results indicate the following:
·
The BWi for the XRT products was higher than the composite samples prepared from the crushed products. Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that the uncrushed material in the HPGR is harder than the crushed product.
·
The waste material had a BWi higher than the composite sample as well as the XRT recycle products.
·
The BWi for the products ranged from 23.10 to 24.28. A BWi of 24.50 was selected for the design of the primary ball mill circuit.
The results of this test work support two main conclusions: (1) that the hardness of ore at the Batman deposit is relatively constant; and (2) that ore hardness at the Batman deposit does not change at depth.
This test work validates the Company’s prior test work and supports Vista’s revised comminution circuit design, which is designed to crush and grind material with an average BWi of 26.2 kWh/t, a 5% factor of safety above the average BWi and closer to the 75th percentile of BWi test results.
HPGR Crusher Selection
The proposed Base Case comminution circuit incorporates the use of a large gyratory crusher and two large cone crushers for the primary and secondary stages, respectively, and contemplates the use of two HPGR crushers as the third-stage of the crushing circuit.
The test work also assessed the difference in power requirements between a primary/SAG/ball mill circuit, a conventional 3-stage crush/ball mill circuit, and a 3-stage HPGR crush/ball mill circuit (with 3rd stage HPGR crushing and 2-stage grinding) to generate a P80 passing 60 μm product.
This test work also confirms our prior test work and supports our comminution circuit design. The use of HPGR crushers is anticipated to (a) produce a product that can be ground more efficiently (lower BWi); and (b) reduce energy requirements when compared to a SAG mill design.
Sorting
The bulk automated sorting tests comprised four, five-tonne composites prepared from 3.75" drill core. Three of the composites contained predominately sulfide mineralization and one composite contained mixed oxide/sulfide material that is encountered on the periphery of the deposit. The drill core was HPGR crushed and screened at 16mm at the facilities of Thyssen Krupp Industries (“TKI”) near Dusseldorf, Germany. The +16mm material was sent to the test facility of Tomra Sorting Solutions (“Tomra”) near Hamburg, Germany where this material was initially sorted using XRT sorting. A total of 12 sorting tests were completed. The XRT rejects were then subjected to laser sorting to produce a final reject. All material (-16mm HPGR crushed, XRT product, laser product and sorting reject) was sent to the metallurgical laboratory of Resource Development Inc. (“RDi”) in Wheatridge, Colorado for subsequent sample preparation, assaying and additional metallurgical testing.
On a material mass basis, the combined XRT and laser sorting tests confirmed the Company’s expectation that it can reject approximately 10% of the run-of-mine feed as waste (test results range from 6.8% to 11.0%). The average grade of the rejected material is estimated to be 0.12 g Au/t (results range from 0.06 g Au/t to 0.23 g Au/t) compared to the mine cut-off grade of 0.4 g Au/t, resulting in a gold loss from the rejected waste of approximately 1.3%. The improvement in mill feed grade is expected to be approximately 8%, resulting in run-of-mine average mill feed grade of 0.91 g Au/t compared to the life-of-mine reserve grade of 0.84 g Au/t. We now expect total costs for grinding, leaching
and tailings handling, which are dependent on the volume of material processed, to be approximately 10% less than previously estimated.
Gold Recoveries
We continued evaluating gold recoveries using two-stage grinding and a finer product size. This test work has confirmed that the introduction of sorting to reduce the leach tonnage by approximately 10% and finer grinding to P80 of 60 µm yields an increase in recovery of approximately 4.1%, net of solution losses.
A total of 41 additional leach tests were completed using the above mentioned two-staged grinding to confirm our resulting leach recoveries of 86.5% for sulfide ores, 79.5% for mixed and oxide ores and 71.5% for heap leach ore, net of solution losses. This test work has also confirmed a cyanide consumption rate of 0.45 kg per tonne.
Our recovery plant design utilizing a conventional, industry-proven, CIP circuit remains unchanged. See also ‘2018 Program Results’ below.
Existing Heap Leach Pad
In addition to analysis of freshly-mined material from the Batman deposit, Vista has analyzed the potential to process nearly 13.4 million tonnes of material on the existing heap leach pad at Mt Todd. The original Mt Todd started as a heap leach operation with historic records indicating that the average grade of material placed on the pad was 0.96 g Au/t. Although the material was partially leached in the mid-1990s, Vista has drilled 24 air-rotary holes into the heap leach pad and assayed 361 samples, and Tetra Tech created a 3D resource model that has an average grade of 0.54 g Au/t.
Initial evaluation efforts focused on re-starting the heap leach pad. Bottle roll and column tests were completed, both of which supported the leachability of the material with gold recovery rates around 35%. However, poor in situ permeability rates caused Vista to ultimately abandon plans to re-start the heap.
We subsequently submitted two heap leach variability composites and two drill hole composites from the leach pad for CIP cyanidation leach test work. The samples were ground to the size of P80 of 90 μm and pre-treated with lime and 100 g/t of lead nitrate to suppress copper leaching. The material was then leached for 24 hours. These results support recovery rates of 71.5% for this material when processed through the CIP plant.
The PFS assumes that the existing heap leach pad will be left in place and processed through the mill at the end of mine life. This ultimately reduces the scope of reclamation to the pad liner only.
Infrastructure
Because Mt Todd was an operating mine, infrastructure exists that reduces initial capital expenditure and significantly reduces capital risk related to infrastructure construction, which has been a major source of capital overruns in the mining industry over the last decade. Existing mining infrastructure items include:
·
an existing tailings storage facility that is expected to contain approximately 87 million tonnes of material processed;
·
an existing fresh water storage reservoir that will receive a two-meter dam raise and will harvest stormwater sufficient to provide process water for year-round operations for a 50,000 tpd operation;
·
a natural gas pipeline at site that can supply sufficient natural gas to meet the project's energy requirements which, coupled with the planned power generating plant, would save considerably on project operating costs compared to grid-supplied power;
·
a paved road to site;
·
current electrical connection to the NT electric grid; and
·
reduced earthworks costs due to the process plant location being the same as the previous process plant, which has already been cleared and graded.
Other benefits of Mt Todd’s NT location include:
·
the Stuart highway - the main North / South highway in the NT is less than 15 kilometers from the project site;
·
rail line parallel to the Stuart highway; and
·
the regional center of Katherine (population approximately 12,000) less than 60 kilometers from site and the NT capital of Darwin less than 300 kilometers from the project site, which has port access.
The area has both historic and current mining activity and therefore a portion of the skilled workforce will be sourced locally. In addition, Katherine offers the necessary support functions that are found in a medium-sized city with regard to supplies, accommodations, communications, etc.
Planned infrastructure for the site includes the following:
·
Ammonium Nitrate and Fuel Oil (ANFO) Facility;
·
Mine Support Facilities (Heavy Vehicle (HV) Workshop, Lube Farm, Washdown and Tire Change, Warehouse, Fuel Farm, Mining Offices, Core Storage Facility);
·
Heap Leach Facility;
·
Small Accommodation Camp for occasional contractor use;
·
Water Treatment Plant (WTP);
·
Power Supply;
·
Pit Dewatering;
·
Mine Services;
·
Communications;
·
Gatehouse; and
·
Expanded existing and additional TSF.
Permitting
During September 2014, the EIS was approved. In its Assessment Report, the NTEPA advised that it had assessed the environmental impacts of Vista’s development plans for Mt Todd and concluded that it can proceed, subject to a number of recommendations which are outlined in the Assessment Report. The NTEPA Assessment Report includes 28 recommendations which are to be addressed as part of the MMP.
The approval of the EIS resulted in the requirement to obtain an authorization of a controlled activity as required under the EPBC as it relates to the Gouldian Finch. The EPBC authorization was submitted for approval to the Australian Commonwealth Department of Environment and Energy during December 2015 and the authorization was granted in January 2018.
In November 2018, we applied for the MMP permit, the operating permit that sets out how mine operating strategy will be implemented throughout the mine life in compliance with the EIS and Australian Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act of 1999 (“EPBC”) requirements.
Environmental, Social and Community Factors
A number of environmental studies have been conducted at Mt Todd in support of the EIS and as required for environmental and operational permits. Studies conducted have investigated soils, climate and meteorology, geology, geochemistry, biological resources, cultural and anthropological sites, socio-economics, hydrogeology, and water quality.
The EIS for the project was submitted in June 2013. The document was prepared by independent consultants GHD Pty Ltd to identify potential environmental, social, transport, cultural and economic impacts associated with reopening and operating the mine. NTEPA provided its final assessment of the project in June 2014. Final approval was given in September 2014.
In January 2018, the “authorization of a controlled activity” was received for the project as required under the EBPC as it relates to the Gouldian Finch, and as such has received approval from the Australian Commonwealth Department of Environment and Energy.
The Jawoyn people have been consulted with and involved in the planning of the project. Areas of aboriginal significance have been designated, and the mine plan has avoided development in these restricted works areas
Water Treatment
We have a WDL from the NT Government that authorizes the release of treated water from the Mt Todd site during the wet season in accordance with higher environmental protection standards. We operate in compliance with the standards. We will have to dewater substantially the entire pit before mining operations can be started.
2018 Program Results
In January 2018, we announced that the “authorization of a controlled activity” at Mt Todd, as required under the EPBC, as it relates to the Gouldian Finch, had been approved by the Australian Commonwealth Department of Environment and Energy. With this authorization, Vista has all the major environmental approvals necessary to allow development of Mt Todd.
During 2018, we completed four additional PQ core holes designed to extract approximately 6 tonnes of higher-grade material from the Batman pit, for the completion of two additional 2.5 tonne bulk HPGR crushing, XRT and laser sorting tests using the same equipment as previous test work; and a single 1 tonne sample for completing an HPGR test with a competing HPGR manufacturer. The two 2.5 tonne tests were conducted to confirm the efficiency of sorting higher-grade ores. We are completing additional feasibility-study-level grinding tests with the manufacturers of the secondary grinding mills in order to obtain material for ongoing metallurgical studies and specific operating data for future design and evaluation work. Similar tests on low-grade samples were conducted earlier this year with Glencore, who manufacture the ISAMill referenced in the PFS, and with FLSmidth, who produce a competing mill known as a Vertimill. We have also completed additional testing with an impeller manufacturer in order to optimize the design of the leach tanks to achieve the lowest possible electrical power consumption at designed slurry densities.
In August 2018, we announced the results of tests of the second stage grinding circuit undertaken, under the direction of Resource Development Inc. These tests suggest that the Mt Todd ore can be efficiently ground to a finer final product size with lower power consumption than estimated in the PFS. Leaching the finer final product size material has again confirmed higher recoveries at finer grind sizes. Based on these initial results, we are now undertaking additional testing to: confirm results over a broad range of feed grades; justify design changes; and support an update of the project economics. We believe that the results of these ongoing grinding and leaching tests indicate that gold recoveries exceeding 90% may be achieved for the Mt Todd gold project, as compared to 86.4% assumed in our January 2018 PFS. Analysis indicates that each 1% improvement in gold recoveries could add approximately 0.5% to Mt Todd’s after-tax IRR, and approximately $25 million to after-tax NPV5%.
2019 Plans
Our 2019 plans include completion of the metallurgical program started in 2018. Specifically, completion of additional grinding studies, two-stage leach recoveries, and rheology studies. Upon completion of the confirmation metallurgical test work, Vista intends to update the January 24, 2018 PFS by incorporating the metallurgical test program results. The areas of the PFS that will likely be most impacted include higher gold recoveries due to the introduction of a constant tail and lower process plant operating costs with regard to power consumption, reagents, and media.
Mt Todd is without known mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the project remains exploratory in nature.
Guadalupe de los Reyes Gold/Silver Project, Sinaloa, Mexico
During October 2017, we entered into an agreement (the “Option Agreement”) to option our interest in the Guadalupe de los Reyes gold and silver project in Sinaloa, Mexico (the “GdlR Project”) to Minera Alamos Inc. and its subsidiary Minera Alamos de Sonora S.A. de C.V. (“Minera Alamos”).
Pursuant to the terms of the Option Agreement, we have granted Minera Alamos an exclusive right and option to earn a 100% interest in the GdlR Project by:
·
making payments totaling $6,000 comprised of a payment of $1,500 made at the execution of the Option Agreement (“Option Grant Date”); two successive payments of $1,500 each to be made at the one-year and two-year anniversaries of the Option Grant Date; and a final $1,500 payment to be made before the four-year anniversary of the Option Grant Date;
·
maintaining the concessions comprising the GdlR Project in good standing;
·
fulfilling all of our obligations to the Ejido La Tasajera (the “Ejido”) as set out in the temporary occupation contract between us and the Ejido;
·
granting us a capped NSR royalty on production from open pit mining (the “Open Pit NSR”) at rates that range from 1% (at gold prices of $1,400/oz or less) to a maximum of 2% (at gold prices above $1,600/oz) up to an aggregate of $2,000 in royalty payments;
·
granting us a perpetual NSR royalty on production from underground mining (the “Underground NSR”) at rates that range from 1% (at gold prices of $1,400/oz or less) to a maximum of 2% (at gold prices above $1,600/oz); and
·
granting us the right to assume a 49% non-carried interest in an underground project if Minera Alamos decides to develop an underground mine at the GdlR Project (the “Back-in Right”).
The Option Agreement provides that all cash payments are non-refundable and optional to Minera Alamos, and in the event Minera Alamos fails to pay any of the required amounts as set out in the Option Agreement, or fails to comply with its other obligations, the Option Agreement will terminate and Minera Alamos will have no interest in the GdlR Project. Provided it is not in breach of the Option Agreement, Minera Alamos may at its discretion advance the above payment schedule.
Subject to Minera Alamos timely making all the option payments, and fulfilling its other obligations with respect to the Option Agreement, we will transfer 100% of the shares of the Company’s 100% owned subsidiary Minera Gold Stake S.A. de C.V., the entity which owns the GdlR Project, to Minera Alamos and the Open-Pit NSR and Underground NSR will be granted to us.
If Minera Alamos discovers, and decides to develop, an underground mine at the GdlR Project and we exercise the Back-in Right, we and Minera Alamos have agreed to form a joint venture to develop and operate the underground mine. If the joint venture is formed, the Underground NSR will terminate.
In October 2018, the Company agreed to extend the due date for the second $1,500 option payment for the GdlR Project by six months to April 23, 2019. As consideration for the deferral, the Company received an additional $150 in cash, $50 of which was paid to Vista on October 24, 2018 and $100 of which was paid on January 23, 2019. In addition, Minera Alamos agreed to pay interest at a rate of 1.5% per month on the unpaid balance of the $1,500 payment beginning January 24, 2019.
Guadalupe de los Reyes is without known mineral reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 and the Company does not consider it a material mineral property at the time of this report.
ITEM 3.