ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Detailed information is contained herein with respect to the Maverick Springs and Mountain View projects, the Hycroft mine, the Long Valley project, the Paredones Amarillos and Amayapampa projects. The Corporation holds the Maverick Springs, Mountain View and Long Valley projects through wholly-owned subsidiaries Vista Gold Holdings Inc. and Vista Nevada Corp.; the Hycroft mine is held through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Vista Gold Holdings Inc., Hycroft Resources Development, Inc. and Hycroft Lewis Mine, Inc.; Paredones Amarillos is held through its wholly owned subsidiary Minera Paredones Amarillos S.A. de C.V.; Amayapampa is held through wholly-owned subsidiaries, Vista Gold (Antigua) Corp., Compania Inversora Vista S.A., Minera Nueva Vista S.A. Estimates of reserves and mineralization herein are subject to the effect of changes in metal prices and to the risks inherent in mining and processing operations.
MAVERICK SPRINGS
The Maverick Springs project is located in northeast Nevada at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend belt of gold-silver mineralization, approximately half-way between Elko and Ely, Nevada. The property consists of 86 claims with a total area of approximately 3,900 acres.
On October 7, 2002, the Corporation completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in the Maverick Springs gold and silver project and the Mountain View gold project (described below) from Newmont Mining Corporation (Newmont), and its wholly-owned subsidiary Newmont Capital Limited. To acquire the interest, the Corporation paid cash of $250,000 and issued of 141,243 equity units to Newmont. Newmont retains a 1.5% net smelter returns royalty; and on October 7, 2003 the Corporation will issue $500,000 in common shares to Newmont, together with an equivalent number of two year warrants. In addition, the Corporation must complete 20,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004 and an additional 30,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2006. The Corporation may terminate this agreement at any time after October 7, 2004. After October 7, 2006, Newmont has a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the project, by paying to the Corporation twice the amount that the Corporation has spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont exercises this right, Newmont will relinquish its 1.5% net smelter returns royalty. (See also Consolidated Financial Statements--Note 3).
Maverick Springs is subject to a lease agreement, the Artemis lease, between Newmont and Artemis Explorations Ltd. The lease was entered into on October 1, 2001 and the key terms include: payment of advanced minimum royalties of $50,000 on October 1, 2003, and $100,000 on October 1, 2004 and each year thereafter while the agreement is in effect; work commitments of 6,400 feet of exploration drilling, on or before October 1 in each of 2002 (extended by agreement to November 15, 2002), 2003 and 2004, and a
preliminary economic evaluation is to be conducted by October 1, 2004; and a net smelter returns royalty based on a sliding scale ranging from 2% to 6%, depending on gold and silver prices at the time of production.
On November 7, 2002, the Corporation entered into a non-binding letter of intent with respect to granting Silver Standard Resources Inc. (SSRI) an option to acquire the Corporation's interest in the silver resources hosted in the Maverick Springs project. The Corporation will retain its 100% interest in the gold resources. Completion of this transaction is subject to regulatory approvals, and negotiation and execution of a definitive agreement. The agreement with SSRI will be subject to the terms of the purchase agreement between Newmont and the Corporation. Under the proposed agreement, SSRI will pay $1.5 million over four years including a payment of $300,000 at closing. The remaining $1.2 million will be used to fund exploration programs, land holding costs and option payments. SSRI and the Corporation will form a committee through which they will jointly manage exploration of the Maverick Springs project. The Corporation will be the operator and have a 45% vote on the committee, and SSRI will have a 55% vote. After SSRI has completed its $1.5 million in payments, costs will be shared by the two corporations on the same ratio as established for operation of the management committee: Vista--45% / SSRI--55%, subject to standard dilution provisions. (See also Consolidated Financial Statements--Note 20).
In November 2002, the Corporation completed a 7,020-foot drill program on its Maverick Springs project. The program consisted of seven vertical reverse circulation holes, stepped out 500 feet to 2,200 feet from previously identified mineralization. All seven holes encountered flat-lying mineralization, predominantly oxidized to depths of up to 900 feet. The program outlined continuous mineralization in a 2,200-foot by 1,200-foot area, immediately adjacent to known gold-silver mineralization. With additional in-fill drilling, this newly outlined mineralization has the potential to significantly increase the mineralized material. The Corporation expects to complete approximately 10,000 feet of drilling in 2003.
GEOLOGY
Maverick Springs can be classified as a Carlin-type or sediment/carbonate hosted disseminated silver-gold deposit. Sediment hosted deposits are common within northern Nevada, although the systems are usually gold dominated with relatively minor amounts of silver. Silver and gold mineralization at Maverick Springs has been interpreted as a roughly antiformal or arch-shaped zone with an axis that plunges shallowly to the south and seems to flatten to horizontal over the northern half of the deposit. The limbs of the arch dip shallowly to moderately at 10-30 DEG. to the east and west. Overall, the mineralized zone is elongate in the north-south direction with a length of over 6,000 feet, a width of up to 3,000 feet, and a thickness of commonly 100-300 feet.
Mineralization consists of micron-sized silver and gold with related pyrite, stibnite and arsenic sulphides. It is usually associated with intense fracturing and brecciation, with or without accompanying whole-rock silicification or stockwork quartz.
Alteration consists of pervasive decalcification, weak to intense silicification and weak alunitic argillization. Massive jasperoid is common in surface exposures and in drill core. Oxidation has affected all sulphides on surface and is pervasive to a depth of at least 400 feet, intermittent to 900 feet, and generally absent below 1,000 feet.
Based on a third-party technical study completed by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia the Maverick Springs project contains approximately 97.1 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.011 ounces of gold per ton and 0.98 ounces of silver per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.005 ounces of gold per ton.
MOUNTAIN VIEW
The Mountain View property is located in northwest Nevada near the Blackrock Desert. The property is approximately 15 miles northwest of Gerlach, Nevada in Washoe County; it straddles the boundary
between the Squaw Valley and Banjo topographic quadrangles. The property currently consists of 127 claims with a total area of approximately 2,360 acres.
The Corporation's acquisition of the Mountain View property was completed along with that of the Maverick Springs property, as described above. To acquire the interest, the Corporation paid cash of $50,000 and issued 56,497 equity units to Newmont Capital; and Newmont retains a 1.5% net smelter returns royalty. In addition, the Corporation must complete 4,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2003 and an additional 4,000 feet of drilling before October 7, 2004. The Corporation may terminate this agreement at any time after October 7, 2003. After October 7, 2006, Newmont has a one-time right to acquire a 51% interest in the project, by paying to the Corporation twice the amount that the Corporation has spent on the project, including acquisition costs. In the event that Newmont exercises this right, Newmont will relinquish its 1.5% net smelter returns royalty (see also Consolidated Financial Statements--Note 3).
Newmont's interest in the Mountain View property is subject to a lease known as the Wittkopp lease and two other royalty arrangements, the principal terms of which are: the Wittkopp lease grants a 50% interest to Newmont in all claims, with a few exceptions where a 5% interest is granted; and the lessee may purchase the remaining interest in the claims for $250,000 at any time. The lessee is obligated to purchase the remaining 50% for $250,000 on achieving commercial production. Also, the lessee shall pay a 1% net smelter returns royalty during production, with advance minimum payments of $25,000 per year. Advanced royalties are deductible from the net smelter returns royalty and cease upon purchase of the remaining interest from the Wittkopps. A 1% net smelter returns royalty also applies to certain other claims.
The Corporation expects to complete 4,000 feet of drilling in 2003.
GEOLOGY
The dominant rock types in the area are Miocene volcanics and interbedded volcaniclastic sediments. Minor greenschist facies Permo-Triassic strata occur to the northeast and a large body of granodiorite makes up the bulk of the Granite Range to the east and south.
The Miocene lithologies consist of mafic tuffs, rhyolite tuffs and flows, volcaniclastic sediments and basalts. These units are separated from the Granite Range to the east by a range front normal fault that dips steeply to the southwest. The gold mineralization is hosted by a unit known as the Severance rhyolite that is sandwiched between the range front fault to the northeast and older Tertiary tuffs, flows and volcaniclastic sediments to the southwest.
Structure on the property is dominated by northwest and northeast trending faults. Major fault offsets occur along the range-front fault system and these are offset by the northeast trending structures. Recent alluvium is offset by the range front faults.
Based on a third-party technical study completed by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia, the Mountain View project contains approximately 27.7 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.017 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.006 ounces of gold per ton.
HYCROFT MINE
The Hycroft mine and related facilities are located 54 miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. The Corporation acquired the Lewis mine in early 1987 and completed construction of the adjacent Crofoot mine project in April 1988. Mining operations at the Hycroft mine were suspended in December 1998, and the site was placed on care and maintenance. Gold production, from continued leaching and rinsing of the heap leach pads, continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002 the amount of gold recovered was not material, as expected. The mine is currently on care and maintenance.
OPERATING STATISTICS
Operating statistics for the Hycroft mine for the period 1998 to 2002 were as follows:
- ------------------------
(1) Ore processed means ore placed on pads but not necessarily leached during the year.
(2) Cash operating costs are composed of all direct mining expenses including inventory changes, refining and transportation costs, less by-product silver credits.
GEOLOGY AND ORE RESERVES
The Hycroft mine is located on the western flank of the Kamma Mountains. The deposit is hosted in a volcanic eruptive breccia and conglomerates associated with the Tertiary Kamma Mountain volcanics. The volcanics are mainly acidic to intermediate tuffs, flows and coarse volcaniclastic rocks. Fragments of these units dominate the clasts in the eruptive breccia. Volcanic rocks have been block-faulted by dominant north-trending structures, which have affected the distribution of alteration and mineralization. The Central Fault and East Fault control the distribution of mineralization and subsequent oxidation. A post-mineral range-front fault separates the orebody from the adjacent Pleistocene Lahontan Lake sediments in the Black Rock Desert. The geological events have created a physical setting ideally suited to the open-pit, heap-leach mining operation at the Hycroft mine. The heap leach method is widely used in the southwestern United States and allows the economical treatment of oxidized low-grade ore deposits in large volumes.
The known gold mineralization within the Crofoot and Lewis properties extends for a distance of three miles in a north-south direction by 1.5 miles in an east-west direction. Mineralization extends to a depth of less than 330 feet in the outcropping to near-outcropping portion of the deposit on the northwest side to over 990 feet in the Brimstone deposit in the east. Not all the mineralization is oxidized and the depth of oxide ore varies considerably over the area of mineralization.
The Crofoot and Lewis properties together comprise approximately 12,230 acres. The Crofoot property, originally held under two leases, covers approximately 3,544 acres. The Lewis property, which virtually surrounds the Crofoot property, is held through a lease that covers approximately 8,686 acres. The mine is accessible by road and has access to adequate supplies of water and power.
The leasehold interest in the Lewis property extends until January 1, 2013 or for so long thereafter as commercial mining operations continue on the property. The Lewis lease provides for the payment to the lessor of a 5% net smelter return royalty on gold production. The royalty increases for ore grades above 0.05 ounce per ton and is offset by annual advance minimum royalties. The Corporation has the right to commingle the ore from the Lewis property with ore from the adjoining Crofoot property under an agreement with the lessor of the Lewis property.
Gold production from the Brimstone deposit, the largest ore deposit at the Hycroft mine, had consistently exceeded projections. During 1999 and 2000, the Corporation conducted a $0.6 million exploration program to determine the reasons for the excess gold production, and to re-estimate the grade and tons of the reserves in the Brimstone deposit. Mineral Resources Development, Inc. ("MRDI"), an independent
consultant was retained to assist with the evaluation and to provide an independent review of the recalculated mineable reserves. During the period 1996 through 1998, gold mined from the north end of the Brimstone deposit exceeded planned production by 47,090 ounces, or 26%. The excess gold production was a result of mining 13% more ore tons at a 12% higher average grade than predicted in the exploration reserve model.
To evaluate the potential for a similar favorable variance in the remaining Brimstone mineralized material, nine diamond drill holes for a total of 4,870 feet and 11 reverse-circulation drill holes for a total of 5,540 feet were completed in the unmined southern portion of the Brimstone deposit. Seventeen of the 20 holes were twin holes, which were used to establish an adjustment (upgrade) factor for the remaining Brimstone mineralized material. Working with MRDI engineers, a gold-grade enhancement of 25% was estimated. Based on technical study completed by MRDI, Brimstone contains 56.0 million tons at an average grade of 0.0184 ounces of gold per ton, using a cut-off grade of 0.007 ounces per ton.
In 2000, the Corporation completed a study of the ore reserves in the Brimstone deposit. Proven and probable reserves contained within the Brimstone mineralized material described above, total 23,791,000 tons of ore with an average gold content of 0.0204 ounces per ton, containing 486,000 ounces of gold. Ore reserve calculations were based upon a gold price of $300 per ounce and an economic cut-off grade equivalent to 0.007 ounces per ton.
Extraction dilution at the Hycroft mine is negligible due to the large size of the pit and the continuity of the ore body. Metallurgical recovery of gold from run-of-mine leaching of the Brimstone ore is projected to be 57% and the planned pit would have a stripping ratio of 1.2-to-1.
EXPLORATION
There is significant potential to extend the oxide mineralization to the south, along strike, at both the Central Fault and Brimstone deposits, but the greatest upside lies in the largely unexplored sulfide mineralization below the Brimstone deposit, as well as higher grade intercepts along the Central Fault.
Current mineralized material at Brimstone is limited to the oxide cap of an apparently large but previously unexplored gold-bearing sulfide system. Two diamond drill holes, drilled in 1996 and earlier, have intercepted mineralized sulfides averaging 0.023 ounces per ton gold and 0.5 ounces per ton silver over intervals exceeding 500 feet in thickness. In 1996, the Corporation also intercepted 30 feet of gold mineralization in drill hole 95-2728. This intercept assayed 0.155 ounces per ton gold at a true depth of 310 feet below surface. The hole terminated in this mineralization; the true width of the mineralization is not known.
LONG VALLEY
The Long Valley gold project is located in the Inyo National Forest, about 7 miles east of the town of Mammoth Lakes, in Mono County, California. The property consists of 95 contiguous, unpatented mining claims that cover an area of approximately 1,800 acres.
The Corporation has an option to acquire 100% of the Long Valley project from Standard Industrial Minerals, Inc. (Standard). Under the terms of the option agreement, the Corporation would pay Standard $750,000 over five years, with annual payments to be due as follows: $100,000 due on each of January 15, 2003, 2004, and 2005; $200,000 due on January 15, 2006, and $250,000 due on January 15, 2007. The Corporation has made the January 2003 payment (see Consolidated Financial Statements--Note 20). The Corporation retains the right to terminate the agreement at any time, and has no work commitments on the project.
During the period of 1994 through 1997, Royal Gold, Inc. (Royal) drilled 615 reverse circulation and 10 core holes at the Long Valley property. During this time, Royal also completed metallurgical investigations, preliminary engineering studies, including resource estimations, and initiated baseline-type
environmental studies of the biological, water, and archeological resource of the area. The Corporation has acquired all related data from Royal in exchange for a 1% net smelter return royalty to Royal. The database contains 896 drill holes, totaling 268,275 feet. The majority of holes were drilled using reverse circulation methods. Gold was primarily analyzed by fire assay, with grade determinations by atomic absorption.
GEOLOGY
The Long Valley project claims are contained entirely within the early Pleistocene-age Long Valley Caldera, which has been dated at about 760,000 years old. The caldera is an elongated east-west oval depression measuring some 10 miles by 20 miles and is related to eruption of the Bishop Tuff, which are covered by younger rocks within the caldera.
The Long Valley gold mineralization is located near the center of the caldera and is underlain by lithologic units related to the caldera formation and its subsequent resurgence. Associated with resurgent doming is a sequence of interbedded volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks which were deposited in a lacustrine setting within the caldera. These rocks consist of sediment (siltstones through conglomerates) and debris-flow deposits, with local deposits of intercalated silica sinter and rhyolite flows and dikes. All of these lithologies have been altered and/or mineralized to variable degrees. Intruding the generally flat-lying lake sediments are several rhyolite domes that have been dated form 200,000 to 300,000 years in age.
The north-south trending Hilton Creek fault zone appears to define the eastern limit of the resurgent dome within the central part of the Long Valley Caldera and extends outside the caldera to the south. Offset along this fault appears to be variable and suggests that fault activity along this zone may be episodic in nature.
Gold and silver mineralization at Long Valley appears to fall under the general classification of an epithermal, low sulfidation type deposit. Several areas, termed the North, Central, South, Southeast, and Hilton Creek zones, on the Long Valley property are mineralized with low grades of gold and silver. The mineralized zones are generally north-south trending, up to 8,000 ft in length with widths ranging from 500 ft to 1,500 ft. The tabular bodies are generally flat-lying or have a shallow easterly dip. Mineralization is typically from 50 to 200 ft thick and, in the South and Southeast zones, is exposed at or very near the surface. The top of the Hilton Creek zone is covered by 20 to 50 feet of alluvium. The majority of the mineralization discovered to date is located in the Hilton Creek zone.
Gold and silver mineralization is quite continuous throughout the zones and is well defined above a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces per ton. Within the continuous zones of low-grade gold mineralization (above 0.010 ounces per ton) are numerous zones of higher grade mineralization above 0.050 ounces per ton, particularly in the Hilton Creek zone, which may relate to zones of enhanced structural preparation. Mineralized zones are typically correlated with zones of more intense clay alteration or argillization and/or silicification.
Based on a third-party technical study by Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada, the Long Valley project contains approximately 101.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.018 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.010 ounces of gold per ton.
PAREDONES AMARILLOS
Paredones Amarillos is located 65 km southeast of the city of La Paz, in the Mexican state of Baja California Sur. The project area covers over 13,784 acres.
The Corporation acquired 100% of the project on August 29, 2002 from Viceroy Resource Corporation (Viceroy). To acquire the project, the Corporation paid cash of Cdn $1.0 million and issued 303,030 equity units to Viceroy; on August 29, 2003 the Corporation will pay Viceroy an additional Cdn $0.5 million (see also Consolidated Financial Statements--Notes 3 and 20).
The Paredones Amarillos project has been a significant exploration target since the 1980s. In 1996, Echo Bay Mines Limited (EBM), completed a bankable feasibility study for an open pit mine on the project. The study was completed using a $375 per ounce gold price and included a proven and probable reserve of approximately 49 million tons with an average gold grade of 0.031 ounces per ton, containing approximately 1.5 million ounces. As a result of the subsequent decline in gold prices, start-up was postponed. EBM holds a 2% net profits interest on the project. The Corporation intends to review the principal operating assumptions upon which the EBM study was based to identify opportunities to improve the economics of this project.
The project holds environmental authorizations for the purpose of: project development including access road, power line, telephone communications, and infrastructure to supply water; construction and operation of a tailings dam; and disposal of tailings, construction of a mill, and installation of three pumping stations.
GEOLOGY
General geology consists of diorite roof pendants intruded by a granodiorite batholith with local low and high-angle fault zones. A north-east striking, south-east dipping low angle fault zone is the main host of gold mineralization at Paredones Amarillos. Movement along this structure has been characterized as reverse, resulting from compression. Secondary, high angle faulting is thought to control the higher-grade mineralization at the project.
The known gold mineralized material occupies an inverted U-shaped block with an approximate strike length of 3,600 feet east-west, a width of approximately 1,000 feet north-south, and a thickness of approximately 100 feet. The apex of the "U" is near the center of EBM's proposed pit with the legs forming the east and west pit lobes.
Based on a third-party technical study completed by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants of Vancouver, British Columbia the Paredones Amarillos project contains approximately 67.4 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.030 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.015 ounces of gold per ton.
AMAYAPAMPA
The Amayapampa project is located 186 miles southeast of La Paz in the Chayanta Municipality, Bustillos Province, Department of Potosi, in southwestern Bolivia. Access is via 167 miles of paved road from La Paz to Machacamarca near Oruro, followed by 62 miles of gravel road to Lagunillas, then nine miles of dirt road to Amayapampa. The Amayapampa property is situated within the moderately rugged Eastern Cordilleran region of Bolivia with elevations at the property varying from 12,300 to 13,450 feet above sea level. Amayapampa consists of 24 mining concessions covering 1,989 acres plus an additional 16,803 acres in regional exploration and exploitation concessions. The project is currently on care and maintenance.
GEOLOGY AND ORE RESERVES
The Amayapampa deposit underlies a north-northwest trending ridge approximately 0.3 miles east of the town of Amayapampa. The deposit is defined by about 48 diamond drill holes; 96 reverse-circulation drill holes; and 315 underground channel samples totaling 17,585 feet from more than 200 accessible cross-cuts in 43 different levels and sub-levels extending over a vertical distance of 682 feet. The deposit is approximately 1,970 feet in strike length, 98 to 230 feet in width and has an overall dip of the mineralized envelope of 80 to 90 degrees west. The depth extent of continuous mineralization is in excess of 656 feet to about the 12,795-foot elevation, although some mineralization is present below this depth. Gold occurs free and associated with sulfides in a structural zone in which quartz veins were emplaced then sheared prior to introduction of sulfides and gold mineralizing solutions.
The host rocks are composed of Ordovician black shales, sandstones, and siltstones, which were weakly metamorphosed to argillites, quartzites, and siltites, respectively. The Amayapampa project is located along the east flank of a north-south trending regional anticline near the top of the Ordovician sequence. Bedding dips are steep at 60 to 80 degrees west, with the east limb of the anticline being overturned and thus, also dipping steeply west.
The mineralized envelope is best described as a structural zone, in which quartz vein were emplaced along a preferential fracture direction.
Most faults, shears and fractures are north-northeast to north-northwest trending and steeply dipping, both east and west, at 60 to 90 degrees. Quartz veins predominantly dip east. Locally, within the zone of mineralization, flat, thrust-like faults are present, which have offset quartz veins to a minor extent. These flat faults, commonly west-dipping at 40 to 45 degrees, are not generally mappable outside of the main structural zone, which hosts the gold mineralization. A west dipping, 45-degree fault projects into the pit on the northeast side of the deposit and was intersected by two vertical, geotechnical core holes. The base of mineralization may also be slightly offset by a similar west-dipping, 45-degree fault.
Oxidation effects are pervasive from the surface to depths of 66 to 98 feet, with only partial oxidization below those depths. Hydrothermal alteration effects evident in fresh rock are minor, and occur as coarse sericite (muscovite) in thin (0.08 to 0.20 inch) selvages along some quartz veins. In addition, chlorite is present in and adjacent to some quartz veins, but this presence may be a product of low-grade metamorphism. Alteration effects are minimal overall, except for surface oxidization.
Mineralization is composed of quartz veins and sulfides and both constitute a visual guide to ore. Quartz veins are a locus for gold mineralization. Quartz veins are typically a few centimeters to two feet in width and commonly occur as sub-parallel vein sets. The strike extent can be 164 to 246 feet or more for any one vein or vein set, but the dip extent is not as well established and probably ranges up to 66 to 98 feet. Multiple vein sets are present in the overall mineralized envelope and veins commonly pinch and swell along strike and down dip.
Sulfide mineralization, hosted by multiple fractures is composed of predominantly pyrite within and adjacent to quartz veins. The total sulfide concentration for the overall mineralized zone is estimated at 3% to 5%. Petrographic examination of the sulfide mineralization shows pyrite to dominate at plus 95% of the total sulfides; arsenopyrite is also present, as are minor amounts of chalcopyrite, galena, sphalerite, stibnite and tetrahedrite. Gold is present as free gold in association with pyrite, on fractures within pyrite and attached to the surface of pyrite and is often visible as discrete grains on fractures in quartz and argillite. Gold grains exhibit a large size-range, with much of the gold being relatively coarse at 40 to 180 microns. All gold grains display irregular shapes with large surface areas. No gold was noted to be encapsulated in either quartz or sulfide. The content of gold grains was verified as over 97% gold by scanning-electron-microprobe analysis.
District-scale exploration potential exists for defining styles of gold mineralization similar to Amayapampa, which could be developed as satellite ore bodies. In addition, at least 15 drill holes beneath the planned Amayapampa pit suggest the presence of four higher-grade shoots.
In 2000 an update and additional optimization study was completed on a feasibility study originally completed in 1997. Based on a technical study completed by Mine Reserve Associates, Inc., an independent consultant, total mineralized material is 14.2 million tons with an average grade of 0.047 ounces of gold per ton. Included in this mineralization are proven and probable reserves of 10.2 million tons grading 0.051 ounces per ton, containing 526,000 ounces of gold. The reserve calculation is based on a gold price of $300 per ounce. Reserves include extraction dilution of 5% of the tons and 1% of the total ounces. Extraction dilution does not result in any losses of recoverable gold.
ITEM 3.