Item 2. Properties - Energy Holdings.
Fuel supply arrangements are designed to balance Global's ability to meet long-term supply needs with price considerations. Global's project affiliates utilize long-term contracts and spot market purchases to mitigate their exposure. Global believes that there are adequate fuel supplies for the anticipated needs of its generating projects. Global also believes that transmission access and capacity are sufficient at this time for its generation projects in operation or development.
Resources
Resources focuses on providing energy infrastructure financing in developed countries. Resources invests in energy-related financial transactions and manages a diversified portfolio of assets, including leveraged leases, operating leases, leveraged buyout funds, limited partnerships and marketable securities. Resources seeks to invest in transactions where its expertise and understanding of the inherent risks and operating characteristics of energy-related assets provide a competitive advantage. Resources currently expects to concentrate its future investment activity on energy-related financial transactions.
As of December 31, 2001, Resources had approximately $2.4 billion or 79% of its total assets invested in leveraged leases of energy-related plant and equipment. The remainder of Resources' portfolio is further diversified across a wide spectrum of asset types and business sectors including leveraged leases of aircraft, railcars and real estate, limited partnership interests in project finance transactions and leveraged buyout and venture funds. Approximately 95% of the lease investments in Resources' portfolio are with lessees that have investment grade credit ratings. Resources does not manage any fund or partnership in its portfolio. The timing of distributions from certain investments is not within Resources' control.
Energy Technologies
Energy Technologies is an energy management company that constructs, operates and maintains HVAC systems for and provides energy-related engineering, consulting and mechanical contracting services to industrial and commercial customers in the Northeastern and Middle Atlantic United States. As of December 31, 2001, Energy Technologies had assets of $290 million.
We are evaluating the future prospects of Energy Technologies' business model and its fit in the PSEG portfolio given the slower pace of retail energy deregulation in the markets in which we are active, as well as, the substandard performance of Energy Technologies since its inception.
Services
Services is a New Jersey Corporation with its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Services provides management and administrative services to PSEG and its subsidiaries.
RISK FACTORS
The following factors should be considered when reviewing our business and are relied upon by us in issuing any forward-looking statements. Such factors could affect actual results and cause such results to differ materially
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of us. Some or all of these factors may apply to us and our subsidiaries.
Because a Portion of Our Business is Conducted Outside the United States, Adverse International Developments Could Negatively Impact Our Business
A key component of our business strategy is the development, acquisition and operation of projects outside the United States. The economic and political conditions in certain countries where Global has interests, or in which Global is or could be exploring development or acquisition opportunities, present risks that may be different than those found in the United States including: delays in permitting and licensing, construction delays and interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy. Changes in the legal environment in foreign countries in which Global may develop or acquire projects could make it more difficult to obtain non-recourse project refinancing on suitable terms and could impair Global's ability to enforce its rights under agreements relating to such projects.
Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries in which Global may develop or acquire projects in the future, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect Global's ability to convert its cash distributions to United States Dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds offshore from such countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any such country may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to approve distributions to foreign investors. Although Global generally seeks to structure power purchase contracts and other project revenue agreements to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, United States Dollars or a currency freely convertible into United States Dollars, its ability to do so in all cases may be limited.
Credit, Commodity, and Financial Market Risks May Have an Adverse Impact
The revenues generated by the operation of our generating stations are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. Our generation output will either be used to satisfy our wholesale contracts or be sold into the competitive power markets or under other bilateral contracts. Participants in the competitive power markets are not guaranteed any specified rate of return on their capital investments through recovery of mandated rates payable by purchasers of electricity. Although a majority of our revenue is generated by the current BGS contract with PSE&G (which expires on July 31, 2002 and is replaced with various contracts with direct bidders of the New Jersey BGS Auction) and from bilateral contracts for the sale of electricity with third-party LSEs and power marketers, generation revenues and results of operations will be dependent upon prevailing market prices for energy, capacity and ancillary services in the markets we serve.
Among the factors that will influence the market prices for energy, capacity and ancillary services are:
o the extent of additional supplies of capacity, energy and ancillary services from current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generation facilities that may be able to produce electricity less expensively; o changes in the rules set by regulatory authorities with respect to the manner in which electricity sales will be priced; o transmission congestion in PJM and/or other competitive markets; o the operation of nuclear generation plants in PJM and other competitive markets beyond their presently expected dates of decommissioning; o prevailing market prices for enriched uranium, fuel oil, coal and natural gas and associated transportation costs; o fluctuating weather conditions; o reduced growth rate in electricity usage as a result of factors such as national and regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs; and o changes in regulations applicable to PJM and other Independent System Operators (ISO).
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
As a result of the BGS auction, Power has entered into a contract with the direct suppliers of the New Jersey electric utilities, including PSE&G, commencing August 1, 2002. These bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk. This credit risk relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their payment obligations for the power delivered under each BGS contract. Depending upon the creditworthiness of the counterparty, this risk may be substantially higher than the risk associated with potential nonpayment by PSE&G under the BGS contract expiring July 31, 2002. Any failure to collect these payments under the new BGS contracts with counterparties could have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.
Energy Obligations, Available Supply and Trading Risks May Have an Adverse Impact
Our energy trading and marketing business frequently involves the establishment of energy trading positions in the wholesale energy markets on long-term and short-term bases. To the extent that we have forward purchase contracts to provide or purchase energy in excess of demand, a downturn in the markets is likely to result in a loss from a decline in the value of such long positions as we attempt to sell energy in a falling market. Conversely, to the extent that we enter into forward sales contracts to deliver energy we do not own, or take short positions in the energy markets, an upturn in the energy markets is likely to expose us to losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring energy in a rising market.
If the strategy we utilize to hedge our exposures to these various risks is not effective, we could incur significant losses. Our substantial energy trading positions can also be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the energy markets that, in turn, depends on various factors, including weather in various geographical areas and short-term supply and demand imbalances, which cannot be predicted with any certainty.
In addition, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties will not perform their obligations. Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures as well as counterparty credit requirements, and will continue to do so in the future, we can give no assurance that losses from our energy trading activities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or net cash flows.
In connection with its energy trading business, Power must meet certain credit quality standards as are required by counterparties. Standard industry contracts generally require trading counterparties to maintain investment grade rating. These same contracts provide reciprocal benefits to Power. If Power loses its investment grade credit rating, ER&T would have to provide collateral (letters of credit or cash), which would significantly impact the energy trading business. This would increase our costs of doing business and limit our ability to successfully conduct our energy trading operations.
The Electric Energy Industry is Undergoing Substantial Change
The electric energy industry in the State of New Jersey, across the country and around the world is undergoing major transformations. As a result of deregulation and the unbundling of energy supplies and services, the electric energy markets are now open to competition from other suppliers in most markets. Increased competition from these suppliers could have a negative impact on our wholesale and retail sales. We are affected by many issues that are common to the electric industry such as:
o ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief, cost recovery, including unsecuritized stranded costs, and other necessary regulatory approvals; o deregulation, the unbundling of energy supplies and services and the establishment of a competitive energy marketplace for products and services; o energy sales retention and growth; o revenue stability and growth; o nuclear operations and decommissioning; o increased capital investments attributable to environmental regulations; o managing energy trading operations; o ability to complete development or acquisition of current and future investments;
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
o managing electric generation and distribution operations in locations outside of traditional utility service territory; o exposure to market price fluctuations and volatility; o regulatory restrictions on affiliate transactions; and o debt and equity market concerns.
Generation Operating Performance May Fall Below Projected Levels
The risks associated with operating power generation facilities (each of which could result in performance below expected capacity levels) include:
o breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; o disruptions in the transmission of electricity; o labor disputes; o fuel supply interruptions; o limitations which may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; o permit limitations; and o operator error or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, acts of war or terrorism or other similar occurrences.
Operation below expected capacity levels may result in lost revenues, increased expenses and penalties. Individual facilities may be unable to meet operating and financial obligations resulting in reduced cash flow.
If Our Operating Performance or Cash Flow from Minority Interests Falls Below Projected Levels, We May Not Be Able to Service Our Debt
The risks associated with operating power generation facilities include the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes and fuel supply interruption, each of which could result in performance below expected capacity levels. Operation below expected capacity levels may result in lost revenues, increased expenses, higher maintenance costs and penalties, in which case there may not be sufficient cash available to service project debt. In addition, many of Global's generation projects rely on a single fuel supplier and a single customer for the purchase of the facility's output under a long term contract. While Global generally has liquidated damage provisions in its contracts, the default by a supplier under a fuel contract or a customer under a power purchase contract could adversely affect the facility's cash generation and ability to service project debt.
Countries in which Global owns and operates electric and gas distribution facilities may impose financial penalties if reliability performance standards are not met. In addition, inefficient operation of the facilities may cause lost revenue and higher maintenance expenses, in which case there may not be sufficient cash available to service project debt.
Our ability to control investments in which we own a minority interest is limited. Assuming a minority ownership role presents additional risks, such as not having a controlling interest over operations and material financial and operating matters or the ability to operate the assets more efficiently. As such, neither we nor Global are able to unilaterally cause dividends or distributions to be made to us or Global from these operations.
Minority investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us and our subsidiaries, including the possibility that a partner, majority investor or co-venturer might become bankrupt, may have different interests or goals, and may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or business objectives. Also, if no party has full control, there could be an impasse on decisions. In addition, certain investments of Resources are managed by unaffiliated entities which limits Resources' ability to control the activities or performance of such investments and managers.
Failure to Obtain Adequate and Timely Rate Relief May Have an Adverse Impact
As a public utility, PSE&G's rates are regulated by the BPU and the FERC. These rates are designed to recover its operating expenses and allow it to earn a fair return on its rate base, which primarily consists of its property, plant and equipment less various adjustments. These rates include its electric and gas tariff rates subject to regulation by the BPU as well as its transmission rates contained in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff subject to regulation by the FERC. PSE&G's base rates are set by the BPU for electric distribution and gas distribution and are effective until the time a new rate case is brought to the BPU. These base rate cases generally take place every few years. Certain limited categories of costs, such as societal benefits and gas residential commodity costs, are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically trued-up to actual costs and reset. If these costs exceed the amount included in PSE&G's adjustment charges, there will be a negative impact on cash flows. PSE&G's rates for electric transmission are subject to change based on policies and procedures established by the FERC.
If PSE&G's operating expenses (other than costs recovered through adjustment charges) exceed the amount included in its base rates or in its FERC jurisdictional rates, there will be a negative impact on earnings and operating cash flows.
Certain electric and gas distribution facilities of Global are rate-regulated enterprises. Rates charged to customers are established by governmental authorities and are currently sufficient to cover all operating costs and provide a return. However, in Argentina, we face considerable fiscal and cash uncertainties, including potential asset impairments, due to the current economic, political and social crisis. We can give no assurances that rates will, in the future, be sufficient to cover such costs and provide a return on Global's investment. In addition, future rates may not be adequate to provide cash flow to pay principal and interest on Global's subsidiaries' and affiliates' debt and to enable such subsidiaries and affiliates to comply with the terms of debt agreements.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
We and Our Subsidiaries are Subject to Substantial Competition From Well Capitalized Participants in the Worldwide Energy Markets
We and our subsidiaries are subject to substantial competition in the United States and in international markets from merchant generators, domestic and multi-national utility generators, fuel supply companies, engineering companies, equipment manufacturers and affiliates of other industrial companies. Restructuring of worldwide energy markets, including the privatization of government-owned utilities and the sale of utility-owned assets, is creating opportunities for, and substantial competition from, well-capitalized entities which may adversely affect our ability to make investments on favorable terms and achieve our growth objectives. Increased competition could contribute to a reduction in prices offered for power and could result in lower returns which may affect our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness, including short-term debt.
Deregulation may continue to accelerate the current trend toward consolidation among domestic utilities and could also result in the splitting of vertically-integrated utilities into separate generation, transmission and distribution businesses. As a result, additional competitors could become active in the merchant generation business. Resources faces competition from numerous well-capitalized investment and finance company affiliates of banks, utilities and industrial companies. Energy Technologies faces substantial competition from utilities and their affiliates, and HVAC and mechanical contractors.
Our Ability to Service Our Debt Could Be Limited
We are a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries and project affiliates. Accordingly, all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries and project affiliates which are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts when due on our debt or to make any funds available to us to pay such amounts. As a result, our debt will effectively be subordinated to all existing and future debt, trade creditors, and other liabilities of our subsidiaries and project affiliates and our rights and hence the rights of our creditors to participate in any distribution of assets of any such subsidiary or project affiliate upon its liquidation or reorganization or otherwise would be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary's or project affiliate's creditors, except to the extent that our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary or project affiliate may be recognized.
We depend on our subsidiaries' and project affiliates' cash flow and our access to capital in order to service our indebtedness. The project-related debt agreements of subsidiaries and project affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make cash distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. These restrictions may include achieving and maintaining financial performance or debt coverage ratios, absence of events of default, or priority in payment of other current or prospective obligations.
Our subsidiaries have financed some investments using non-recourse project level financing. Each non-recourse project financing is structured to be repaid out of cash flows provided by the investment. In the event of a default under a financing agreement which is not cured, the lenders would generally have rights to the related assets. In the event of foreclosure after a default, our subsidiary may lose its equity in the asset or may not be entitled to any cash that the asset may generate. Although a default under a project financing agreement will not cause a default with respect to our debt and that of our subsidiaries, it may materially affect our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness.
We can give no assurances that our current and future capital structure, operating performance or financial condition will permit us to access the capital markets or to obtain other financing at the times, in the amounts and on the terms necessary or advisable for us to successfully carry out our business strategy or to service our indebtedness.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
Power Transmission Facilities May Impact Our Ability to Deliver Our Output to Customers
If transmission is disrupted, or if transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver our electric energy products and grow our business may be adversely impacted. If a region's power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to generate revenues may be limited.
Regulatory Issues Significantly Impact Our Operations
The electric power generation business is subject to substantial regulation and permitting requirements from federal, state and local authorities. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in order to operate our generation stations.
We believe that we have obtained all material energy-related federal, state and local approvals including those required by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), currently required to operate our generation stations. Although not currently required, additional regulatory approvals may be required in the future due to a change in laws and regulations or for other reasons. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain any required regulatory approval that we may require in the future, or that we will be able to obtain any necessary extension in receiving any required regulatory approvals. If we fail to obtain or comply with any required regulatory approvals, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our generation stations or to sell electricity to third parties.
We are subject to pervasive regulation by the NRC with respect to the operation of our nuclear generation stations. Such regulation involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and environmental requirements. Continuous demonstrations to the NRC that plant operations meet applicable requirements are also required. The NRC has the ultimate authority to determine whether any nuclear generation unit may operate.
We can give no assurance that existing regulations will not be revised or reinterpreted, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us or any of our generation stations or that future changes in laws and regulations will not have a detrimental effect on our business.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
Environmental Regulation May Limit Our Operations
We are required to comply with numerous statutes, regulations and ordinances relating to the safety and health of employees and the public, the protection of the environment and land use. These statutes, regulations and ordinances are constantly changing. While we believe that we have obtained all material environmental-related approvals required as of the date hereof to own and operate our facilities or that such approvals have been applied for and will be issued in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional costs because of compliance with these requirements. Failure to comply with environmental statutes, regulations and ordinances could have a material effect on us, including potential civil or criminal liability and the imposition of clean-up liens or fines and expenditures of funds to bring our facilities into compliance.
We can give no assurance that we will be able to:
o obtain all required environmental approvals that we do not yet have or that may be required in the future; o obtain any necessary modifications to existing environmental approvals; o maintain compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and approvals; or recover any resulting costs through future sales.
Delay in obtaining or failure to obtain and maintain in full force and effect any such environmental approvals, or delay or failure to satisfy any applicable environmental regulatory requirements, could prevent construction of new facilities, operation of our existing facilities or sale of energy there from or could result in significant additional cost to us.
We Are Subject to More Stringent Environmental Regulation than Many of Our Competitors
Our facilities are subject to both federal and state pollution control requirements. Most of our generating facilities are located in the State of New Jersey. In particular, New Jersey's environmental programs are generally considered to be more stringent in comparison to similar programs in other states. As such, there may be instances where the facilities located in New Jersey are subject to more stringent and therefore, more costly pollution control requirements than competitive facilities in other states.
Insurance Coverage May Not Be Sufficient
We have insurance for our facilities, including all-risk property damage insurance, commercial general public liability insurance, boiler and machinery coverage, nuclear liability and, for our nuclear generating units, replacement power and business interruption insurance in amounts and with deductibles that we consider appropriate. We can give no assurance that such insurance coverage will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms nor that the insurance proceeds received for any loss of or any damage to any of our facilities will be sufficient to permit us to continue to make payments on our debt. Additionally, certain properties that we own may not be insured in the event of a terrorist activity.
Acquisition, Construction and Development Activities May Not Be Successful
We may seek to acquire, develop and construct new energy projects, the completion of any of which is subject to substantial risk. Such activity requires a significant lead time and requires us to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other development expenses in preparation for competitive bids or before it can be established whether a project is economically feasible.
The construction, expansion or refurbishment of a generation, transmission or distribution facility may involve equipment and material supply interruptions, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems and unanticipated cost overruns. The proceeds of any insurance, vendor warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover lost revenues, increased expenses or payments of liquidated damages. In addition, some power purchase contracts permit the customer to terminate the related contract, retain security posted by the developer as liquidated damages or change the payments to be made to the subsidiary or the project affiliate in
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
the event certain milestones, such as commencing commercial operation of the project, are not met by specified dates. If project start-up is delayed and the customer exercises these rights, the project may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its project financing agreements. We can give no assurance that we will obtain access to the substantial debt and equity capital required to develop and construct new generation projects or to refinance existing projects to supply anticipated future demand.
Changes in Technology May Make our Power Generation Assets Less Competitive
A key element of our business plan is that generating power at central power plants produces electricity at relatively low cost. There are other technologies that produce electricity, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic (solar) cells. It is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity to a level that is competitive with that of most central station electric production. If this were to happen, our market share could be eroded and the value of our power plants could be significantly impaired. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy electricity, thereby affecting our financial results.
Recession, Acts of War or Terrorism Could Have an Adverse Impact
Consequences of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States are difficult to predict. The consequences of a prolonged recession and market conditions may include the continued uncertainty of energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. We cannot predict the impact of any continued economic slowdown or fluctuating energy prices; however, such impact could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows.
Like other operators of major industrial facilities, our generation plants, fuel storage facilities and transmission and distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities that could result in disruption of our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and/or significant additional costs to repair, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation and net cash flows.
COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
The regulatory structure which has historically governed the electric and gas utility industries in the United States continues to be in transition. Deregulation is essentially complete in New Jersey and is complete or underway in certain other states in the Northeast and across the United States. States have acted independently to deregulate the electric and gas utility industries. Recent experience in California, with energy shortages, high costs and financial difficulties of utilities and the Enron bankruptcy have caused some states to re-evaluate and, in some cases, stop the move toward deregulation. The deregulation and restructuring of the nation's energy markets, the unbundling of energy and related services, the diverse strategies within the industry related to holding, buying or selling generation capacity and the anticipated resulting industry consolidation have a profound effect on us and our subsidiaries, providing us with new opportunities and exposing us to new risks (see Risk Factors and Overview of 2001 and Future Outlook of MD&A).
The National Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Policy Act) laid the groundwork for competition in the wholesale electricity markets in the United States. This legislation expanded the FERC's authority to order electric utilities to open their transmission systems to allow third-party suppliers to transmit, or "wheel," electricity over their lines. In 1996, FERC issued an order that resulted in expanded access to transmission lines, providing eligible third-party wholesale marketers clear transmission access. These actions have enabled power marketers, merchant generators, Exempt Wholesale Generators (EWGs) and utilities to compete actively in wholesale energy markets, consumers to have the right to choose their energy suppliers and competition to set the price of the generation component of electricity bills in deregulated areas.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
Internationally, many countries continue to privatize their electric and gas industries. These efforts include selling of government-owned transmission and distribution and gas assets. In addition, various countries have encouraged private foreign development of generating facilities.
PSE&G
As a regulated monopoly, PSE&G's electric and gas transmission and distribution business has minimal risks from competition. Also, there has been minimal financial impact on PSE&G's transmission and distribution business due to customers choosing an alternate electric or gas suppliers.
Power
In the regions where Power is the most active, most states have already begun the process of restructuring their electricity markets. As markets continue to evolve, several types of competitors have or will emerge in the markets in which Power participates. These competitors include merchant generators with or without trading capabilities, other utility affiliates that have formed generation and/or trading affiliates, aggregators, wholesale power marketers or combinations thereof. These participants will compete with one another buying and selling in wholesale power pools, entering into bilateral contracts and/or selling to aggregated retail customers. Power believes that its asset size and location, regional market knowledge and integrated functions will allow it to compete effectively in its selected markets.
Energy Holdings
Energy Holdings and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial competition in the United States as well as in the international markets from merchant generators, domestic and multi-national utility generators, fuel supply companies, energy marketers, engineering companies, equipment manufacturers, well capitalized investment and finance companies and affiliates of other industrial companies. Restructuring of worldwide energy markets, including the privatization of government-owned utilities and the sale of utility-owned assets, is creating opportunities for Energy Holdings, and likewise is creating substantial competition from well-capitalized entities which may adversely affect Energy Holdings' ability to make investments on favorable terms and achieve its growth objectives.
REGULATORY ISSUES
State Regulation
As a New Jersey public utility, PSE&G has been subject to comprehensive regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of intrastate rates and service and the issuance and sale of securities. As a participant in the ownership of certain transmission facilities in Pennsylvania, PSE&G is subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PPUC) in limited respects in regard to such facilities. PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings are not subject to direct regulation by the BPU, except potentially with respect to certain asset sales, transfers of control, reporting requirements and affiliate standards.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
PSE&G
New Jersey Energy Master Plan Proceedings, Securitization and Related Orders
Following the enactment of the Energy Competition Act, the BPU rendered its Final Order relating to PSE&G's rate unbundling, stranded costs and restructuring proceedings providing, among other things, for the transfer to an affiliate of all of PSE&G's electric generation facilities, plant and equipment for $2.443 billion and all other related property, including materials, supplies and fuel at the net book value thereof, together with associated rights and liabilities. PSE&G, pursuant to the Final Order, transferred its electric generating facilities and wholesale power contracts to Power and its subsidiaries on August 21, 2000 in exchange for a promissory note from Power in an amount equal to the purchase price of $2.786 billion. Power paid the promissory note on January 31, 2001 at which time the transferred assets were released from the lien of PSE&G's First and Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage).
The Energy Competition Act and the related BPU proceedings, including the Final Order, referred to as the Energy Master Plan Proceedings, opened the New Jersey energy markets to competition by allowing all New Jersey retail electric and gas customers to select their suppliers. For further discussion of the Energy Master Plan Proceedings, see Note 3. Regulatory Issues and Accounting Impacts of Deregulation of Notes.
In accordance with the Final Order, PSE&G reduced customer rates by 5% in August 1999, an additional 2% after the securitization transaction in February of 2001, another 2% in August 2001, and PSE&G is scheduled to reduce rates 4.9% in August 2002, for a total 13.9% rate reduction since August 1999. These rate reductions reduce the market transition charge (MTC) revenues that PSE&G remits to Power as part of its BGS contract.
BGS Auction
The BPU approved an auction to identify energy suppliers for our obligation beginning on August 1, 2002. On February 15, 2002 the BPU approved the BGS auction results and PSE&G secured contracts from a number of suppliers for its expected peak load of 9,600 MW. Under the BPU approved supply contracts, PSE&G will pay $.0511 per kWh to obtain electricity for customers for the period from August 1, 2002 to July 31, 2003. Customers will continue to pay below-market regulated rates (BGS shopping credit) for this one-year period. Under our current rate structure, the difference will be deferred and is expected to be recovered with interest in the future. PSE&G will sell the power it receives from NUG contracts into the wholesale energy market, which should offset this underrecovery. PSE&G estimates that the underrecovery relating to the BGS for the period ending July 31, 2003 will amount to approximately $250 million, with a net amount of $125 million after factoring in sales of power relating to NUG contracts.
If a supplier defaults on its obligation to provide energy to PSE&G, the energy needed for PSE&G to meets its requirements will be purchased at market prices in accordance with the procedures approved by the BPU. To the extent that the market prices exceed the auction contract price, the difference will be deferred and collected from PSE&G customers as provided in the BPU Order approving the auction process.
Electric Base Rate Case
In accordance with the Final Order, PSE&G is expected to file an electric base rate case during 2002 that would be effective on August 1, 2003. This case may impact our earnings and cash flows; however, PSE&G cannot predict the actual effects at this time.
Affiliate Standards
In February 2000, the BPU approved affiliate standards and fair competition standards which apply to transactions between a public utility and those of its affiliates that provide competitive services to retail customers in New Jersey. In March 2000, the BPU issued a written order (Affiliate Standards) related to these matters. PSE&G filed a compliance plan in June 2000 to describe the internal policy and procedures necessary to ensure compliance with such Affiliate Standards. The BPU has conducted an audit of New Jersey utilities' competitive activities and compliance with such Affiliate Standards and is expected to issue an order on the audit in 2002. The
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
adoption of Affiliate Standards did not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows.
Gas Unbundling
The Energy Competition Act also required that all customers have the ability to choose a competitive gas supplier. In 2000, the BPU issued a written order providing for the unbundling of firm rate schedules into commodity and transportation components and for changes in existing rate schedules. The new rates were implemented for all service provided on and after August 1, 2000.
The main features of the gas unbundling are: the development of a Societal Benefits Clause (SBC) to recover specific costs including, social programs, Demand Side Management costs (DSM), Remediation Adjustment Clause (RAC) and consumer education; the development of a Realignment Adjustment Charge to recover lost revenues incurred by PSE&G (subject to certain criteria) as a result of customers switching from commodity service to transportation service; the reallocation of approximately $40 million from transportation rates to commodity and balancing rates; an incentive of approximately 0.9 cents per therm for all customers who leave PSE&G to shop with a TPS and an additional incentive of 1.4 cents per therm for residential customers who leave PSE&G to shop with a TPS.
Gas Contract Transfer
On August 11, 2000, PSE&G filed a gas merchant restructuring plan with the BPU. On January 9, 2002, the BPU approved an amended stipulation which authorized the transfer of PSE&G's gas supply business, including its interstate capacity, storage and gas supply contracts to ER&T which will, under a requirements contract, provide gas supply to PSE&G to serve its Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) customers. The transfer is anticipated to take place in April 2002.
The gas contract transfer is expected to reduce volatility in PSE&G's cash flows. Gas residential commodity costs, are currently recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically trued-up to actual costs and reset. After the gas contract transfer, PSE&G will pay ER&T the amount PSE&G charges its gas distribution customers for the commodity. Industrial and commercial BGSS customers will be priced under PSE&G's Market Priced Gas Service (MPGS). Residential BGSS customers will remain under current pricing until April 1, 2004, after which, subject to further BPU approval, those residential gas customers would also move to MPGS service.
Gas Base Rate Case and Commodity Charges
The BPU has granted PSE&G authority to change the Monthly Pricing Mechanism (MPM) in its levelized gas adjustment clause (LGAC) to cover currently estimated gas price increases on a per month basis, exercisable in any month without an annual limit.
In May 2001, PSE&G filed a petition with the BPU for authority to revise its gas property depreciation rates (Depreciation Case). In this filing, PSE&G requested authority to implement its proposed depreciation rates simultaneously for book purposes and ratemaking purposes when the BPU implements new tariffs designed to recover the additional annual revenues resulting from the gas base rate case discussed below.
In May 2001, PSE&G filed a petition with the BPU requesting an increase in gas base rates of $171 million for gas delivery service (Gas Base Rate Case). The requested increase was for an overall gas revenue increase of 7.06% to reflect current costs. PSE&G filed the Gas Base Rate Case because the gas base rates, in effect since November 1991, did not reasonably reflect capital investments and other costs required to maintain the gas utility infrastructure. The BPU consolidated the Depreciation Case and the Gas Base Rate Case.
In November 2001, PSE&G filed and served its 2001 LGAC filing, requesting approximately a 10% reduction. PSE&G requested that such filing be retained by the BPU and implemented simultaneously with the order in the Gas
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
Base Rate Case. Also in November 2001, PSE&G made a compliance filing with the BPU to implement an approximate 3% increase through the Gas Cost Underrecovery Adjustment (GCUA) surcharge effective December 1, 2001. This surcharge is designed to recover its October 2001 gas underrecovery balance of $130 million. In January 2002, the BPU issued an order approving the increase.
In January 2002, the BPU issued an order approving a Settlement under which PSE&G will receive an additional $90 million of gas base rate revenues, approximately $8 million of which results from gas depreciation rate changes. This will occur simultaneously with PSE&G's implementation of its previously approved GCUA surcharge to recover the October 31, 2001 gas cost underrecovery balance of approximately $130 million over a three-year period with interest and with PSE&G's reduction of its 2001-2003 Commodity Charges (formerly LGAC) by approximately $140 million.
The $8 million gas depreciation rate changes are due primarily to the shortening of the useful lives for general plant and equipment. This adjustment will have no impact on earnings as it will be offset by increased operating cash flows in a normal business environment. Assuming current cost levels and a normal business environment, the $82 million balance of PSE&G's gas base rate increase will have a positive impact on earnings and operating cash flows. The settlement set PSE&G's gas rate base at approximately $1.6 billion, its rate of return on this rate base at 8.27% and its cost of capital or total return on equity of its gas operations at 10%. As a result of the settlement, PSE&G agreed not to request another gas base rate increase that would take effect prior to September 1, 2004.
The $130 million rate increase relating to the GCUA will have no impact on earnings and will increase operating cash flows in a normal business environment. The reduction in PSE&G's 2001-2003 commodity charges relates to its residential customers and will have no impact on earnings and will decrease operating cash flows assuming current cost levels and a normal business environment.
Focused Audit
For information regarding the 1992 BPU proceeding concerning the relationship of PSE&G to our non-utility businesses (Focused Audit), see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).
Federal Regulation
Certain of our subsidiaries' domestic operations are subject to regulation by FERC with respect to certain matters, including interstate sales and exchanges of electric transmission, capacity and energy. We have claimed an exemption from regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA), except for Section 9(a)(2), which relates to the acquisition of 5% or more of the voting securities of an electric or gas utility company. Fossil and Nuclear are EWGs and Global's investments include EWGs and foreign utility companies (FUCOs) under PUHCA. Failure to maintain status of these plants as EWGs or FUCOs could subject PSEG and its subsidiaries to regulation by the SEC under PUHCA.
If we were no longer exempt from PUHCA, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to additional regulation by the SEC with respect to their financing and investing activities, including the amount and type of non-utility investments. We believe, however, that this would not have a material adverse effect on us and our subsidiaries.
PSE&G, Fossil, Nuclear and Global are also subject to the rules and regulation of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). For information on environmental regulation, see Environmental Matters.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
FERC RTO Orders
In December 1999, FERC promulgated a Final Rule (Order 2000) in the Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) rulemaking proceeding. In October 2000, PJM and nine PJM transmission owners, including us, made a filing with FERC stating that PJM is an RTO that meets or exceeds the requirements of Order 2000. Included in this filing was a PJM rate proposal designed to provide for deferral recovery of reasonable, risk-adjusted returns on new transmission investments in the PJM region, an accelerated recovery period for such new investments, and a rate moratorium of current charges through December 31, 2004.
In July 2001, FERC issued a series of orders that, amongst other things, rejected the rate design proposal established generation interconnection proceedings and called for the creation of RTOs to facilitate competitive regional markets in the U.S. FERC rejected several smaller RTO proposals and directed transmission owners and independent system operators (ISOs) to combine into much larger RTOs, dramatically altering their proposed geographic size and configuration. In August 2001, the PJM transmission owners requested a rehearing of the PJM RTO Order. The matter is still pending.
In the Northeast region, FERC conditionally approved the PJM RTO proposal (subject to several modifications and compliance filings) and rejected the New York ISO and ISO-New England RTO proposals. FERC directed that the three existing ISOs for PJM, New York and New England, as well as the systems involved in PJM West, form a single Northeast RTO, based on the "PJM platform" and "best practices" of all three ISO's. FERC directed that the parties in the region engage in mediation (with FERC oversight) to prepare a proposal and timetable for the merger of the ISOs into a single RTO. At the end of the 45-day mediation period, the Administrative Law Judge assigned to the matter submitted a report to the Commission with an attached business plan for implementation of the single northeast RTO possibly as soon as the fourth quarter of 2003.
In the Southeast region, FERC rejected two separate RTO proposals and directed parties to engage in mediation under the supervision of an Administrative Law Judge to pursue the goal of creating a single Southeast RTO using the proposed "Grid South platform." We participated in this discussion. Another a model for forming a market for the Southeast region continues to evolve.
In January 2002, PJM and the Midwest ISO announced that they had entered into negotiations to create a virtual uniform seamless market encompassing their two RTOs, shortly after the FERC approved the Midwest ISO as an RTO. In addition, the ISO New England and the New York ISO agreed to jointly develop a common electricity market and evaluate a New England-New York RTO. The impact of these developments on us is uncertain because specific rules will not be known for some time and are subject to FERC approval, which cannot be assured.
FERC has started a series of conferences to discuss the technical issues related to its consideration of a standard market design - products and protocols - for wholesale electric power markets. The goal of these conferences is to gain a mutual understanding of similarities and differences between various market designs and to allow participants to provide further detail on market operations. We have been supportive of the incorporation of both capacity and spot energy markets as part of any standardized market design. The information from these conferences will be used to issue a formal Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) on a standard market design later this year.
FERC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comments to help form the basis for a proposed rule to standardize power-plant interconnection requirements to ease market entry for new generation. FERC also will, as part of the rulemaking, reconsider its policy addressing how transmission owners treat the cost of system upgrades necessary to accommodate new generation, potentially resulting in a new methodology. The ultimate outcome of this rulemaking and its impact upon us cannot be predicted.
The impact of these developments on us is uncertain because specific rules will not be known for some time and are subject to FERC approval, which cannot be assured.
-------------------------------------------- PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED --------------------------------------------
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)
Operation of nuclear generating units involves continuous close regulation by the NRC. Such regulation involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and environmental requirements. Continuous demonstrations to the NRC that plant operations meet requirements are also necessary. The NRC has the ultimate authority to determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. [Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued Orders dated February 25, 2002 to all nuclear power plants to implement interim compensatory security measures. Some of the requirements formalize a series of security measures that licensees had taken in response to advisories issued by the NRC in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks. Power has evaluated the Orders for the Salem and Hope Creek facilities and considers the implementation of the NRC measures to be without adverse material consequence to the NRC operating license or business interests.
In accordance with NRC requirements, nuclear plants utilize various fire barrier systems to protect equipment necessary for the safe shutdown of the plant in the event of a fire. The NRC has identified certain issues at Salem and Power is in the process of making the necessary modifications to comply with these requirements, the cost of which are not expected to be material. Failure to resolve fire barrier issues could result in potential NRC violations, fines and/or plant shutdown which could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows.
Exelon has informed Power that on July 3, 2001 an application was submitted to the NRC to renew the operating licenses for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3. If approved, the current licenses would be extended by 20 years, to 2033 and 2034 for Units 2 and 3 respectively. NRC review of the application is expected to take approximately two years.
For certain litigation relating to Salem, see Item 3.