Item 2.)
Oglethorpe has entered into power supply arrangements with two power marketers to reduce the cost of capacity and energy delivered to the Members. (See "OGLETHORPE'S POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Power Marketer Arrangements.")
In 2000, Cobb EMC and Jackson EMC accounted for 11.9% and 11.8% of Oglethorpe's total revenues, respectively. None of the other Members accounted for as much as 10% of Oglethorpe's total revenues in 2000.
Wholesale Power Contracts
In 1997, Oglethorpe entered into a substantially similar Amended and Restated Wholesale Power Contract with each Member extending through December 31, 2025. Under the Wholesale Power Contract, each Member is unconditionally obligated on an express "take-or-pay" basis for a fixed allocation of Oglethorpe's costs for its existing generation and purchased power resources, as well as the costs with respect to any future resources in which such Member elects to participate. Each Wholesale Power Contract specifically provides that the Member must make payments whether or not power is delivered and whether or not a plant has been sold or is otherwise unavailable. Oglethorpe is obligated to use its reasonable best efforts to operate, maintain and manage its resources in accordance with prudent utility practices.
Each Member's cost responsibility under its Wholesale Power Contract is based on agreed-upon fixed percentage capacity responsibilities. Percentage capacity responsibilities have been assigned for all of Oglethorpe's existing generation and purchased power resources. Percentage capacity responsibilities for any future resource will be assigned only to Members choosing to participate in that resource. The Wholesale Power Contracts provide that each Member will be jointly and severally responsible for all costs and expenses of all existing generation and purchased power resources, as well as for any future resources (whether or not such Member has elected to participate in such future resource) that are approved by 75% of Oglethorpe's Board of Directors and 75% of the Members. For resources so approved in which less than all Members participate, costs are shared first among the participating Members, and if all participating Members default, each non-participating Member is expressly obligated to pay a proportionate share of such default.
Under the Wholesale Power Contracts, each Member must establish rates and conduct its business in a manner that will enable the Member to pay (i) to
Oglethorpe when due, all amounts payable by the Member under its Wholesale Power Contract and (ii) any and all other amounts payable from, or which might constitute a charge or a lien upon, the revenues and receipts derived from the Member's electric system, including all operation and maintenance expenses and the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all indebtedness related to the Member's electric system.
Under the Wholesale Power Contracts, Oglethorpe is not obligated to provide all of the Members' capacity or energy requirements. The Members also have various options regarding services provided by Oglethorpe. These options include:
o whether to have Oglethorpe provide joint planning and resource management services,
o whether to participate in a capacity and energy pool or to separately schedule their resources, and
o whether to satisfy all or a portion of their power requirements above their existing Oglethorpe purchase obligations from Oglethorpe or from other suppliers.
For more information about these options see "OGLETHORPE'S POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Future Power Resources" and "--Capacity and Energy Pool" and "THE MEMBERS AND THEIR POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Member Power Supply Resources."
Electric Rates
Each Member is required to pay Oglethorpe for capacity and energy furnished under its Wholesale Power Contract in accordance with rates established by Oglethorpe. Oglethorpe reviews its rates at such intervals as it deems appropriate but is required to do so at least once every year. Oglethorpe is required to revise its rates as necessary so that the revenues derived from its rates, together with its revenues from all other sources, will be sufficient to pay all costs of its system, to provide for reasonable reserves and to meet all financial requirements.
Oglethorpe's principal financial requirements are contained in the Indenture, dated as of March 1, 1997, from Oglethorpe to SunTrust Bank ("SunTrust"), as trustee (as supplemented, the "Mortgage Indenture"). Under the Mortgage Indenture, Oglethorpe is required, subject to any necessary regulatory approval, to establish and collect rates which are reasonably expected, together with other revenues of Oglethorpe, to yield a Margins for Interest Ratio for each fiscal year equal to at least 1.10. "Margins for Interest Ratio" is the ratio of "Margins for Interest" to total "Interest Charges" for a given period. Margins for Interest is the sum of:
o net margins of Oglethorpe (which includes revenues of Oglethorpe subject to refund at a later date but excludes provisions for (i) non-recurring charges to income, including the non-recoverability of assets or expenses, except to the extent Oglethorpe determines to recover such charges in rates, and (ii) refunds of revenues collected or accrued subject to refund), plus
o interest charges, whether capitalized or expensed, on all indebtedness secured under the Mortgage Indenture or by a lien equal or prior to the lien of the Mortgage Indenture, including amortization of debt discount or premium on issuance, but excluding interest charges on indebtedness assumed by GTC ("Interest Charges"), plus
o any amount included in net margins for accruals for federal or state income taxes imposed on income after deduction of interest expense.
Margins for Interest takes into account any item of net margin, loss, gain or expenditure of any affiliate or subsidiary of Oglethorpe only if Oglethorpe has received such net margins or gains as a dividend or other distribution from such affiliate or subsidiary or if Oglethorpe has made a payment with respect to such losses or expenditures.
The formulary rate established by Oglethorpe in the rate schedule to the Wholesale Power Contracts employs a rate methodology under which all categories of costs are specifically separated as components of the formula to determine Oglethorpe's revenue requirements. The rate schedule also implements the responsibility for fixed costs assigned to each Member (that is, the Member's percentage capacity responsibility). The monthly charges for capacity and other non-energy charges are based on Oglethorpe's annual budget. Such capacity and other non-energy charges may be adjusted by the Board of Directors, if necessary, during the year through an adjustment to the annual budget. Energy charges reflect the pass-through of actual energy costs, including fuel costs, variable operations and maintenance costs and purchased energy costs. (See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS--General--Rates and Regulation" in Item 7.)
The rate schedule formula also includes a prior period adjustment mechanism designed to ensure that Oglethorpe achieves the minimum 1.10 Margins for Interest Ratio. Amounts, if any, by which Oglethorpe fails to achieve a minimum 1.10 Margins for Interest Ratio are accrued as of December 31 of the applicable year and collected from the Members during the period April through December of the following year. The rate schedule formula is intended to provide for the collection of revenues which, together with revenues from all other sources, are equal to all costs and expenses recorded by Oglethorpe, plus amounts necessary to achieve at least the minimum 1.10 Margins for Interest Ratio.
Under the Mortgage Indenture and related loan contract with the Rural Utilities Service ("RUS"), adjustments to Oglethorpe's rates to reflect changes in Oglethorpe's budgets are generally not subject to RUS approval. Changes to the rate schedule under the Wholesale Power Contracts are generally subject to RUS approval. Oglethorpe's rates are not subject to the approval of any other federal or state agency or authority, including the Georgia Public Service Commission (the "GPSC").
Relationship with GTC
Oglethorpe and the 39 Members are members of GTC. GTC provides transmission services to the Members for delivery of the Members' power purchases from Oglethorpe and other power suppliers. GTC also provides transmission services to Oglethorpe and third parties. Oglethorpe has entered into an agreement with GTC to provide transmission services for third party transactions and for service to Oglethorpe's headquarters and the administration building at the Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Facility ("Rocky Mountain").
GTC has rights in the Integrated Transmission System, which consists of transmission facilities owned by GTC, Georgia Power Company ("GPC"), the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia ("MEAG") and the City of Dalton ("Dalton"). Through agreements, common access to the combined facilities that compose the Integrated Transmission System enables the owners to use their combined resources to make deliveries to or for their respective consumers, to provide transmission service to third parties and to make off-system purchases and sales. The Integrated Transmission System was established in order to obtain the benefits of a coordinated development of the parties' transmission facilities and to make it unnecessary for any party to construct duplicative facilities.
Relationship with GSOC
Oglethorpe, GTC and the 39 Members are members of GSOC. GSOC operates the system control center and currently provides system operations services to Oglethorpe and GTC. Oglethorpe has also contracted with GSOC to operate an electric capacity and energy pool for scheduling and dispatching Oglethorpe and Member resources. (See "OGLETHORPE'S POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Capacity and Energy Pool"). Since January 1, 2000, GSOC has been providing support services to Oglethorpe in the areas of accounting, auditing, communications, human resources, facility management, telecommunications and information technology at cost-based rates.
GTC has contracted with GSOC to provide certain transmission system operation services including reliability monitoring, switching operations, and the real-time management of the transmission system.
Relationship with Smarr EMC
In providing joint planning and resource management services under the Wholesale Power Contracts, Oglethorpe identified Member needs that could best be met by the construction and ownership of simple cycle combustion turbine facilities. Oglethorpe and the Members determined that such facilities should be owned, not by Oglethorpe, but by a separate Member-owned entity. Accordingly, Smarr EMC was formed as a Georgia electric membership corporation in 1998 and is now owned by 37 of Oglethorpe's 39 Members. Oglethorpe is providing operation and financial management services for Smarr Energy Facility and Sewell Creek Energy Facility, the gas-fired combustion turbine projects currently owned by Smarr EMC.
Relationship with GPC
Oglethorpe's relationship with GPC is a significant factor in several aspects of Oglethorpe's business. All of Oglethorpe's co-owned generating facilities, except Rocky Mountain, are operated by GPC on behalf of itself as a co-owner and as agent for the other co-owners. GPC and Oglethorpe, through the Members, are competitors in the State of Georgia for electric service to new customers that have a choice of supplier under the Georgia Territorial Electric Service Act, which was enacted in 1973 (the "Territorial Act"). GPC is also one of Oglethorpe's suppliers of purchased power. For further information regarding the relationships and agreements with GPC, see "THE MEMBERS AND THEIR POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Service Area and Competition" and "OGLETHORPE'S POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Power Purchase and Sale Arrangements--Power Purchases from GPC." Also see "PROPERTIES--Fuel Supply," "--Co-Owners of the Plants--Georgia Power Company" and "--The Plant Agreements" in Item 2.
Relationship with RUS
Historically, federal loan programs administered by RUS have provided the principal source of financing for electric cooperatives. Loans guaranteed by RUS and made by the Federal Financing Bank ("FFB") have been a major source of funding for Oglethorpe. (See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS--Financial Condition--Capital Requirements" and "--Liquidity and Sources of Capital" in Item 7.)
Oglethorpe entered into a loan contract with RUS in connection with the Mortgage Indenture. Under the loan contract, RUS has approval rights over certain significant actions and arrangements, including, without limitation,
o significant additions to or dispositions of system assets,
o significant power purchase and sale contracts,
o changes to the Wholesale Power Contracts, including the rate schedule contained therein,
o changes to plant ownership and operating agreements, and
o in limited circumstances, issuance of additional secured debt.
The extent of RUS's approval rights under the loan contract with Oglethorpe is substantially less than the supervision and control RUS has traditionally exercised over borrowers under its standard loan and security documentation. In addition, the Mortgage Indenture improves Oglethorpe's ability to borrow funds in the public capital markets relative to RUS's standard mortgage. The Mortgage Indenture constitutes a lien on substantially all of the owned tangible and certain intangible property of Oglethorpe.
Oglethorpe has submitted loan applications to RUS to provide permanent financing for six new combustion turbines and a combined cycle facility being constructed to meet future requirements of the Members. The facilities may ultimately be owned by a subsidiary of Oglethorpe, by Smarr EMC or by a similar separate entity. The loan applications were made on behalf of any entity that may ultimately own these facilities. (See "OGLETHORPE'S POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Future Power Resources" and "THE MEMBERS AND THEIR POWER SUPPLY Resources--Future Power Resources.")
Seasonal Variations
The demand for energy by the Members is influenced by seasonal weather conditions. Historically, Oglethorpe's peak demand has occurred during the months of June through August. Energy revenues track energy costs as they are incurred and also fluctuate month to month. Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of Oglethorpe's fixed costs, which do not vary significantly from month to month; therefore, capacity charges are billed and capacity revenues are recognized in equal monthly amounts.
OGLETHORPE'S POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES
General
Oglethorpe supplies capacity and energy to the Members from a combination of owned and leased generating plants and from power purchased under long-term contracts with other power suppliers and power marketers. Oglethorpe has also entered into power supply arrangements with power marketers to reduce the cost of capacity and energy delivered to the Members. Oglethorpe meets its supplemental power supply needs through short-term power purchase contracts and spot-market purchases.
Generating Plants
Oglethorpe's thirteen generating units consist of 30% undivided interests in the Edwin I. Hatch Plant ("Plant Hatch"), the Alvin W. Vogtle Plant ("Plant Vogtle") and the Hal B. Wansley Plant ("Plant Wansley"), a 60% undivided interest in the Robert W. Scherer Unit No. 1 ("Scherer Unit No. 1"), a 60% undivided interest in the Robert W. Scherer Unit No. 2 ("Scherer Unit No. 2"), a 100% interest in the Tallassee Project at the Walter W. Harrison Dam ("Tallassee") and a 74.61% undivided interest in Rocky Mountain. Plant Hatch consists of two nuclear-fueled units, with nameplate ratings of 810 MW and 820 MW, respectively. Plant Vogtle consists of two nuclear-fueled units, each with a nameplate rating of 1,160 MW. Plant Wansley consists of two coal-fired units, each with a nameplate rating of 865 MW. Plant Wansley also includes a 49.2 MW oil-fired combustion turbine. Plant Scherer consists of four coal-fired units, each with a nameplate rating of 818 MW. Oglethorpe has an interest only in Scherer Unit No. 1 and Scherer Unit No. 2. Tallassee is a conventional hydroelectric facility with a nameplate rating of 2.1 MW. Rocky Mountain is a three-unit pumped storage hydroelectric facility with a nameplate rating of 847.8 MW.
Participants in Plants Hatch, Vogtle and Wansley and Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 also include MEAG, Dalton and GPC. GPC serves as operating agent for these units. GPC is also a participant in Rocky Mountain, which is operated by Oglethorpe.
See "PROPERTIES" in Item 2 for a description of Oglethorpe's generating facilities, fuel supply and the co-ownership arrangements.
Power Marketer Arrangements
Oglethorpe utilizes power marketer arrangements to reduce the cost of power to the Members. Oglethorpe has power marketer agreements with LG&E Energy Marketing Inc. ("LEM") for approximately 50% of the load requirements of the 37 participating Members and with Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") with respect to 50% of the 39 Members' load requirements forecasted at the time Oglethorpe entered into the agreement. The LEM agreement is based on the actual requirements of the participating Members during the contract term, whereas the Morgan Stanley agreement represents a fixed supply obligation.
Generally, these arrangements reduce the cost of supplying power to the Members by limiting the risk of unit availability, by providing a guaranteed benefit for the use of excess resources and by providing future power needs at a fixed price. Under these power marketer agreements, Oglethorpe purchases energy at fixed prices covering a portion of the costs of energy to its Members. LEM and Morgan Stanley, in turn, have certain rights to market excess energy from the Oglethorpe system. Most of Oglethorpe's generating facilities and power purchase arrangements are available for use by LEM and Morgan Stanley under the terms of the respective agreements. Oglethorpe continues to be responsible for all of the costs of its system resources but receives revenue, as described below, from LEM and Morgan Stanley for the use of the resources.
LEM Agreement
Effective January 1, 1997, Oglethorpe entered into a power marketer agreement with LEM, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of LG&E Energy Corp., which is a diversified energy services company headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky. In December 2000, LG&E Energy Corp. completed a merger with Powergen plc, a British public limited company, under which LG&E Energy Corp. became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Powergen plc.
Under the power marketer agreement, LEM is obligated to deliver, and Oglethorpe is obligated to take, (i) 50% of the load requirements of the 37 participating Members, less (ii) the load requirements for certain customers who have the right to choose electric suppliers, plus (iii) 50% of the 37 Members' percentage capacity responsibility shares of the delivery obligations under Oglethorpe's existing firm power off-system sale contracts. For certain smaller customer choice loads, LEM is obligated to deliver, if Oglethorpe requests, 50% of the associated load requirements. Oglethorpe has the option of purchasing the energy requirements for any customer choice load from another supplier. Oglethorpe is obligated to sell and LEM is obligated to buy 50% of the output of each of the 37 Members' percentage capacity responsibility shares of the "must run" units (primarily nuclear units). Oglethorpe is also obligated to make available the same share of most of Oglethorpe's other resources, which LEM may schedule. LEM does not have the right to the output of upgrades to these resources. LEM pays Oglethorpe the costs associated with the energy taken, subject to certain adjustments. Oglethorpe must pay LEM a contractually specified price for each megawatt-hour ("MWh") purchased.
The LEM agreement has a term extending through 2011. With one year's notice, Oglethorpe has the right to terminate the LEM agreement as of December 31, 2001 or any December 31 after that. With 18 months' notice, LEM has the right to terminate the agreement as of December 31, 2004 or any December 31 after that. In February 2001, LEM initiated the contractually defined arbitration process to resolve a number of issues relating to the administration of the LEM agreement. (See "LEGAL PROCEEDINGS" in Item 3.