Item 2 for a description of Oglethorpe's generating facilities.) These resources are generally scheduled and dispatched so as to minimize the operating cost of Oglethorpe's system. However, Oglethorpe has entered into long-term arrangements with power marketers to better utilize its resources to reduce the cost of capacity and energy delivered to the Members, in part by giving certain dispatch rights to the power marketers. (See "Power Purchase and Sale Arrangements--Power Marketer Arrangements" herein.)
Member Demand and Energy Requirements
The following table shows the aggregate peak demand and energy requirements of the Members for the years 1994 through 1996 and also shows the amounts of such requirements supplied by Oglethorpe and SEPA. For the years 1994 through 1996, demand and energy requirements increased at an average annual compound growth rate of 13.2% and 9.7%, respectively.
- ----------
(1) System peak demand of the Members measured at the Members' delivery points (net of system losses). The significant increase in peak demand in 1995 was due in large part to a milder than normal summer in 1994.
(2) Includes purchased power. (See "Power Purchase and Sale Arrangements--Power Purchases from GPC" and "--Other Power Purchases" herein.)
(3) Supplied by SEPA through existing contracts with the Members. (See "THE MEMBERS OF OGLETHORPE--Contracts with SEPA".)
In 1996, Cobb EMC and Jackson EMC accounted for approximately 12.5% and 11.2% of Oglethorpe's total revenues, respectively.
Seasonal Variations
The demand for energy by the Members is influenced by seasonal weather conditions. Historically, Oglethorpe's peak demand occurs during the months of June through September. (See "OGLETHORPE POWER Corporation--Electric Rates".) Energy revenues track energy costs as they are incurred and also fluctuate month to month. Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of Oglethorpe's fixed costs which do not vary significantly from month to month; therefore, the capacity revenues are billed and recognized in equal monthly amounts.
Demand Management
Oglethorpe and the Members have implemented various demand management programs. The program goal, developed in conjunction with Oglethorpe's integrated resource planning process, has been to modify demand patterns so that current resources are used efficiently and the need for additional generating resources is delayed. The programs that have been implemented include an energy efficient home program (the "Good Cents Home" program), remote-controlled switching of air conditioners, water heaters and irrigation pumps, residential energy audits and public appeals to encourage consumers to use less energy during periods of peak demand. The demand management programs have reduced the growth of peak demand and have also resulted in an increase in off-peak sales. (See "Power Purchase and Sale Arrangements--Other Power Purchases" herein.)
Power Purchase and Sale Arrangements
Power Marketer Arrangements
As a means of reducing the cost of power provided to the Members, Oglethorpe utilized short-term power marketer arrangements during 1996 with two different power marketers. Under both of the arrangements, the power marketer was required to provide to Oglethorpe at a favorable fixed rate all of the energy needed to meet the Members' requirements, and Oglethorpe was required to provide upon request to the power marketers at cost (subject to certain limitations) all energy available from Oglethorpe's total power resources. Under these arrangements, Oglethorpe continued to operate the power supply system and continued to dispatch the generating resources to ensure system reliability.
Oglethorpe is now utilizing power marketer arrangements on a long-term basis to reduce the cost of power. It has entered into power marketer agreements with LPM for 50% of the load requirements of the Members, and is working to finalize an agreement with Morgan Stanley Capital Group ("Morgan Stanley") for the remaining 50% of the Members' load requirements.
Effective January 1, 1997, Oglethorpe entered into power marketer agreements with LPM for 50% of the load requirements of the Members. Under the agreements, LPM is obligated to deliver, and Oglethorpe is obligated to take, 50% of the load requirements of the participating Members less the load requirements for certain customer choice loads (900 kilowatt or greater), plus 50% of the delivery obligations under Oglethorpe's existing firm power off-system sale contracts. For customer choice loads of three megawatts or less, LPM is obligated to deliver, if Oglethorpe requests, 50% of the associated load requirements. Oglethorpe has the option of purchasing the energy requirements for customer choice loads from another supplier. Oglethorpe is obligated to sell and LPM is obligated to buy 50% of the output of each participating Member's PCR share of the "must run" units (primarily nuclear units). Oglethorpe is also obligated to make available the same share of all other resources, which LPM may schedule. LPM does not have the right to the output of upgrades to these resources. LPM must pay Oglethorpe the cost of fuel associated with the energy taken. There is a price adjustment if the plant performance does not meet specified levels of availability and output. Oglethorpe must pay LPM a contractually specified price for each MWh purchased.
Oglethorpe has contracted with GTC to provide available transmission services to deliver to the border of the ITS any energy sold to LPM. Each Member will use its Transmission Agreement for delivery of energy purchased from LPM and others.
Effective with the Corporate Restructuring and the execution of supplemental agreements to the New Wholesale Power Contracts, the LPM agreement relating to 37 of the 39 Members has a term extending to 2011. With one years' notice, Oglethorpe has the right to terminate the LPM agreement for any year beginning with 2002. With one years' notice, LPM has the right to terminate the LPM agreement for any year beginning with 2005. The LPM agreement relating to the other two Members has a term extending through the end of 1999. The
supplemental agreements are the vehicle through which Oglethorpe and the Members assure that the Members receive the benefits of and support the obligations for the new power marketer arrangements under the New Wholesale Power Contracts.
LPM is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of LG&E Energy Corp., a Kentucky corporation, which is a diversified energy services holding company. LG&E Energy Corp. is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and, in accordance therewith, files reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Copies of this material can be obtained at prescribed rates from the Commission's Public Reference Section at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Room 1024, Washington, D.C. 20549. Certain securities of LG&E Energy Corp. are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and reports and other information concerning LG&E Energy Corp. can be inspected at the office of such Exchange.
Oglethorpe is now working to finalize power marketer arrangements with Morgan Stanley that would supply the remaining 50% of the Members' load requirements. The agreement is expected to allow each Member to have Oglethorpe elect a term from three to eight years. Each Member is currently deciding whether to have Oglethorpe obtain its remaining load requirements from Morgan Stanley. The proposed agreement would obligate Oglethorpe to purchase fixed quantities of energy, averaging 50% of the Members' forecasted requirements during the term of the agreement. Initially, Oglethorpe would manage the system through purchases or sales to balance this fixed requirement against the actual requirements. Oglethorpe would have considerably more discretion in the management of the power supply system under the proposed Morgan Stanley contract than under the LPM contract. In order to complete the implementation of the Morgan Stanley power marketer arrangements, Oglethorpe and each participating Member will enter into supplemental agreements to the New Wholesale Power Contract to conform the provisions of the New Wholesale Power Contracts to the terms of the power marketing arrangements. Any Member that elects not to participate in the Morgan Stanley agreement would have other options available, including having Oglethorpe manage this portion of the Member's load requirements and, beginning as early as January 1, 1998, contract with other power marketers.
In the interim, Oglethorpe is supplying this portion of the Members' requirements from its own resources and by off-system purchase and sales. In the event Oglethorpe does not enter into power marketer agreements for the remainder of its load, it can continue to operate effectively in this manner
Oglethorpe will continue to plan for each Member's requirements beyond the term of the respective power marketer agreements, including decisions regarding early termination.
Power Purchases from GPC
Oglethorpe currently purchases 1,000 MW of capacity and associated energy from GPC on a take-or-pay basis under the Block Power Sale Agreement ("BPSA"), which extends through December 31, 2003. The capacity purchases under the BPSA are from five Component Blocks (as defined in the BPSA), composed of three Component Blocks of 250 MW each (coal-fired units) and two Component Blocks of 125 MW each (combustion turbine units). The capacity in one or more Component Blocks may, however, be less than the MW stated above, as the result of scheduled retirement of units or retirements due to force majeure events. All units in the combustion turbine Component Blocks are scheduled to be retired by 2003. Although Oglethorpe may not increase its capacity purchases under the BPSA, it may reduce or extend its purchases of one or more Component Blocks upon proper notice to GPC. Oglethorpe has given notice of its intent to reduce its purchases by two 250 MW Component Blocks (coal-fired units) effective September 1, 1997 and September 1, 1998. Also, pursuant to its long-term power marketer agreements with LPM, Oglethorpe has committed to continue reducing its purchases from GPC as permitted under the BPSA and thus will no longer purchase any energy under the BPSA effective September 1, 2001. (See "Power Marketer Arrangements" herein for a discussion of the LPM agreement.)
Other Power Purchases
Oglethorpe purchases 100 MW of capacity from each of Entergy Power, Inc. ("EPI") and Big Rivers Electric Corporation ("Big Rivers"), under agreements extending through June and July 2002, respectively. The availability of capacity under the EPI contract is dependent on the availability of two specific generating units available to EPI. The Tennessee Valley Authority ("TVA") provides the transmission service to deliver the power from the Big Rivers electric system to the ITS. TVA and Southern Company Services, as agent for Alabama Power Company and Mississippi Power Company, provide the transmission service necessary to deliver the power from EPI to the ITS. (See Note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8.)
Oglethorpe also has a contract through 2019 to purchase approximately 300 MW of capacity with Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership ("Hartwell"), a partnership owned 50% by Destec Energy, Inc. and 50% by American National Power, Inc., a subsidiary of National Power, PLC. Oglethorpe intends to use the units for peaking capacity but has the right to dispatch the units fully.
In addition to the purchases from GPC, Big Rivers and EPI, Oglethorpe also purchases small amounts of capacity and energy from "qualifying facilities" under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA"). Under a waiver order from FERC, Oglethorpe has historically made all purchases the Members would have otherwise been required to make under PURPA and Oglethorpe was relieved of its obligation to sell certain services to "qualifying facilities" so long as the Members make those sales. Oglethorpe has historically provided the Members with the necessary services to fulfill these sale obligations. Purchases by Oglethorpe from such qualifying facilities provided 0.2% of Oglethorpe's energy requirements for the Members in 1996. As a result of the Corporate Restructuring, the Member may make such purchases in the future.
Oglethorpe has contracted with Florida Power Corporation to purchase 50 MW of peaking capacity during the summer of 1997 and 275 MW of peaking capacity during the summer of 1998.
Under the New Wholesale Power Contracts, Oglethorpe will provide joint planning services for all participating Members. A Member may elect not to have Oglethorpe provide joint planning, procurement or bulk power marketing. Although the long-term power marketer arrangements may provide substantially all of the Members' requirements for the contract term, Oglethorpe will continue to supply these planning services for requirements beyond the contract term as well as for evaluation of contract options.
Long-Term Power Sales
Oglethorpe has an agreement to sell 100 MW of base capacity to Alabama Electric Cooperative beginning June 1, 1998, and extending through December 31, 2005.
Other Power System Arrangements
Oglethorpe has interchange, transmission and/or short-term capacity and energy purchase or sale agreements with over 20 utilities and other power suppliers. The agreements provide variously for the purchase and/or sale of capacity and energy and/or for the purchase of transmission service. The development of and access to a statewide transmission network and the interconnections with other utilities are key elements in Oglethorpe's ability to make off-system sales and purchases through its contract with GTC and to compete in an increasingly competitive market.
OTHER INFORMATION
Information with respect to fuel supply for Oglethorpe's plants is set forth under the caption "GENERATING FACILITIES--Fuel Supply" included in Item 2 and is incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to environmental and other regulations affecting Oglethorpe and its plants is set forth under the caption "ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS" included in Item 2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2. PROPERTIES
GENERATING FACILITIES
General
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the generating facilities in which Oglethorpe currently has ownership or leasehold interests, all of which are in commercial operation. The Edwin I. Hatch Plant ("Plant Hatch"), the Hal B. Wansley Plant ("Plant Wansley"), the Alvin W. Vogtle Plant ("Plant Vogtle") and the Robert W. Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 ("Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2") are co-owned by Oglethorpe, GPC, MEAG and Dalton. GPC is the operating agent for each of these co-owned plants. Rocky Mountain is co-owned by Oglethorpe and GPC, and Oglethorpe is the operating agent. Oglethorpe is the sole owner of the Tallassee Project at the Walter W. Harrison Dam ("Tallassee"). (See "CO-OWNERS OF THE PLANTS AND THE PLANT AGREEMENTS--The Plant Agreements".)
- ----------
(1) Oglethorpe has an ownership interest in all of the facilities except Scherer Unit No. 2. The 60% interest in Scherer Unit No. 2 is leased under leases that expire in 2013, subject to options to renew for a total of 8.5 years.
(2) Coal-fired units and combustion turbines do not operate under operating licenses similar to those granted to nuclear units by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and to hydroelectric plants by FERC.
Plant Performance
The following table sets forth certain operating performance information of each of the major generating facilities in which Oglethorpe currently has ownership or leasehold interests:
- ---------------------
(1) Equivalent Availability is a measure of the percentage of time that a unit was available to generate if called upon, adjusted for periods when the unit is partially derated from the "maximum dependable capacity" rating.
(2) Capacity Factor is a measure of the output of a unit as a percentage of the maximum output, based on the "maximum dependable capacity" rating, over the period of measure.
(3) Rocky Mountain Commercial Operation Dates: Unit 1 - July 24, 1995; Unit 2 - June 19, 1995; Unit 3 - June 1, 1995. This information was calculated beginning from the commercial operation date for each unit. As a pumped storage plant, Rocky Mountain primarily operates in peaking service.
The nuclear refueling cycle for Plants Hatch and Vogtle exceeds twelve months. Therefore, in some calendar years the units at these plants are not taken out of service for refueling, resulting in higher levels of equivalent availability and capacity factor.
Fuel Supply
Coal for Plant Wansley is purchased under long-term contracts, which are estimated to be sufficient to provide the majority of the coal requirements of Plant Wansley through 1997, with the remainder being provided through spot market transactions. As of February 28, 1997, there was a 38-day coal supply at Plant Wansley based on nameplate rating.
Low-sulfur "compliance" coal for Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 is purchased under long-term contracts and spot market transactions. As of February 28, 1997, the coal stockpile at Plant Scherer contained a 37-day
supply based on nameplate rating. During 1994, Plant Scherer was converted to burn both sub-bituminous and bituminous coals, and a separate stockpile of sub-bituminous coal was built in addition to the stockpile of bituminous coal.
The Plant Scherer and Wansley ownership and operating agreements were amended in 1993 and 1996, respectively, to allow each co-owner (i) to dispatch separately its respective ownership interest in conjunction with contracting separately for long-term coal purchases procured by GPC and (ii) to procure separately long-term coal purchases. Pursuant to the amendments, Oglethorpe implemented separate dispatch of Plant Scherer in 1994. Oglethorpe expects to implement separate dispatch at Plant Wansley by early to mid-summer 1997. Oglethorpe continues to use GPC as its agent for fuel procurement.
To take advantage of these changes at Plants Scherer and Wansley, Oglethorpe formed a wholly owned subsidiary to acquire rail cars designed for hauling coal from the western coal mining regions. The subsidiary, Black Diamond Energy, Inc., has purchased or leased 299 rail cars. Oglethorpe has entered into an initial 15-year lease with the subsidiary which obligates Oglethorpe to pay all of the ownership and operating expenses of the subsidiary relating to the rail cars during the lease term.
For information relating to the impact that the Clean Air Act will have on Oglethorpe, see "ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS--Clean Air Act".
GPC, as operating agent, has the responsibility to procure nuclear fuel for Plants Hatch and Vogtle. GPC has contracted with Southern Nuclear Operating Company ("SONOPCO") to provide nuclear services, including nuclear fuel procurement. SONOPCO employs both spot purchases and long-term contracts to satisfy nuclear fuel requirements. The nuclear fuel supply and related services are expected to be adequate to satisfy current and future nuclear generation requirements.
Plants Hatch and Vogtle currently have on-site spent fuel storage capacity. Based on normal operations and retention of all spent fuel in the reactor, it is anticipated that existing on-site pool capacity would not be sufficient in 2003 and 2008, respectively, to accept the number of spent fuel assemblies that would normally be removed from the reactor during a refueling. Contracts with the Department of Energy ("DOE") have been executed to provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel produced at Plants Hatch and Vogtle. The services to be provided by DOE are scheduled to begin in 1998; however, the DOE has stated that permanent nuclear waste storage facilities will not be available by that date, and it is uncertain when they will be available. If DOE does not begin receiving the spent fuel from Plant Hatch in 2003 or from Plant Vogtle in 2008, alternative methods of spent fuel storage will be needed. Activities for adding dry cast storage capacity at Plant Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress. (See "ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS--Nuclear Regulation" for a discussion of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 regarding nuclear fuel cost.)
CO-OWNERS OF THE PLANTS AND THE PLANT AGREEMENTS
Co-owners of the Plants
Plants Hatch, Vogtle, Wansley and Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 are co-owned by Oglethorpe, GPC, MEAG and Dalton, and Rocky Mountain is co-owned by Oglethorpe and GPC. Each such co-owner owns, and Oglethorpe owns or leases, undivided interests in the amounts shown in the following table (which excludes the Plant Wansley combustion turbine). GPC is the operating agent for each of these plants, except for Rocky Mountain for which Oglethorpe is the operating agent. (See "The Plant Agreements" herein.)
- ----------
(1) Based on nameplate ratings.
(2) Oglethorpe leases its interest in Scherer Unit No. 2 pursuant to long-term net leases.
Georgia Power Company
GPC is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Southern Company, a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act, and is engaged primarily in the generation and purchase of electric energy and the transmission, distribution and sale of such energy within the State of Georgia at retail in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome and Valdosta), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to Oglethorpe, MEAG and three municipalities. GPC is the largest supplier of electric energy in the State of Georgia. (See "OGLETHORPE POWER CORPORATION--Relationship with GPC" in Item 1.)
GPC is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and, in accordance therewith, files reports and other information with the Commission. Copies of this material can be obtained at prescribed rates from the Commission's Public Reference Section at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Room 1024, Washington, D.C. 20549. Certain securities of GPC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and reports and other information concerning GPC can be inspected at the office of such Exchange.
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia
MEAG, an instrumentality of the State of Georgia, was created for the purpose of providing electric capacity and energy to those political subdivisions of the State of Georgia that owned and operated electric distribution systems at that time. MEAG (who also markets under the name of MEAG Power) has entered into power sales contracts with each of 48 cities and one county in the State of Georgia. Such political subdivisions, located in 39 of the State's 159 counties, collectively serve approximately 270,000 electric customers.
City of Dalton, Georgia
The City of Dalton, located in northwest Georgia, supplies electric capacity and energy to consumers in Dalton, and presently serves more than 10,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers.
The Plant Agreements
Hatch, Wansley, Vogtle and Scherer
Oglethorpe's rights and obligations with respect to Plants Hatch, Wansley, Vogtle and Scherer are contained in a number of contracts between Oglethorpe and GPC and, in some instances, MEAG and Dalton. Oglethorpe is a party to four Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreements ("Ownership Agreements") under which it acquired from GPC a 30% undivided interest in each of Plants Hatch, Wansley and Vogtle, a 60% undivided interest in Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 and a 30% undivided interest in those facilities at Plant Scherer intended to be used in common by Scherer Units No. 1, No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4 (the "Scherer Common Facilities"). Oglethorpe has also entered into four Operating Agreements ("Operating Agreements") relating to the operation and maintenance of Plants Hatch, Wansley, Vogtle and Scherer, respectively. The Operating Agreements and Ownership Agreements relating to Plants Hatch and Wansley are two-party agreements between Oglethorpe and GPC. The other Operating Agreements and Ownership Agreements are agreements among Oglethorpe, GPC, MEAG and Dalton. The parties to each Ownership Agreement and each Operating Agreement are referred to as "Participants" with respect to each such agreement.
In 1985, in four separate transactions, Oglethorpe sold its entire 60% undivided ownership interest in Scherer Unit No. 2 to four separate owner trusts established by four different institutional investors. (See Note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8.) Oglethorpe retained all of its rights and obligations as a Participant under the Ownership and Operating Agreements relating to Scherer Unit No. 2 for the term of the leases. (In the following discussion, references to Participants "owning" a specified percentage of interests include Oglethorpe's rights as a deemed owner with respect to its leased interests in Scherer Unit No. 2.)
The Ownership Agreements appoint GPC as agent with sole authority and responsibility for, among other things, the planning, licensing, design, construction, renewal, addition, modification and disposal of Plants Hatch, Vogtle, Wansley and Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 and the Scherer Common Facilities. Under the Ownership Agreements, Oglethorpe is obligated to pay a percentage of capital costs of the respective plants, as incurred, equal to the percentage interest which it owns or leases at each plant. GPC has responsibility for budgeting capital expenditures subject to, in the case of Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2, certain limited rights of the Participants to disapprove capital budgets proposed by GPC and to substitute alternative capital budgets and in the case of Plants Hatch and Vogtle, the right of any co-owner to disapprove large discretionary capital improvements.
Each Operating Agreement gives GPC, as agent, sole authority and responsibility for the management, control, maintenance, operation, scheduling and dispatching of the plant to which it relates. However, as provided in the amendments to the Plant Scherer Ownership and Operating Agreements, Oglethorpe is separately dispatching its ownership share of Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2. Similar amendments to the Plant Wansley Operating Agreement have recently been entered into and Oglethorpe expects to begin dispatching separately its ownership share in Plant Wansley in 1997. (See "GENERATING FACILITIES--Fuel Supply".) In 1990, the co-owners of Plants Hatch and Vogtle entered into the Nuclear Managing Board Agreement which amended the Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle Ownership and Operating agreements, primarily with respect to GPC's reporting requirements, but did not alter GPC's role as agent with respect to the nuclear plants. In 1993, the co-owners entered into the Amended and Restated Nuclear Managing Board Agreement (the "Amended and Restated NMBA") which provides for a managing board (the "Nuclear Managing Board") to coordinate the implementation and administration of the Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle Ownership and Operating Agreements and provides for increased rights for the co-owners regarding certain decisions and allowed GPC to contract with a
third party for the operation of the nuclear units. In connection with the recent amendments to the Plant Scherer Ownership and Operating Agreements, the co-owners of Plant Scherer entered into the Plant Scherer Managing Board Agreement which provides for a managing board (the "Plant Scherer Managing Board") to coordinate the implementation and administration of the Plant Scherer Ownership and Operating Agreements and provides for increased rights for the co-owners regarding certain decisions, but does not alter GPC's role as agent with respect to Plant Scherer.
The Operating Agreements provide that Oglethorpe is entitled to a percentage of the net capacity and net energy output of each plant or unit equal to its percentage undivided interest owned or leased in such plant or unit, subject to its obligation to sell capacity and energy to GPC as described below. Except as otherwise provided, each party is responsible for a percentage of Operating Costs (as defined in the Operating Agreements) and fuel costs of each plant or unit equal to the percentage of its undivided interest which is owned or leased in such plant or unit. For Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 and for Plant Wansley, once Oglethorpe begins separate dispatch there, each party will be responsible for its fuel costs and for variable Operating Costs in proportion to the net energy output for its ownership interest, while responsibility for fixed Operating Costs will continue to be equal to the percentage undivided ownership interest which is owned or leased in such unit. GPC is required to furnish budgets for Operating Costs, fuel plans and scheduled maintenance plans subject to, in the case of Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2, certain limited rights of the Participants to disapprove such budgets proposed by GPC and to substitute alternative budgets. The Ownership Agreements and Operating Agreements provide that, should a Participant fail to make any payment when due, among other things, such nonpaying Participant's rights to output of capacity and energy would be suspended.
The Operating Agreement for Plant Hatch will remain in effect with respect to Hatch Units No. 1 and No. 2 until 2009 and 2012, respectively. The Operating Agreement for Plant Vogtle will remain in effect with respect to each unit at Plant Vogtle until 2018. The Operating Agreement for Plant Wansley will remain in effect with respect to Wansley Units No. 1 and No. 2 until 2016 and 2018, respectively. The Operating Agreement for Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 will remain in effect with respect to Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 until 2022 and 2024, respectively. Upon termination of each Operating Agreement, GPC will retain such powers as are necessary in connection with the disposition of the property of the applicable plant, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall continue with respect to actions and expenses taken or incurred in connection with such disposition.
Proposed Changes to Nuclear Plant Operating Arrangements
In September 1992, GPC filed applications with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the "NRC") to add SONOPCO to the operating license of each unit of Plants Hatch and Vogtle and designate SONOPCO as the operator. The application has been recently approved by the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board and became effective in late March. SONOPCO, a subsidiary of The Southern Company specializing in nuclear services, currently provides certain operating, maintenance, and other services to GPC in accordance with the Amended and Restated NMBA and the agreements referenced in the Amended and Restated NMBA. The co-owners had previously agreed to a Nuclear Operating Agreement between GPC and SONOPCO, which became operative on the effective date of the license amendment.
Rocky Mountain
Oglethorpe's rights and obligations with respect to Rocky Mountain are contained in several contracts between Oglethorpe and GPC, the co-owners of Rocky Mountain. Pursuant to Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Ownership Participation Agreement, by and between Oglethorpe and GPC (the "Ownership Participation Agreement"), Oglethorpe initially acquired a 3% undivided interest in Rocky Mountain which interest increased as Oglethorpe expended funds to complete construction of Rocky Mountain. The final ownership percentages for Rocky Mountain are Oglethorpe 74.61% and GPC 25.39%. In connection with this
acquisition, Oglethorpe and GPC also entered into the Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project Operating Agreement (the "Rocky Mountain Operating Agreement").
The Ownership Participation Agreement appoints Oglethorpe as agent with sole authority and responsibility for, among other things, the planning, licensing, design, construction, operation, maintenance and disposal of Rocky Mountain. The Rocky Mountain Operating Agreement gives Oglethorpe, as agent, sole authority and responsibility for the management, control, maintenance and operation of Rocky Mountain. In general, each co-owner is responsible for payment of its respective ownership share of all Operating Costs and Pumping Energy Costs (as defined in the Rocky Mountain Operating Agreement) as well as costs incurred as the result of any separate schedule or independent dispatch. A co-owner's share of net available capacity and net energy is the same as its respective ownership interest under the Ownership Participation Agreement. Oglethorpe and GPC have each elected to schedule separately their respective ownership interests. The Rocky Mountain Operating Agreement will terminate in 2035.
Oglethorpe completed, in two separate closings on December 31, 1996 and January 3, 1997, lease transactions for its 74.61% undivided ownership interest in Rocky Mountain. Under the terms of these transactions, Oglethorpe leased the facility to three institutional investors for a term of 71 years, who in turn leased it back to Oglethorpe for a term of 30 years. The transactions are characterized as a sale and lease-back for income tax purposes, but not for financial reporting purposes. Oglethorpe will continue to control and operate the plant during the lease-back term, and it fully intends to repurchase tax ownership and to retain all other rights of ownership with respect to the plant at the end of the lease-back period. As a result of these transactions, Oglethorpe received net proceeds of approximately $96 million which is being recorded as a deferred credit and will be recognized in income over the term of the lease-back. Approximately $91 million of the proceeds will be used for the early retirement of FFB debt, with the remaining $5 million being used to pay alternative minimum taxes on the transactions. The combination of the debt prepayment and the amortized gain will result in an estimated $11 million in annual savings. In connection with these transactions, Oglethorpe is obligated to maintain liquidity from various sources of approximately $50 million.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS
General
As is typical in the utility industry, Oglethorpe is subject to Federal, State and local air and water quality requirements which, among other things, regulate emissions of pollutants, such as particulate matter ("PM"), sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides ("NOx") into the air and discharges of other pollutants, including heat, into waters of the United States. Oglethorpe is also subject to Federal, State and local waste disposal requirements which regulate the manner of transportation, storage and disposal of solid and other waste. In general, environmental requirements are becoming increasingly stringent, and further or new requirements may substantially increase the cost of electric service by requiring changes in the design or operation of existing facilities as well as changes or delays in the location, design, construction or operation of new facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties as well as the complete shutdown of individual generating units not in compliance. There is no assurance that the units in operation will always remain subject to the regulations currently in effect or will always be in compliance with future regulations.
Compliance with environmental standards or deadlines will continue to be reflected in Oglethorpe's capital and operating costs. Oglethorpe's direct capital costs to achieve compliance with environmental requirements are expected to be an aggregate of approximately $250,000 for 1997, 1998 and 1999.
Clean Air Act
The Clean Air Act seeks to improve air quality throughout the United States. The acid rain provisions of the Clean Air Act require the reduction of sulfur dioxide ("SO2") and NOx emissions from affected units, including coal-fired electric power facilities. The SO2 reductions required by the Clean Air Act will be achieved in two phases. Phase I addresses specific generating units named in the Clean Air Act. Both units of Plant Wansley are "affected units" under Phase I. Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 are not "affected units" under Phase I but are "affected units" under Phase II. Beginning in 1995, Phase I affected units became subject to the SO2 emission allowance trading program. Emission allowances are issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), based on statutory allocations in Phase I and on fossil fuel consumption for affected units from 1985 through 1987 for Phase II. An allowance, which gives the holder the authority to emit one ton of SO2 during a calendar year, is transferable and can be bought, sold or banked for use in the years following its issuance. Oglethorpe expects to comply with Phase I requirements through the use of its allowances coupled with switching to lower sulfur coal, a compliance strategy that has required some equipment upgrades at Plant Wansley and may result in unused allowances that can be banked for future use or sold.
For Phase II, which begins in the year 2000, when total U.S. emissions of SO2 will be capped at 8.9 million tons, Oglethorpe could use a variety of options for SO2 compliance, including use of emission allowances (allocated, banked or purchased, if needed), fuel-switching or installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment. Achieving compliance with Phase II has already resulted in some equipment upgrades at Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2.
Although some NOx regulations implementing the requirements of the Clean Air Act have been finalized for some time, others have recently been promulgated and there remains the possibility that further regulation of NOx emissions from utility sources could be imposed. EPA recently issued a final rule lowering the NOx emission standard for boiler types such as those found at Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2. These rules have been challenged, however, and whether the new NOx emission standards will ultimately be imposed at Plant Scherer Units No. 1 and
No. 2 is not known. Depending on the form those NOx rules take after the associated litigation has ended, additional expenditures for pollution control equipment may be incurred.
In general, compliance with the Clean Air Act will continue to require expenditures for monitoring and permitting, and in some instances may involve increased operating or maintenance expenses. Capital expenditures of Oglethorpe through 1996 for pollution control equipment needed to comply with the Clean Air Act at Plant Wansley have been approximately $7,200,000 and at Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 have been approximately $720,000. Although the estimated cost of any additional improvements at Plant Wansley and Scherer Units No. 1 and No. 2 remains dependent upon the chosen compliance plan and may be affected by future plan amendments and/or future regulation, Oglethorpe has budgeted approximately $250,000 in capital expenditures for Clean Air Act and related projects over the next three years. In addition, the final capital cost of improvements and any effect on operating costs will be determined by the compliance plan as finally implemented and any applicable regulatory changes.
Metropolitan Atlanta is classified as a "serious nonattainment area" with regard to the ozone ambient air quality standards. The Clean Air Act, under which these standards are promulgated, requires the State of Georgia to conduct specific studies and establish new rules regulating sources of NOx and volatile organic compounds ("VOC"), to achieve attainment of the standards by 1999 and to maintain compliance thereafter. These studies could result in new rules for power plants in the State, including Plants Wansley and Scherer. Further, along with 36 other states in the eastern half of the U.S., Georgia, as a member of the Ozone Transport Assessment Group ("OTAG"), is performing extensive photochemical grid modeling in an effort to reach a consensus among its member states as to the strategies needed to reduce ozone and its precursors (including NOx). Large, stationary sources of NOx have been a focus for OTAG. Originally, each OTAG state was to have new emission reduction strategies in place by late spring or early summer of 1997. However, EPA has stated its intention to specify the overall amount of NOx and VOC emission reductions that must be achieved by each OTAG state.
Plant Wansley is near the non-attainment area while Plant Scherer is located further away. The results of these studies and new rules could require NOx controls more stringent than those now required under the acid rain provisions of the Clean Air Act for compliance. Portions of Subchapter I of the Clean Air Act also require that several studies be conducted regarding the health effects of power plant emissions of certain hazardous air pollutants. The studies will be used in making decisions on whether additional controls of these pollutants are necessary. The effect of any of these potential regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act, including new rules under the amended provisions, can not now be predicted.
The Clean Air Act also requires EPA to review all National Ambient Air Quality Standards ("NAAQS") periodically, revising such standards as necessary. Last year, EPA decided not to impose a new short-term standard for sulfur oxides (measured as SO2). That decision has been appealed, however, so that it is still possible that a new SO2 standard could be promulgated. If a new short-term NAAQS for SO2 were imposed, it might require new emission controls at Plants Wansley and Scherer, which could result in substantial costs to Oglethorpe.
EPA has also proposed to revise the NAAQS for both ozone and PM. Either of these proposals, if finalized, could have a substantial effect on the types of controls that might be needed at Plants Wansley or Scherer for compliance. However, the final impacts (and any associated expenditures) at either plant can not now be predicted with any certainty. In fact, the impact of any change in these NAAQS can not now be determined, because the effect of any change would depend in part on the final ambient standards developed.
Although Oglethorpe's management is currently unable to determine the overall effect that compliance with requirements under the Clean Air Act will have on its operations, it does not believe that any required increases in capital or operating expenses would have a material effect on its results of operations or its financial condition. Compliance with the requirements under the Clean Air Act may also require increased capital or operating expenses on the part of GPC. Any increases in GPC's capital or operating expenses may cause an
increase in the cost of power purchased from GPC. (See "MEMBER REQUIREMENTS AND POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Power Purchase and Sale Arrangements--Power Purchases from GPC" in Item 1.)
Clean Water Act
For some time now, Congress has been considering reauthorization of the Clean Water Act. If that occurs, Oglethorpe's operations could be affected. However, the full impact of any reauthorization cannot now be determined and will depend on the specific changes to the statute, as well as to any implementing state or federal regulations that might be promulgated.
At the state level, EPA is under Federal court order to begin development of Total Maximum Daily Loads ("TMDLs") for all of Georgia's stream segments that do not yet meet established water quality standards. The order calls for a strict schedule for the development of such TMDLs, beginning in the summer of 1997. Oglethorpe cannot now predict what impact, if any, such development will have on the operations of Plants Wansley, Scherer, Hatch or Vogtle, because the effect will depend on the final TMDLs to be developed and EPA's (and the state's) approach for revising National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits to achieve the desired TMDLs and ultimately achieve the required water quality standards.
Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act ("GHSRA")
GHSRA requires the compilation and listing of an inventory of all known or suspected sites where "regulated substances" have been disposed of or released in quantities deemed reportable by the state. In developing this list, which includes hundreds of sites, one site co-owned by Oglethorpe was listed. The site is located at Plant Wansley and consists of an ash pond. As the operating agent of the plant, GPC will conduct the required remedial investigation in late 1997 or early 1998, to determine if any clean-up activities are required. At this time, it is uncertain whether any remediation will be required and what the timing of any required remediation might be. If remediation is required, Oglethorpe could incur up to an estimated $800,000 in clean-up costs and $6 million in capital costs, associated with the redevelopment of the ash pond. Additional sites may require investigation and remediation expenses, a portion or all of which Oglethorpe may be liable for. At this time, Oglethorpe does not believe that any capital or operating costs associated with GHSRA clean-ups would have a material effect on its results of operations or its financial condition.
Nuclear Regulation
Oglethorpe is subject to the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the "Atomic Energy Act"), which vests jurisdiction in the NRC over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, particularly with regard to certain public health, safety and antitrust matters. The National Environmental Policy Act has been construed to expand the jurisdiction of the NRC to consider the environmental impact of a facility licensed under the Atomic Energy Act. Plants Hatch and Vogtle are being operated under licenses issued by the NRC. All aspects of the operation and maintenance of nuclear power plants are regulated by the NRC. From time to time, new NRC regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear reactors. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires. (See "CO-OWNERS OF THE PLANTS AND THE PLANT AGREEMENTS--The Plant Agreements--Proposed Changes to Nuclear Plant Operating Arrangements".)
Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, the Federal government has the regulatory responsibility for the final disposition of commercially produced high-level radioactive waste materials, including
spent nuclear fuel. Such Act requires the owner of nuclear facilities to enter into disposal contracts with DOE for such material. These contracts require each such owner to pay a fee which is currently one dollar per MWh for the net electricity generated and sold by each of its reactors. (See "GENERATING FACILITIES--Fuel Supply".)
For information concerning nuclear insurance, see Note 8 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8. For information regarding NRC's regulation relating to decommissioning of nuclear facilities and regarding DOE's assessments pursuant to the Energy Policy Act for decontamination and decommissioning of nuclear fuel enrichment facilities, see Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8.
Other Environmental Regulation
In 1993, EPA issued a ruling confirming the non-hazardous status of coal ash. That ruling may apply, however, only to situations where those wastes are not co-managed, i.e. not mixed with other wastes. Pursuant to court order, EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed utility wastes as either hazardous or non-hazardous. If the wastes are classified as hazardous, substantial additional costs for the management of such wastes might be required, although the full impact would depend on the subsequent development of requirements pertaining to these wastes.
Oglethorpe is subject to other environmental statutes including, but not limited to, the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), the Resource Conservation & Recovery Act ("RCRA"), the Endangered Species Act ("ESA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, and to the regulations implementing these statutes. Oglethorpe does not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations will have a material impact on its operations. Changes to any of these laws, however, could affect many areas of Oglethorpe's operations. Congress is considering amending the ESA and reauthorizing CERCLA, TSCA and perhaps RCRA. Although compliance with new environmental legislation could have a significant impact on Oglethorpe, those impacts cannot be fully determined at this time and would depend in part on the final legislation and the development of implementing regulations.
The scientific community, regulatory agencies and the electric utility industry are continuing to examine the issues of global warming and the possible health effects of electromagnetic fields. While no definitive scientific conclusions have been reached regarding these issues, it is possible that new laws or regulations pertaining to these matters could increase the capital and operating costs of electric utilities, including Oglethorpe or entities from which Oglethorpe purchases power. In addition, the potential for liability exists from lawsuits alleging damages from electromagnetic fields.
Energy Policy Act
The Energy Policy Act allows for increased competition among wholesale electric suppliers and increased access to transmission services by such suppliers. It created a new class of utilities called Exempt Wholesale Generators ("EWGs"), which are exempt from certain restrictions otherwise imposed by the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The effect of this exemption is to facilitate the development of independent third-party generators potentially available to satisfy utilities' needs for increased power supplies. Unlike purchases from qualifying facilities under PURPA (see "MEMBER REQUIREMENTS AND POWER SUPPLY RESOURCES--Power Purchase and Sales Arrangements--Other Power Purchases" in Item 1), utilities have no statutory obligation to purchase power from EWGs. Furthermore, EWGs are precluded from making direct sales to retail electricity customers.
The Energy Policy Act also broadened the authority of FERC to require a utility to transmit power to or on behalf of other participants in the electric utility industry, including EWGs and qualifying facilities, but FERC is precluded from requiring a utility to transmit power from another entity directly to a retail customer. In 1996,
FERC issued two final rules (Orders 888 and 889) and a notice of proposed rulemaking regarding capacity reservation tariffs that would make significant changes in the form of transmission services performed by public utilities subject to FERC's jurisdiction. See "OGLETHORPE POWER CORPORATION--Relationship with GTC" in Item 1 for information regarding GTC's transmission tariff.
Item 3.