ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
General
As of December 31, 2008, China Shen Zhou Mining & Resources Inc. owns two properties in the production in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, the Peoples’ Republic of China (“PRC”), and two properties under development, one in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in the PRC and the other in Kyrgyz Republic.
The two properties in production are:
- Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Mine in Siziwangqi of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in the PRC (Xiangzhen Mining);
- Mining site No. 2 of Qingxing Copper Mine (Tanyaokou Copper Mine) in Wulatehouqi of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in the PRC (Qingshan Metal);
The two properties under development are:
- Keyinbulake Cu-Zn Multi-metal Mine located in Buerjin County, Aletai, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in the PRC (Xingzhen Mining).
- Kuru-Tegerek Cu-Au Mine located in Kyrgyz Republic (Tun Lin).
Figure 2-1: China Shen Zhou’s Properties in China
Figure 2-2: China Shen Zhou’s Property in Kyrgyzstan
China Shen Zhou Mining & Resources Inc. holds four mining licenses and three exploration licenses at December 31 of 2008. The licenses are:
-Mining license of Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Mine, Siziwangqi, Inner Mongolia, PRC;
-Mining license of Mining Site No. 2 of Qingxing Copper Mine, Wulatehouqi, Inner Mongolia, PRC;
-Mining license of Keyinbulake Cu-Zn Mine in Buerjin County, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, PRC;
-Mining license of Kuru-Tegerek Cu-Au Mine in Kyrgyz Republic;
-Exploration license of Southern Part of Keyinbulake Zn Mine in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of the PRC;
-Exploration license of Northern Part of Keyinbulake Zn Mine in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of the PRC;
-Exploration license of Kuru-Tegerek Cu-Au Property in the region of Kuru-Tegerek, Kyrgyz Republic
Tables 2-1/2 present detailed information about the licenses.
Table 2-1: 4 Mining Licenses Held by the Company
Table 2-2: 2 Exploration licenses held by the Company
There are two types of mineral rights in China: exploration right and mining right. Exploration right is the right for exploring mineral resources within the areas authorized by the exploration license. Mining right is the right for exploitation of mineral resources and production of mineral products. According to Chinese law, an exploration license is valid for 3 years and shall not be extended beyond two additional periods and each no more than two years . 10, 20 and 30 years are the periods of time for mining licenses for small, medium and large deposits or mine s respectively . The mining license can be extended in scope or periods of time if the company intends to continue to operate . Application for extension needs to be submitted at least 30 days before the expiration date
Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Mine in Production Stage (Xiangzhen Mining)
The Company holds 100% ownership of Sumozaganaobao fluorite mine, which was acquired by Xiangzhen Mining from Inner Mongolia Siziwangqi Northern Fluorite Ltd, Co. in July 2002.
Location, Access and Traffic
Sumozaganaobao fluorite mine is located in Siziwangqi, Wulanchabu City, Inner Mongolia, PRC. The coordinates are: E111°15′35″~111°16′30″; N43°07′10″~43°07′49″. This area is easily accessible, with a mud road of approximate 90km from the mine to Erlianhot and then a freeway or national highway of about 250km to Hohhot, the capital city of Inner Mongolia, China. It has a typical continental climate characterized mainly by low precipitation and high evaporation, a big temperature difference between day and night, and windy conditions. The topography is gentle grassland with an elevation difference of only 20-40m. Figure 2-3 is the index map of Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Mine.
Figure 2-3: Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Mine
Mining Licenses
Inner Mongolia Xiangzhen Mining Group Co Ltd. (Xiangzhen Mining) holds the mining licenses of the area between prospecting line 21 and 04 of Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Deposit. The mining license Number is 1500000820156, issued by the Bureau of Land and Resources in April 2008, Wulanchabu City, Inner Mongolia and expired in March 2011.
Previous exploration and development
In 1975, Geological Survey Brigade No.1 of Inner Mongolia conducted a 1/200,000 geological survey in this area and found Sumochaganaobao Fluorite deposit. The mineral resource was estimated at 1.716 million metric tons of fluorite at that time.
From 1981 to 1987, Geological Survey Brigade No.102 of Inner Mongolia conducted prospecting with continual general and detailed exploration, and completed the “Geological Report of Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Deposit of Siziwangqi, Inner Mongolia” in 1987.
In 1987, the property was mined by a state-owned company, which was later reorganized to become the Siziwangqi Northern Fluorite Ltd, Co in 1997. The mining right was then transferred to Xiangzhen Mining Group Co., Ltd from the Siziwangqi Northern Fluorite Ltd, Co.
Previous Mining Operation and Expansion
From 1987 to 2002, open-pit mining was conducted by a state-owned company of Siziwang Banner. The mining capacity was 8,000-20,000 tons per year and the mining depth reached 58m from elevation of 1,065m to 1,007m. In 1997, the mining right was transferred to Inner Mongolia Siziwangqi Northern Fluorite Ltd, Co.
Since 2002, the underground mining has been conducted by Xiangzhen Mining. Initially, the mining capacity was 80, 000 metric tons per year with a concentrator (about 45km southeast of the mine) with an annual processing capacity of 60,000 metric tons. In April 2006, the Company started an expansion. The new mining capacity designed is 300,000 metric tons per year and the treatment capacity is 200,000 metric tons per year from a concentrator located near the fluorite mine . At the end of 2007 when the expanding construction had basically been completed and commissioning started. The Company invested USD$2,895,380 in underground expansion and USD$7,760,300 in the new concentrator.
Water and Power Supply
Before October 2007, a state power network was not built into the mining area, and power for production and living was supplied by diesel generators. Since October 2007, power has been supplied to the mine by the state power network.
Water supply for production and living is from three wells about one kilometer away from the mine.
Current Mining Operation
Inclined shaft development has been assumed. As a result, currently there are one main inclined shaft, one auxiliary inclined shaft and inclined shaft No.2.
Hoisting and transportation: Underground transportation is carried out by electric locomotives. After loading by rock loaders, ores are transported by the electric locomotive to a shaft station and then lifted to ground by the hoister and unloaded onto a storage platform where high grade lumps (CaF2>80%) are directly sold to consumers (steel plant) after manual classification and the remaining is sent to concentrator for further processing.
Ventilation: fresh air is blown in from the main inclined shaft, passes through the work area and is exhausted out from the auxiliary inclined shaft and inclined shaft No. 2.
Drainage system: water in each level flows into sumps of drifts and is pumped to a pond on a higher level on the ground for secondary use in production.
Mining Method: Short-hole shrinkage stopping method with the mining loss at 25% and dilution at 10% and comprehensive recovery rate of ore at 75%.
Major equipment in the mine is as follows:
Ore Processing :
The newly established concentrator has an annual treatment capacity of 200,000 metric tons. The process consists of two-stage closed crushing with primary and secondary grindings, rough flotation, scavenging, eight steps of cleaning, dehydrating (thickening, filtrating and drying), and final packaging for delivery. The major facilities include a ball mill workshop, a flotation ore processing plant, a press and filtration workshop, concentrate pools, tailings houses, a lab, electronic scales, water supply wells, power supply lines and offices, etc. The major equipment is as follows:
The processing recovery is 83%. Fluorite concentrate grade is over 96%. The main component of fluorite is CaF2, an important chemical that is used in steel making as a flux and in glass making as an additive. The concentrates are in high demand and demand is expected to increase in the future.
Geology of the Property
The Sumochaganaobao fluorite deposit is located in the Suniteyou Banner Fold Zone in late-Varican, Inner Mongolia Fold Belt. The main strata in the property are: late Paleozoic lower Permian System Xilimiao Formation (P1xl) with three sections: P1xl2-4, P1xl3, and P1xl4-1; Proterozoic Ailegemiao Formation and Jurassic Chagannoer group. The fluorite mineralized body and mineralization marble occurs in the lower of P1xl3 and on the top of P1xl2-4.
The mineralized body is bedded, which strikes 40°-60°, dips to 310°-330° at angle 21°-40°, exceptional with 47°. The distribution is stable and continual. The length of mineralized body is 1100 meters; the maximum dip length controlled at present is 1540 meters. The thickness is 0.52 meters to 22.48 meters averaged at 5.80 meters. The mineral is fluorite only, whose main composition is CaF2. The gangue minerals are: quartz, chlorite and sericite. By the contents of useful component, the mineralized body is divided to high grade mineralized material (rich ore), CaF2≥60%, and low grade mineralized material (lean ore), 20% ≤ CaF2≥ 60%.
Mineralized Materials
In March 2007, the Bureau of Land and Resource of Wulanchabu City commissioned the Land-resources Institute of Inner Mongolia to verify the mineralized material in the Mining License area . The Institute submitted “the Verification Report of Resources/Reserve between Prospecting line 21 and 04, of Sumochaganaobao Fluorite Deposit in Siziwangqi, Inner Mongolia.” The “Consulting Center of the China Mining Association” had reviewed and assessed the verification report and recognized the mineralized material statement in the report, and the indicated mineralized materials were confirmed as 5.051 million metric tons of fluorite with the average grade of 57.58%. In 2008, we exacted a total amount of 122,000 metric tons of fluorite ore, which consumed 163,000 metric tons of the indicated mineralized materials. As of December 31, 2008, there are 4.888 million metric tons of retained mineralized materials.
Sampling, Analytical Procedures and Quality Control
The core recovery is over 85% for the drill holes. The samples were taken by splitting the core into halves, one half being the sample and the other half being stored in the core box. Sample length was usually 0.5 meters to 1.5 meters and core recovery is over 85%.
Trenching samples were collected along channels with widths of 10 centimeters and depths of 5 centimeters and in parallel along the walls of the pits. Each sample was 1 to 2 meters in length.
Samples are crushed by three jaw crushers to 0.9mm in size and then are split. About 500 grams of each sample is sent for pulverization and the rest are kept as coarse rejects. 100 grams of each pulp sample are sent to the lab for assaying and the rest are stored. Items of CaF2, CaCO3, SiO2, Fe2O3 and S are assayed in the lab.
Assaying of samples was completed in the laboratory of Geological Brigade No.102 of Inner Mongolia and checked by the Central Laboratory of Bureau of Geology of Inner Mongolia. Internal and external check samples were assayed: 95% of samples sent for internal checkup and 6.4% for external checkup. The qualification rate of the check samples was above 95%. The criteria of Barite, Fluorite and Boron Exploration were also adopted in sample assaying.
Products and Output:
The mine produces fluorite ores which are classified into two commodities, one being high grade fluorite lump and the second being fluorite powders processed in concentrator. The following table lists the products and output and the average prices in past three years:
Table 2-3: The Output and Price of Products of 2006-2008, Xiangzhen Mining, Ltd .
Potential for Further Exploration
In June 2007, the Company hired the Third Geological Prospecting Institute of China Metallurgy Geological General Bureau to conduct supplementary prospecting. As result of it, Category of this fluorite mine is upgraded.
There is low possibly to find new ore bodies or extensions to existing ore bodies since the deposit is well defined and well understood geologically.
The Kuru-Tegerek Cu-Au Mine Under Development (Tun Lin)
The company indirectly holds 100% ownership of Tun Lin Limited Liability Company (“Tun Lin”), a Kyrgyz Republic registered company which entirely owns Kichi-Chaarat Closed Joint Stock Company. The major asset of Kichi-Chaarat is the subsoil use right for (i) mining gold and other metals within the Kuru-Tegerek licensed area, and (ii) exploring gold and other metals within the Kuru-Tegerek licensed area.
Location, Accessibility, Geography and Climate
The Kuru-Tegerek Cu-Au Mine is located in Chatkal region of the province of Jalal-Abad in the western part of Kyrgyzstan (see the Figure below). It occupies a southern slope of the Chandalash range, which is part of the Talas Altai Mountains between the Chakmakus River and the Kuru-Tegerek River. The geographic coordinates of the deposit are: 42°02'N and 71°25'E.
The mine is about 120 kilometers away from the station near Talas City, which is to the west of the capital city Bishkek. It is easily accessible via road.
The Kuru-Tegerek region has a typical continental climate with fast temperature changes daily and seasonally and characterized by cold winters and hot summers.
Figure 2-4: The Kuru-Tegerek Region
Mining and Exploration Licenses
Kichi Chaarat CJS Company currently holds two licenses: one mining license No. 8063-3300- AO( ИУ ) 21984940 covering 105 hectares (h) over the Kuru-Tegerek area, which was issued by the Ministry of Land and Mine of Kyrgyzstan and expired in December 31, 2021, and an exploration license No. 8063-3300- AO( ИУ ) 21984940 covering 39,500 hectares (h) of the area of the eastern slope of the Sandal mountain range including the Kuru-Tegerek mountain, which was issued by the Ministry of Land and Mine of Kyrgyzstan and will expire in December 31, 2009.
History of Exploration
The regional geological investigations started in 1963 and ended in 1980, executed by Geological Bureaus of former Soviet Union and Kyrgyzstan. The following major and basic prospecting work has been completed.
1.
Trenching: systematically disclosed the deposit in spacing 25-50 meters;
2.
Drilling: completed drilling of 40,028 meters both on ground and underground (at elevations of 2,505, 2,722 and 2,880). In the southern part of the deposit, drilling was conducted in the grids of 100m x 100m from the ground surface deep to elevation 2,505m, below which was the grids of 200x100m. In the eastern and western part, the grid is between 100x100-200x100m.
3.
Pitting: 19,037 meters
4.
Topographic survey, assaying and ore dressing test:
In 2007, the Company entrusted Kyrgyz Avista Geology Team to conduct geological work in the 20 km 2 area around the deposit, which had discovered a good clue for gold mine.
In compliance with the requirements of the mining permit, the Company also entrusted Kentoo Research Center (Kyrgyzstan) to undertake the mine design of upper part oxide deposit, based upon which the construction in the mine can start with the approval of the Kyrgyz government.
Geology of the Property
The Cu-Au deposit of Kuru-Tegerek is associated with intrusive quartz porphyry diorite which represents the first stage of Sandalash-Chatkal complex.
The mineralization of gold is mainly restricted in contact zones with skarns and marbles or around the carbonated rock among skarn body on the ground.
The mineralization of copper occurs during the beresitization in the formation course of magnesium metasomatism. There is no more decrease of copper contents in the deep part.
Gold mineralization concentrating in beresite metasomatism has a good development on the upper part of deposit. Due to the gradual disappearance of this mineralization, the distribution of these rocks is decreased along with increase of depth and the content of gold is also sharply reduced.
The mineralized bodies occur mostly lense-like with thickness generally varying from 10 to 50 meters, and the dips of the shoots vary from 45° to 60° .
The main minerals are: chalcopyrite, pyrrhotite, magnetite, pyrite, and native gold. More rarely present: covelite, chalcocite, molybdenite, arsenopyrite, cobaltite, sphalerite, bismuthinite, and minerals of platinum.
Mineralized Materials/Reserves
In 2006, Ken-Too conducted a feasibility study for the Kuru-Tegerek deposit and a reserve estimate of the upper part of the deposit (layers of the oxide ore for open pit mining). With a gold price $400 USD/oz, copper $2,400 USD/t, copper recovery rate of dressing 62% and gold recovery 80%, production cost of copper $1,914 USD/t, production cost of gold $9USD/t and economic cutoff grade 2g/t, the proven reserves was confirmed as 3.66 million metric tons (excluding mining losses) with an average copper grade 0.78% and gold 2.95g/t.
In July 2008, based on this feasibility study for the Kuru-Tegerek deposit of the upper part of the deposit (layers of the oxide ore for open pit mining), the mining program designed was completed by Ken-Too Design Institute. With a gold price $550 USD/oz, copper $5,000 USD/t, and economic cutoff grade 2g/t, the proven recoverable reserves was confirmed as 4.5022 million metric tons (excluding mining losses) with an average copper grade 1.00% and gold 2.79g/t.
It is obvious that this reserve is only a small portion (which can be extracted by open pit mining) of the whole deposit where the total mineralized materials is 172.66 million metric tons with the average grade of copper at 0.60% and gold at 0.56g/t.
Sampling, Analytical Procedures and Quality Control
During exploration, the samples were taken of outcrop mineralized body, skarns, strongly corroded intrusive rocks and limestone. The sampling methods include trenching, coring and other ways. In addition, the ore bodies were taken the samples. The process samples and the samples to determine the mass of ore and wall rock were taken as well.
Trenching sampling was undertaken in sublevels based on the geological outline and the extents of hydrothermal alteration and metasomatic alteration. The average length of each sample was 1 meters (sometime between 05-1.5 meters) with a channel section size of 0.1 m (wide) x 0.5 m (deep). The length of the trenching sample varies with the mineralization characteristics and the thickness of mineralized band and mineralized body. 28,643 samples were taken in trenching.
For the cores drilled from 1966 to 1968, the samples were taken by splitting the core into halves, one half being the sample, and the other half being stored in core box. With the drilling cores of hydrothermal alteration rock taken in preliminary phase from 1969 to 1980, samples were systematically taken. In order to guarantee the weight of samples, the samples were usually taken over 0.3 meters in length. 13,700 samples were taken in cores. The core recovery is about 70% for the drill holes.
For samples of trenching and coring, sample preparations were completed respectively in the crushing workshops of Geological Brigade of Southern Kyrgyz, Geological Bureau of (former) Soviet Socialism Republic of Kyrgyz, Geological Bureau of (former) Soviet Socialism Republic of Uzbek and Geological Bureau of (former) Soviet Socialism Republic of Kazakhstan. Sample preparation was made according to the formula Q= Kd3 with K value=0.8.
Assaying of samples was also completed respectively in the laboratories of Geological Team of Southern Kyrgyz, Geological Bureau of (former) Soviet Socialism Republic of Kyrgyz, Geological Bureau of (former) Soviet Socialism Republic of Uzbek and Geological Bureau of (former) Soviet Socialism Republic of Kazakhstan. Optical spectrum analysis, chemical analysis, gold-measuring analysis and hydrochemistry analysis were conducted in the assaying of samples.
Internal check samples were assayed. 1,059 samples of trenching and cores were taken in the preliminary phase of exploration and the assaying results of metal copper, gold and molybdenum in different grades were at the range of allowable tolerance. External checks were also carried out: 1,230 samples were taken in the preliminary phase of exploration and the probability factor (t) for metal copper, gold and molybdenum in different grades was less than 2. The results indicate that no systematic tolerance exists in the analysis in labs and all analysis can be used for the calculation of reserve.
Mining Site No. 2 of Qingxing Copper Mine in Production Stage (Qingshan Metal)
Qingshan Metal owns 100% of Qingxing Copper Mine. Before April 2006, Qingshan Metal was owned by several individuals such as Zhu Yongxia. On April 12, 2006, 60% of the shares of Qingshan were transferred to Qianzhen Mining by the shareholders such as Zhu Yongxia.
Location
Mining site No. 2 of the Qingxing Copper Mine is located in Qingshan Town, Wulatehouqi, Bayannoer City, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of the PRC.
The coordinates are E 106º45′15″-106º45’45”, N 47º57′14” - 40º57′45” 。
The mine is 59 kilometers southeast to Linhe Railway Station of Beijing-Lanzhou Railway Line. It is conveniently accessible by highways and telecommunications.
Figure 2-5: Mining Site No. 2 of Qingxing Copper Mine
History of Operation
Qingshan Metal had been in operation for 3 years before it was acquired by the Company. The Mining Project was designed by the Inner Mongolia Metallurgy Design Institute, and the mining capacity designed was 60,000 metric tones per year. The actual mining capacity is 50,000 metric tones of ores per year, of which copper ores account for about 40,000 metric tones and the remaining pertains to 10,000 metric tones of zinc and lead ores.
Geology of the Property
Qingxing Copper Mine is located at west part of the Langshan-Baiyunebo geotectogene, north boundary of North China Platform. The main strata spread over the mine area are Zhaetaishan Formation member 2 (Pt2zh2) and member 3 (Pt2zh3).
The Zhaetaishan member 2 (Pt2zh21) consists of three sequences which are set forth below.
Upper Sequence (Pt2zh23): mineralized bodies occur in this sequence which is comprised of mica quartz schist, carbonaceous mica quartz schist and carbonaceous phyllitic quartz schist.
Middle Sequence (Pt2zh22): carbonaceous slate, carbonaceous phyllite, banded carbonaceous quartzite, bearing-carbon quartzite, dark quartzite and tremolite, diopsidite etc.
Lower Sequence (Pt2zh21): lower part consists of carbonaceous phyllite; carbonaceous slate inter-bedded calcareous chlorite schist, chlorite quartz schist and lens of crystal carbonate, followed by biotitic quartz schist, andalusite-mica schist and bearing-carbon mica quartz schist.
The Zhaetaishan member 3 (Pt2zh3) consists of lower sequence of quartz schist and upper sequence of middle-thick quartzite inter-bedded thin quartzite.
The strata occur as monocline which strikes southwest and dips to northwest at 30-89 ° . All faults were formed after the metallic mineralization that re-constructed the mineralized -bodies.
Mineralized bodies, strictly controlled by the stratum, are blind and covered by gossans. There are two known mineralization zones, mineralization zone 3# and mineralization zone 5#. Zone 3# is distributed in north of the property which is 500 meters long and 10-30 meters wide, within which the mineralized body No.1 Cu-1 and No.2 Zn-1, No.3 Zn-2 were defined. Zone 5# is distributed in middle-south of the property which is 850 meters in length and 10-40 meters in width, where mineralized body No.4 Cu-2, No.5 Zn-3 as well as No.6 Zn-4 were defined.
Main metallic minerals are comprised of chalcopyrite, galena, sphalerite and pyrite and main gangue consists of quartz, calcite and chlorite.
Mining and Extraction technical conditions:
Mineralized body is inclined with the occurrence stratified and stratoid with small thickness but stable. It has simple conditions of hydrogeology and engineering geology with well stability of slake on top of mineralized body. In topography, incision is deep. It is available with good conditions of pit mining.
The Current Situation of the Mine
When the mine was acquired by the Company, the mining system already existed. Adit development system has been assumed.
Transportation: Underground transportation is carried out by electric locomotives. After they are loaded by rock loaders, ores are transported by the electric locomotive underground, and then lifted to ground by the hoister and unloaded onto a storage yard.
Ventilation: fresh air is blown in from sublevel adit, passes through the work area and is exhausted out from the special shaft of ventilation connected to ground.
Drainage system: Adit development has the conditions of underground water naturally discharged from waterway in adits.
Mining Method: Short-hole shrinkage stopping method with the mining loss at 25% and dilution at 15% and comprehensive recovery rate at 80%.
Major equipment in the mine is as follows:
Power and Water Supply
There is a 10 KV power supply line for mining production. Water is supplied by a special water pipe line from the He Tao Plain about 5 kilometers to the south of the Mining Ares.
Mineralized Materials
In January 2007, Wulatehouqi Qingshan Non-ferrous Metals entrusted No.3 Geological Exploration Institute of China Metallurgy Geological Bureau to conduct the supplementary geological survey on the “Tanyaokou Multi-Metal Zinc-copper Mine”, between prospecting line 42-58. The final supplementary geological survey was reported in May 2007, which confirmed the mineralized materials and category within the mining area. As of April 30, 2007, the total retained indicated mineralized materials is 1.81 million metric tons with the average grade at 0.6%. Our plan for 2008 was to carry out exploration and prepare for mining in the first half of the year, and start mining in the second half of the year and then supply ores to Qianzhen. Due to the decrease in the price of copper, Qingshan did not move on to mining in 2008.
Potential for Further Exploration
In the mining process, two mining tunnels in 1 ,390m level and in 1,350m level intercepted Cu-2 mineralized body which improves the control degree and has increased the resources of Cu-2 mineralized body from 0.0286 million metric tons to 1.3778 million metric tons. Our geological consultant believes that if further exploration is conducted in the future, more minerals could be defined. Drilling will upgrade some of the mineralized materials to Category C (332). Underground exploration (associated with mining operation) should upgrade the mineralized material categories, and explore the extension deeply. In 2008, 865 meters of exploration was completed.
Keyinbulake Cu-Zn Property in Development Stage (Xingzhen Mining)
Xingzhen Mining owns 100% of the Keyinbulake Multi-Metal Property. Before 2004 it was operated by Xinjiang Tianxiang New Tech Co. Ltd (“Tianxiang”) and Mr. Li Leyi together. On April 28, 2006 Xiangzhen Mining acquired 80% of the ownership, and on June 25, 2007 Xiangzhen acquired another 10% from Tianxiang. By December 31, 2007, Xiangzhen Mining owned 90% of Xingzhen Mining.
Location and Traffic
Keyinbulake Multi-Metal Property is located in Buerjin County, Aletai, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The coordinates are E 87º17′30″-87º9’30”, N 47º58′30” - 47º59′45”, and the area is in 3.59 km 2 . It is 65 kilometers west-north of Aletai city, and 60 kilometers east-north of Buerjin County, and 26 km east-north of Dulaiti town. With the highway from Aletai city to Dulaiti Town passing through the property, it is conveniently accessible. Figure 2-6 is the index map of the Keyinbulake Multi-Metal Property .
Figure 2-6: Keyinbulake Multi-Metal Property
Previous Geological work:
In June 2006, the Company conducted geological explorations in the mining area by means of ground geophysical prospecting and drilling as well as underground Pitting exploration and drilling. At the end of 2007, ground drilling completed 5909 meters and underground exploration 4322 meters and underground drilling 7389 meters.
In April 2007, the Company began to build a concentrator in the mining area with a daily processing capacity of 600 metric tons (200,000 metric ton/annually). Such a concentrator started to be put into a trial operation in May 2008.
Ore Processing :
The process of concentrator consists of two-stage closed crushing with one stage grindings, flotation of copper primary and zinc secondary, scavenging, two steps of dehydrating (thickening and filtrating). The final products are copper concentrates and zinc concentrates. The major equipment is as follows:
All equipment is brand new and their lives of service are 20 years.
Power and Water Supply
There is a 35Kv high voltage power line from the Buerjin Power Station to the mining area. The Company has built the power line itself.
Three wells 4km away from the mining area provide production and drinking water.
Mineralized Materials
Earth-Physics Exploration Brigade of Xinjiang Non-ferrous Geological Exploration Bureau completed the Geological Evaluation between May 2002 and July 2006, and the survey was reported on August 31, 2006. The Technology Commission examined and approved this survey report on September 5, 2006.
In June 2007, the No.3 Geological Prospecting Institute of China Metallurgical Geological Bureau conducted a supplementary survey on the Keyinbulake property. In December 2007, it presented the final supplementary prospecting report confirming relevant mineralized materials within the mining property. In this report, the total indicated mineralized materials included 0.6035 million metric tons with an average grade of copper at 0.68% and zinc at 4.19%.
Qianzhen Mining
Qianzhen Mining owns a concentrator with an annual treatment capacity of 200,000 metric tons. The process of concentrator includes two-stage closed crushing with primary and secondary grindings, roughing flotation, scavenging, three steps of cleaning, thickening, filtrating and drying. The major facilities of concentrator include a ball mill workshop, a flotation ore processing plant, a filtration workshop, concentrate pools, dams, a laboratory, electronic scales, water supply wells, power supply lines and offices, etc. The major equipment consists of ball mills (3 sets, 2.1mx3m and 1.5mx3m), 4m³ fl otation machines (24 sets), 2m³flotation machines (12 sets),Φ12m thickeners(1 set), classifiers (2 sets, 1.5mx10m), 20m² filters, pumps, power transformers and power distribution panels and so on. In 2005, Qianzhen Mining invested approximately $750,000 to modernize the processing production line to increase its yearly capacity to approximately 200,000 metric tons. The current equipment is new.
Qianzhen Mining conducts the operation by purchasing zinc, copper and/or lead ore from Qingshan Nonferrous Metal or other suppliers. The final products are in bulk. The transportation means for the products is truck. Table 2-4 shows the annual output and the concentrate’s average price of Qianzhen Mining in past three year.
Table 2-4: Annual treatment & concentrate average price in last three years of Qianzhen Mining
ITEM 3.