ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
GENERAL The Orchards consist of a total of approximately 4,027 tree acres of macadamia orchards on the island of Hawaii. Of that acreage, the orchards acquired in 1986 (the Existing Orchards) account for approximately 2,689 tree acres, the orchards acquired in 1989 (the New Orchards) account for approximately 1,260 tree acres and the orchard acquired in 1991 (the Lot 10 Orchard) accounts for approximately 78 tree acres.
The Existing Orchards are comprised of the Original Orchards and the December 1986 Orchards. The orchards acquired in June 1986 (the Original Orchards) consist of approximately 2,423 tree acres located in the Ka'u and Keaau areas of the island of Hawaii. The orchards acquired in December 1986 (the December 1986 Orchards) consist of approximately 266 tree acres located in the Ka'u area of the island of Hawaii.
The New Orchards are comprised of the New Ka'u Orchard (consisting of approximately 714 tree acres of macadamia properties located in the Ka'u area of the island of Hawaii), the New Mauna Kea Orchard (consisting of approximately 326 tree acres of
macadamia properties located in the Mauna Kea area of the island of Hawaii) and the New Keaau Orchard (consisting of approximately 220 tree acres of macadamia properties located in the Keaau area of the island of Hawaii).
The Lot 10 Orchard is comprised of 78 tree acres located in the Keaau area of the island of Hawaii.
Location of the Orchards. The Ka'u area is located in the south part of the island about fifty miles from Hilo, the Keaau area is located six miles south of Hilo on the east side of the island, and the Mauna Kea area is located three miles north of Hilo on the east side of the island.
The majority of macadamia nut trees grown in the State of Hawaii are grown on the island of Hawaii in volcanic soil that permits drainage during heavy rainfall. While the orchards are located approximately within a 50-mile radius, the climate and other conditions which affect the growing of macadamia nuts are different. These differences are the result of prevailing wind patterns and island topography which produce a variety of microclimates throughout the island.
[MAP SHOWING LOCATIONS OF ORCHARDS]
Age and Density. The productivity of macadamia nut orchards depends on several factors including, among others, the age of the trees, the number of trees planted per acre,
soil condition, climate, rainfall and/or irrigation. The most significant characteristic affecting yields is maturity. The trees in a macadamia nut orchard generally begin to produce nuts at a commercially harvestable level at around nine years of age. Thereafter, nut yields increase gradually until the trees reach maturity, after which the nut yield remains relatively constant except for variances produced by rainfall, cultivation practices, pest infestation and disease.
While there are no reliable data known to the Managing Partner on the maximum productive life of a macadamia nut tree, the USDA has reported that there are macadamia nut trees planted on the island of Hawaii in the 1920's that are still commercially productive. Because around 2% of trees is lost to various causes each year and as those trees are replaced, however, the orchard itself in effect is perpetual and therefore orchard production would not be expected to taper off as a result of tree age.
Macadamia orchards normally reach peak production after fifteen to eighteen years of age. Of the 4,027 tree acres of macadamia orchards owned or leased by the Partnership, 2,721 tree acres are over eighteen years of age and roughly 1,306 tree acres are under eighteen years of age.
The acreage, year planting was completed and yield for each orchard is summarized below:
________________________________________________________________________________
(a) Orchards acquired in June 1986. (b) Orchard acquired in December 1986. (c) Orchards acquired in October 1989. (d) Orchard acquired in September 1991.
Rainfall. Macadamia trees grow best in climates with substantial and evenly distributed rainfall (or equivalent irrigation) and in soil that provides good drainage. Inadequate rainfall can significantly reduce nut yields, while excessive rain without adequate drainage can impede healthy tree growth, promote the growth of harmful fungal diseases and produce mudholes that require repair of the orchard floor.
At Keaau, normal rainfall is adequate without irrigation, and the volcanic soil provides good drainage. However, short droughts and occasional flooding have occurred. At
Ka'u, located on the drier side of the island, the rainfall averages substantially less than at Keaau, particularly at the lower elevations. Approximately 652 acres at the lower elevations of Ka'u are irrigated to provide for additional water when required. At Mauna Kea, normal rainfall is adequate without irrigation and the volcanic soil provides adequate drainage.
Original Orchards The Partnership acquired certain interests in 2,423 tree acres comprising the Original Orchards in June 1986 from Mauna Loa and one of its affiliates. The interests owned by the Partnership with respect to the Original Orchards consist of (i) a fee simple ownership interest in the trees and the underlying land with respect to approximately 1,923 tree acres of macadamia orchards properties and (ii) an ownership interest in the trees and a leasehold interest in the underlying land (with a lease term expiring at the end of 2019) with respect to approximately 500 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties comprising the Original Orchards.
Of the approximately 1,923 tree acres at the Original Orchards owned in fee by the Partnership, roughly 456 tree acres (about 579 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties are located in the Ka'u area of the island of Hawaii and roughly 1,467 tree acres (about 1,688 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties are located in the Keaau area of the island. The other orchards comprising the Original Orchards, which consist of roughly 500 tree acres (about 700 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties, are located in the Ka'u area of the island. The Partnership's leasehold interest with respect to the land underlying such latter orchards consist of an assignment from Mauna Loa of its rights and obligations as lessee under a lease agreement which terminates at the end of 2019. Such lease agreement provides for (i) a $10,500 minimum annual lease payment subject to increase based upon increases in the price per pound of macadamia nuts sold in Hawaii for the first 25 years of the lease (through 1999) and (ii) a lease payment to be mutually agreed upon by the lessor and the lessee for the remaining 20 years of the lease.
At the time of the conveyance of the Original Orchards to the Partnership, Mauna Loa and KACI reserved the water rights to the land underlying the Original Orchards. To supply water to that portion of the Original Orchards located at Ka'u which had been irrigated historically, KACI and the Partnership entered into a water agreement whereby KACI agreed to supply water to the Partnership from a well which is on property retained by KACI, to irrigate this property. The water agreement has been amended to provide for water to be supplied for irrigation purposes to the portion of the New Ka'u Orchards which have historically been irrigated.
December 1986 Orchards The interests owned by the Partnership with respect to the December 1986 Orchards consist of an ownership interest in the trees and a leasehold interest in the underlying land (with a lease term expiring at the end of 2019) with respect to roughly 266 tree acres (about 546 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties.
With respect to the December 1986 Orchards, the Partnership entered into a lease agreement with KACI which expires in 2019. The lease provides for an annual base lease payment of $5,586 which is subject to adjustment based on increases in the USDA reported price per pound from macadamia nuts in the State of Hawaii. In addition, the lease requires the Partnership to pay KACI 100% of any year's cash flow in excess of a target level of $507,000 for such year for such orchards until the aggregate amount paid equals 150% of the aggregate amount of the stabilization payments previously received by the Partnership. Thereafter, the Partnership is required, with respect to any year prior to the expiration of the lease, to pay KACI as additional rent, 50% of the cash flow generated by such orchards for such year in excess of a target level of $507,000 of cash flow.
New Orchards The New Orchards consist of the New Ka'u Orchards, the New Mauna Kea Orchards and the New Keaau Orchards. The interests acquired by the Partnership with respect to the New Ka'u Orchards consist of (i) an ownership interest in the trees and a lease of an undivided interest in the underlying land with respect to about 327 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties (the "New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest") and (ii) leasehold interests in both the trees and the underlying land (with remaining lease terms varying from 7 years to 39 years, subject to extension with respect to certain leases) with respect to about 387 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties (the "New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest"). The interests acquired by the Partnership with respect to the New Mauna Kea Orchards consist of an ownership interest in the trees and a lease of an undivided interest in the underlying land with respect to about 326 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties (the "New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest"). The interest acquired by the Partnership with respect to the New Keaau Orchards consists of fee simple ownership interests in both the trees and the underlying land with respect to about 220 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties.
New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest. With regard to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest, the Partnership acquired title to the trees situated on roughly 327 tree acres (about 528 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties but title to the land underlying such trees was retained by KACI. At the time of the conveyance of the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest to the Partnership, all of the rights under an existing 45-year farming lease (the "New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease") were assigned to the Partnership. The New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease provides for the lease of an undivided interest in the land underlying the trees to which the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest relates which will permit the Partnership to conduct macadamia nut farming operations on the 327 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties.
Through such arrangements, the Partnership is entitled to farm, and harvest macadamia nuts from, such 327 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties. The New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease provides for a minimum annual lease payment of $32,702 which will be subject to increase after 10, 20 and 30 years based on then current fair market lease rates. The fair market lease rate will be determined by mutual agreement
between the Partnership and Ka'u Agribusiness or, if mutual agreement cannot be reached, as determined by appraisal. Whether determined by mutual agreement or appraisal, the fair market lease rate will be determined as a fair market lease rate for use of such property as macadamia orchards.
In addition to the minimum annual lease payment amount, the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease requires the Partnership to pay various expenses with respect to the leased premises as well as an additional rental payment at a variable rate based on increases in the market price per pound of macadamia nuts. The variable rate for each of the first 10 years of such lease will equal $467 for every one cent ($0.01) by which the average annual market price of macadamia nuts exceeds seventy cents ($0.70) per pound, which rate will be subject to adjustment in the same manner as, and concurrently with, the adjustment of the minimum annual lease payment as described above.
The Partnership acquired the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest subject to a repurchase option held by KACI. Such repurchase option grants KACI the continuing right to repurchase all or any portion of the trees relating to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest, at any time after June 30, 2019 at a price equal to the then current fair market value of such trees. The fair market value of such trees at such time will be determined by mutual agreement between the Partnership and KACI or, if mutual agreement cannot be reached, as determined by appraisal. Whether determined by mutual agreement or appraisal, the fair market value of such trees will be determined according to their value as producing macadamia nut trees, assuming that the owner thereof has rights to farm and harvest such trees and has ongoing arrangements with respect to land leases, farming and nut purchases of the same type as the Partnership has immediately prior to such time.
In the event that KACI exercises such repurchase option prior to the expiration of the term of the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease, such farming lease will terminate at the time of such exercise with respect to the land underlying the trees so purchased. If such repurchase option is not exercised and KACI does not offer to extend the terms of the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Leases past their June 30, 2034 expiration dates for a period five years at the then current fair market lease rate, KACI will be obligated to repurchase the trees relating to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest at their then current fair market value. The then current fair market lease rate and the then current market value of the trees will be determined by mutual agreement between the Partnership and KACI or, if mutual agreement can not be obtained, by appraisal in each case in the manner described above.
In the event that KACI offers to extend the terms of the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease past their June 30, 2034 expiration dates for a period of five years at the then current fair market value lease rates and the Partnership does not accept such offer (or does not assign the lease to a third party who elects to accept such offer), the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease will terminate at the end of its stated term on June 30, 2034 and the Partnership thereafter will not be entitled to farm or harvest the trees relating to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest, KACI will not be required to repurchase such trees
from the Partnership and ownership of such trees will revert back to KACI. If the offer to extend the term of the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease is accepted, the procedure specified above relating to the termination of the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease will apply with respect to the expiration of the term of the extension of such lease, as well as to the expiration of any other extensions of such lease, until the Partnership has leased such property for an aggregate of 99 years (including the initial 45-year term) at which time such procedure will not be required to be followed and the New Ka'u Orchards Farming lease will terminate. Upon the expiration of the final extension of such lease, the Partnership thereafter will have no rights to farm or harvest the trees relating to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest, KACI will not be required to repurchase such trees from the Partnership and ownership of such trees will revert back to KACI.
The Partnership shall have the right pursuant to the terms of the New Ka'u Orchards Farming Lease to assign its interest in the lease and any extensions thereof to a third party in the event of a sale or transfer of the trees relating to the Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest, provided that KACI consents to such assignment, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest. With regard to the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest, the Partnership acquired all leasehold interest with respect to both the trees and the underlying land relating to approximately 387 tree acres (or approximately 896 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties within the New Ka'u Orchards. The leasehold interests in the New Ka'u Orchards consist of an assignment from Mauna Loa and KACI of the entire interest in a portion of their respective leasehold interests and an undivided interest in the remainder of their respective leasehold interests under various lease agreements.
Through such arrangements, the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest entitles the Partnership to farm, and harvest macadamia nuts from, the approximately 387 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties to which the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest relates for the remaining terms of the underlying lease agreements to which Mauna Loa and KACI are parties. Following the assignment, the Partnership is required to make lease payments to Mauna Loa and KACI with respect to the proportionate amount of lease payment required to be made by such entities under such lease agreement with respect to such 387 tree acres. The following table sets forth with respect to each such lease agreement the number of the tree acres comprising the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest subject to such lease agreement, the expiration date of the lease term and the proportionate amount of rent under such lease agreement required to be paid by the Partnership.
(1) In addition to the minimum annual lease payment amount, each of the leases which comprise the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold interest also require the Partnership to pay a proportionate amount of the various expenses with respect to the leased premises as well as an additional rental payment at a variable rate tied to increases in the market price per pound of macadamia nuts. The minimum annual lease payment amounts with respect to the leases expiring in 2028 and 2029 are subject to periodic increases based on the mutual agreement of lessor and lessee in 1998 and 1999, respectively, and on each tenth anniversary thereafter or, if mutual agreement cannot be reached, as determined by appraisal. With respect to the leases expiring in 1995 and 1999, if such leases are renewed following a subdivision of such property, the minimum annual lease payment amounts will be subject to periodic increases based on the mutual agreement of the lessor and lessee after 2000 and each tenth anniversary thereafter or, if mutual agreement cannot be reached, as determined by appraisal.
(2) The lease terms provide for renewal options of 36 years and 32 years for the 1995 leases and the 1999 lease, respectively, subject to completion of a preliminary County subdivision approval of such lease property prior to July 1, 1992. Mauna Loa and the Agribusiness Companies (KACI and MKACI) met this deadline and received final subdivision approval in January 1995. The lessor is now completing the documentation for the lease renewal.
New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest. With regard to the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest, the Partnership acquired title to the trees situated on roughly 326 tree acres (about 584 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties but title to the land underlying such trees was retained by MKACI. At the time of the conveyance of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest to the Partnership, the Partnership was assigned all rights under two 45-year farming leases (the "New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases"). The New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases collectively provide for the lease of an undivided interest in the land underlying the trees to which the New Mauna Kea Tree Interest relates which will permit the Partnership to conduct macadamia nut farming operations on the New Mauna Kea Orchards.
Through such arrangements, the Partnership is entitled to farm, and harvest macadamia nuts from, such 326 tree acres of macadamia orchard properties. The New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases require a combined minimum annual lease payment of approximately $32,612 which will be subject to increase after 10, 20, 30 and 40 years based on then current fair market lease rates. The fair market lease rate is determined by mutual agreement between the Partnership and MKACI or, if mutual agreement cannot be obtained, as determined by appraisal. Whether determined by mutual agreement or appraisal, the fair market lease rate is determined as a fair market lease rate for use of such property as macadamia orchards.
In addition to the minimum annual lease payment amount, the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases require the Partnership to pay various expenses with respect to the leased premises as well as an additional rental payment at a variable rate
based on increases in the market price per pound of macadamia nuts. The variable rate for each of the first 10 years of such lease will equal $465 for every one cent ($0.01) by which the average annual market price of macadamia nuts exceeds seventy cents ($0.70) per pound, which rate will be subject to adjustment in the same manner as, and concurrently with, the adjustment of the minimum annual lease payment as described above.
The Partnership acquired the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest subject to a repurchase option held by MKACI. Such repurchase option, which is similar to the one provided with respect to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest, grants MKACI the continuing right to repurchase all or any portion of the trees relating to the New Mauna Kea Orchards at any time after June 30, 2019 at a price equal to the then current fair market value of such trees. The fair market value of such trees at such time will be determined by the appraised value of such trees assigned to them by mutual agreement between the Partnership and MKACI or, if mutual agreement cannot be reached, as determined by appraisal. Whether determined by mutual agreement or appraisal, the fair market value of such trees will be determined according to their value as producing macadamia nut trees, assuming that the owner thereof has rights to farm and harvest such trees and has ongoing arrangements with respect to land leases, farming and nut purchases of the same type as the Partnership has immediately prior to such time.
In the event that MKACI exercises such repurchase option prior to the expiration of the terms of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases, such farming leases will terminate at the time of such exercise with respect to the land underlying the trees so purchased. If such repurchase option is not exercised and MKACI does not offer to extend the terms of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases past their June 30, 2034 expiration dates for a period of five years at the then current fair market lease rate, MKACI will be obligated to repurchase the trees relating to the New Mauna Kea Orchards at their then current fair market value. The then current fair market lease rate and the then current market value of the trees will be determined by mutual agreement between the Partnership and MKACI or, if mutual agreement cannot be obtained, by appraisal, in each case in the manner described above.
In the event that MKACI offers to extend the terms of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases past their June 30, 2034 expiration dates for a period of five years at then current fair market lease rates and the Partnership does not accept such offer (or does not assign the lease to a third party who elects to accept such offer), the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases will terminate at the end of their stated terms on June 30, 2034 and the Partnership thereafter will not be entitled to farm or harvest the trees relating to the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest, MKACI will not be required to repurchase such trees from the Partnership and ownership of such trees will revert back to MKACI. If the offer to extend the terms of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Lease is accepted, the procedure specified above relating to the termination of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases will apply with respect to the expiration of the term of the extension of such leases, as well as to the expiration of any other extensions of such leases, until the Partnership has leased such property for an aggregate of 99 years (including the initial 45-year terms), at which time such procedure
will not be required to be followed and the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases will terminate. Upon the expiration of the final extension of such leases, the Partnership thereafter will have no rights to farm or harvest the trees relating to the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest, MKACI will not be required to repurchase such trees from the Partnership and ownership of such trees will revert back to MKACI.
The Partnership has the right pursuant to the terms of the New Mauna Kea Orchards Farming Leases to assign its interests in such leases and any extensions thereof to a third party in the event of a sale or transfer of the trees relating to the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest, provided that MKACI consents to such assignment, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
New Keaau Orchards Interest. With regard to the New Keaau Orchards, the Partnership has acquired a fee simple ownership interest in both the trees and the underlying land with respect to roughly 220 tree acres (about 251 gross acres) of macadamia orchard properties.
Certain Information Regarding Leases. The 1,040 tree acres comprising the New Ka'u Orchards and the New Mauna Kea Orchards are situated on approximately 2,008 actual acres of land. Such 2,008 acres of land are located on larger tracts of land which cover an aggregate of approximately 11,104 acres. Under a Hawaii county subdivision ordinance, in order to transfer or lease a discrete portion of a tract if the entire tract is not being transferred or leased, certain government approvals must be obtained. Because such approvals were not obtained prior to the consummation of the acquisition of the New Orchards in 1989 with respect to the transfer to the Partnership of leasehold interests relating to only a portion of such tracts containing the New Ka'u Orchards and the New Mauna Kea Orchards, the Partnership acquired (i) a lease of an undivided interest in the larger tracts of land within which the property relating to the New Ka'u Orchards Tree Interest and the New Mauna Kea Orchards Tree Interest are located, (ii) an undivided interest in the entire leasehold estate relating to the larger tracts of land within which a portion of the property relating to the New Ka'u Orchard Interest is located and (iii) the entire leasehold estate of the remaining portion of the property relating to the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest. The acquisition of such interests by the Partnership did not require any government approvals. Mauna Loa and the Agribusiness Companies agreed that they would use all reasonable efforts to obtain preliminary County subdivision approval for the larger tracts of land prior to July 1, 1992. Mauna Loa and the Agribusiness Companies met this deadline and received final subdivision approval in January 1995. Upon obtaining all necessary approvals to partition such larger tracts, the Partnership will be required to revest in Mauna Loa and the Agribusiness Companies the Partnership's undivided leasehold interest in the 9,096 additional acres not related to the land upon which the New Ka'u Orchards and the New Mauna Kea Orchards are located, at which time the Partnership's undivided leasehold interest in the remaining portions of such larger tracts will be converted to a leasehold interest of the entirety of such remaining portions. That work is proceeding.
Prior to the partitioning of the larger tracts of land referred to above, the Partnership will have an undivided interest in each such tract and Mauna Loa, the Agribusiness Companies and another subsidiary of C. Brewer also will have undivided ownership or leasehold interest in such tracts. Under Hawaii law, each party who has an undivided leasehold interest in a tract of land generally has the right to use the entire tract absent an agreement to the contrary. Each such party has entered into agreements which provide that each party will only have the right to use the portion of each such tract specifically designated for use by such party. By an assignment made to the Partnership, the Partnership has the exclusive right under such agreements to use the property upon which the New Ka'u Orchards and the New Mauna Kea Orchards are located but has no right to use the 9,096 additional acres covered by the Partnership's undivided leasehold interests, except as may be necessary for access and utility purposes. Correspondingly, Mauna Loa and the Agribusiness Companies have the exclusive right under such agreements to use such 9,096 acres, except as may be necessary for access and utility purposes. Such agreements will remain in effect until such larger tracts are partitioned.
Although the Managing Partner is aware that the practice of conveying an undivided interest in a tract of land coupled with a similar exclusive-use agreement among cotenants of such tract has been used in the County of Hawaii in other transactions, there exists a possibility that, under certain circumstances, such type of arrangement could violate a county subdivision ordinance. If such a violation existed, the Partnership may be subject to certain monetary penalties. Also, in the event of a future dispute among the Partnership, Mauna Loa, and the Agribusiness Companies and another subsidiary of C. Brewer concerning enforcement of the exclusive-use agreements, there is the possibility that the agreements may be unenforceable against a defense that the agreements violate such ordinance. Mauna Loa and the Agribusiness Companies have agreed to defend and indemnify the Partnership against all claims, costs, expenses, losses (including losses of profits) and liabilities relating to or arising out of (i) any violation of the county subdivision ordinance, (ii) the unenforceability of the exclusive-use agreements and (iii) any failure of such entities to subdivide the property on which the New Ka'u Orchards and the New Mauna Kea Orchards are located.
As provided in certain agreements among Mauna Loa, KACI and the lessors of a portion of the property to which the Ka'u Orchards interest relates, prior to the partitioning of the larger tracts of land, Mauna Loa and KACI will remain liable for the payment of rent and the performance of other obligations under lease agreements between such entities as lessees and such third-party lessors covering the property to which the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest relates as well as the Partnership will be required to make lease payments to such entities equal to the proportionate amount of the lease payments required to be made by such entities under such lease agreements with respect to the property to which the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest relates. In the event that Mauna Loa and KACI default on their obligations under such lease agreements, the Partnership will be required to pay rent and perform the other obligations of such entities under the lease agreements with respect to such 7,634 acres if the Partnership desires to continue its leasehold interest with respect to the property
to which the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest relates. If the Partnership makes such payments with respect to such 7,634 acres, the Partnership will also have the right to use such property to the same extent as if the Partnership were the sole lessee under such lease agreements until such time as Mauna Loa and KACI cure any such default. The Proportionate rent with respect to such 7,634 acres is approximately $112,700 per year. The covenants with respect to such acreage include the obligations to pay ad valorem taxes, perform surveys, build fences and submit reports. The costs to perform these obligations may vary substantially from year to year. The lease agreements between Mauna Loa, KACI and the lessors of such acreage provide that at the time of the subdivision of the property covered thereby, such lessors will enter into a new lease agreement which will relate specifically to the property to which the New Ka'u Orchards Leasehold Interest relates. Such lease agreement will provide the Partnership with a 100% leasehold interest in such property and will have terms similar to those contained in the lease agreements for the 11,104 acres except that the lease payment obligations will be proportionate to the number of acres covered thereby, which amounts will be the same as the Partnership will be obligated to pay prior to such subdivision.
ITEM 3.