Item 2 and Note 4 to the Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Impact of Year 2000 - ------------------- The General Partner and John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, the General Partner's ultimate parent (together, John Hancock) along with the Partnership, have developed a plan to modify or replace significant portions of the Partnership's computer information and automated technologies so that its systems will function properly with respect to the dates in the year 2000 and thereafter. The Partnership presently believes that with modifications to existing systems and conversions to new technologies, the year 2000 will not pose significant operational problems for its computer systems. However, if certain modifications and conversions are not made, or are not completed timely, the year 2000 issue could have an adverse impact on the operations of the Partnership.
John Hancock as early as 1994 had begun assessing, modifying and converting the software related to its significant systems and has initiated formal communications with its significant business partners and customers to determine the extent to which John Hancock's interface systems are vulnerable to those third parties' failure to remediate their own year 2000 issues. While John Hancock is developing alternative third party processing arrangements as it deems appropriate, there is no guarantee that the systems of other companies on which the Partnership's systems rely will be converted timely or will not have an adverse effect on the Partnership's systems.
The Partnership expects the project to be substantially complete by early 1999. This completion target was derived utilizing numerous assumptions of future events, including availability of certain resources and other factors. However, there can be no guarantee that this completion target will be achieved.
Forward-looking Statements - -------------------------- In addition to historical information, certain statements contained herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include statements regarding the intent, belief or expectations of the General Partner with respect to, among other things, the prospective sale of Partnership properties, actions that would be taken in the event of lack of liquidity, unanticipated leasing costs, repair and maintenance expenses, distributions to the General Partner and to Investors, the possible effects of tenants vacating space at Partnership properties, the absorption of existing retail space in certain geographical areas, and the impact of inflation.
Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Forward-looking Statements (continued) - -------------------------------------- Forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties, and they are not guarantees of future performance. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results or performance of the Partnership and future events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements: general economic and business conditions; any and all general risks of real estate ownership, including without limitation adverse changes in general economic conditions and adverse local conditions, the fluctuation of rental income from properties, changes in property taxes, utility costs or maintenance costs and insurance, fluctuations of real estate values, competition for tenants, uncertainties about whether real estate sales under contract will close; the ability of the Partnership to sell its properties; and other factors detailed from time to time in the filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect the General Partner's analysis only as of the date hereof. The Partnership assumes no obligation to update forward- looking statements. See also the Partnership's reports to be filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Liquidity and Capital Resources - ------------------------------- At December 31, 1997, the Partnership had $2,502,844 in cash and cash equivalents and $58,400 in restricted cash. The Partnership's cash and cash equivalents increased by $304,997 from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997. This increase is due to retaining a portion of the net sales proceeds from the 1300 North Dutton Avenue property and is partially offset by the payment of leasing costs at its properties, as described below.
The Partnership has established a working capital reserve with a current balance of approximately 4.5% of the offering proceeds. The General Partner anticipates that such amount should be sufficient to satisfy the Partnership's general liquidity requirements. Liquidity would, however, be materially adversely affected by a significant reduction in revenues or significant unanticipated operating costs or unanticipated capital expenditures. If any or all of these events were to occur, to the extent that working capital reserves would be insufficient to satisfy the cash requirements of the Partnership, it is anticipated that additional funds would be obtained through a further reduction of cash distributions to Investors, bank loans, short-term loans from the General Partner or its affiliates or the sale or financing of Partnership properties.
During 1997, cash from working capital reserves in the aggregate amount of $224,098 was used for the payment of leasing costs incurred at the Carnegie Center, Marlboro Square, Crossroads Square, and Warner Plaza properties. The General Partner estimates that the Partnership will incur approximately $389,000 of leasing costs at its properties during 1998. The General Partner anticipates that the current balance in the working capital reserve should be sufficient to pay such costs.
<>PAGE> Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) - ------------------------------------------- During the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, approximately $115,000 and $75,000, respectively, of cash from operations was used to fund non- recurring maintenance and repair expenses incurred at the Partnership's properties. The General Partner estimates that the Partnership will incur approximately $250,000 of non-recurring maintenance and repair expenses at its properties during 1998. These expenses will be funded from the operations of the Partnership's properties and are not expected to have a significant impact on the Partnership's liquidity.
The Partnership has incurred approximately $239,000 in legal expenses in connection with the class action lawsuit (see Part II, Item 1 of this Report). Of this amount, approximately $143,000 relates to the Partnership's own defense and approximately $96,000 relates to the indemnification of the General Partner and its Affiliates for their defense. At the present time, the General Partner cannot estimate the aggregate amount of legal expenses and indemnification claims to be incurred and their impact on the Partnership's future operations. Liquidity would, however, be materially adversely affected by a significant increase in such legal expenses and related indemnification costs. If such increases were to occur, to the extent that cash from operations and the working capital reserve would be insufficient to satisfy the cash requirements of the Partnership, it is anticipated that additional funds would be obtained through a reduction of cash distributions to Investors, bank loans, short-term loans from the General Partner or its Affiliates, or the sale or financing of Partnership properties.
Cash in the aggregate amount of $4,210,949 was distributed to the Partners during 1997. Of this amount, $2,084,739 was generated from Distributable Cash from Operations, and $2,126,210 was generated from Distributable Cash from Sales or Financings. These amounts were distributed in accordance with the Partnership Agreement and were allocated as follows:
From Distributable From Distributable Cash From Cash From Operations Sales or Financings ---------- ------------------- Investors $2,063,891 $1,832,940 John Hancock Limited Partner - 293,270 General Partner 20,848 - ---------- ----------- Total $2,084,739 $2,126,210 ========== ==========
The amount distributed to Investors from Distributable Cash from Operations during 1997 represented a 5% annualized return on Investors' Invested Capital.
<>PAGE> Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) - ------------------------------------------- The following table summarizes the leasing activity and occupancy status at the Partnership's properties during 1997:
(1) Includes leases terminated by the General Partner for non-payment of rent.
A tenant at the Marlboro Square property that had taken occupancy of the property's 3,000 square foot outparcel in October 1996 did not make rental payments due beginning in December 1996. As a result, the General Partner terminated the tenant's lease effective February 28, 1997. On July 15, 1997, the General Partner reached a settlement agreement with the former tenant whereby the Partnership agreed to release the former tenant from all past due and future rental obligations in exchange for a one-time payment of $16,000, which amount has been received. The General Partner continues to seek a replacement tenant for this space.
Effective November 1996, the amount of space occupied by the anchor tenant at the Marlboro Square property declined from approximately 38% of the property to approximately 28% of the property, in accordance with the terms of its lease. Also during 1996, an existing tenant at Marlboro Square whose lease was scheduled to expire during November 1996, expanded the space it occupies at the property from 8% to 15%. However, due to declining market conditions in the area where the property is located, the current rental rate paid by the tenant per square foot is 53% lower than its previous rental rate.
Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) - ------------------------------------------- At December 31, 1997, Marlboro Square's occupancy was 67%. Effective January, 1998, a new tenant took occupancy of 6,600 square feet, or 16% of the property under a lease that will expire in January 1999, at which time the tenant will have the option to renew its lease for a five-year term. Approximately $20,000 in leasing costs will be incurred in connection with this new lease.
During 1998, a lease representing 3,000 square feet, or 7% of the property, is scheduled to expire. In addition, a tenant with a lease for approximately 1,600 square feet, or 4% of the property, is delinquent in rental payments due since February 1998 and the General Partner understands that the tenant intends to vacate its space at the property. The General Partner will use all legal remedies to obtain collection from this tenant of all obligations due under its lease agreement.
The General Partner anticipates that absorption of available retail space in the Marlboro, Massachusetts area will remain sluggish during 1998 based upon both the lack of demand and the amount of available retail space in the area. The General Partner will continue to offer competitive rental rates and concessions in an effort to retain existing tenants as well as to lease the remaining vacant space at the property.
During 1997, the General Partner secured leases with four new tenants to occupy, in the aggregate, approximately 14,900 square feet, or 12%, of the Carnegie Center property. In addition, the General Partner secured lease renewals/extensions with two existing tenants at the property. The first tenant, occupying approximately 19,500 square feet, or 15% of the property, and whose lease was scheduled to expire in August 1998, extended the term of its lease through July 2004. The General Partner also secured a lease renewal with a tenant occupying approximately 3,600 square feet, or 3% of the property, and whose lease was scheduled to expire in June 1997, through June 2000. The Partnership incurred approximately $125,000 in leasing costs in connection with these new and renewal lease transactions. One tenant at this property who occupied approximately 2,900 square feet of space under a lease that was scheduled to expire in May 1999 was evicted from the property for non-payment of rent. The General Partner reached a settlement agreement with this tenant whereby the tenant agreed to pay approximately $2,800 in exchange for the General Partner terminating its lease at the property. The General Partner is seeking a replacement tenant to occupy this space.
At December 31, 1997, the Carnegie Center was 73% occupied. During 1998, four leases representing approximately 19,500 square feet, or 17% of the property are scheduled to expire. The Cincinnati industrial real estate market, where the Carnegie Center is located, has an oversupply of office/industrial space, which has resulted in a decline in rental rates and an increase in vacancy rates. Because of these current market conditions, rental rates and concessions will be priced aggressively in an effort to retain existing tenants as well as secure new tenants at the property.
Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) - ------------------------------------------- During the second quarter of 1997, the anchor tenant at the Crossroads Square property that occupies 49% of the property under a lease scheduled to expire in August 2010 informed the General Partner of its intention to vacate its space during the second half of 1998. As a result, the General Partner has commenced efforts to find a replacement tenant for the space. The General Partner does not believe that this situation will have a materially adverse effect on the Partnership's liquidity.
One tenant at the Crossroads Square property has a clause in its lease that may be exercisable if the anchor tenant described above ceases to operate at the property and a replacement tenant is not secured. Such clause provides that the tenant may i) reduce rental payments to the lesser of the fixed monthly rent or 2% of gross receipts if the anchor ceases to operate for 180 days, and ii) terminate lease obligations if the cessation of operations continues for an additional six months and a substitute tenant has not been provided. This tenant occupies approximately 10,500 square feet, of 6% of the property, under a lease that is scheduled to expire in July 2005. The General Partner does not believe that any reduction in rental payments or any possible lease termination that may result from the anchor tenant vacating the property will have a materially adverse affect on the Partnership's liquidity.
A tenant at the Crossroads Square property with a lease for approximately 12,500 square feet, or 7% of the property, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in March 1996. Prior to filing for protection, this tenant discontinued satisfying its rental obligations and subsequently requested a reduction in its rental payments through the end of its lease, which is scheduled to expire in October 2003. Given the then existing favorable real estate market conditions in the area where Crossroads Square is located at that time, the General Partner did not agree to a reduced rental amount. On March 11, 1997 the bankruptcy court ordered that the tenant assume the lease at the property. The tenant is current on all its rental obligations as of the date hereof.
During August 1996, a tenant at the Warner Plaza property that occupied 14% of the rentable space at the property vacated its space prior to its lease expiration. Under the terms of its lease agreement, the tenant is obligated to pay both base rent and percentage rent, which is based on the tenant's sales at the property. The Partnership continues to receive the minimum rental payments due but percentage rent payments have not been received because the tenant, having vacated its space, has no sales at the property. Under the terms of its lease agreement, the tenant has an option to terminate its lease obligations in April 1999. The General Partner has commenced efforts to find a replacement tenant for this space and negotiate a lease buyout with former tenant. In addition, one tenant at the property that occupied approximately 1,600 square feet, or 2% of the property, had a clause in its lease allowing it to terminate its lease if the tenant described above were to vacate the property. This tenant terminated its lease, which had been scheduled to expire in August 2000, effective February 24, 1997.
Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued) - ------------------------------------------- Another tenant at the Warner Plaza property, with a lease for approximately 6,150 square feet, or 7% of the property, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in June 1997. During May 1997, this tenant discontinued satisfying its rental obligations. On September 16, 1997, the bankruptcy court ordered the tenant to assume the lease at the property and to pay such amounts required to become current on all rental obligations by November 24, 1997. As of the date hereof, the tenant is current on it rental obligations.
During the first quarter of 1997, the General Partner had the Warner Plaza property independently appraised. Based upon the appraiser's investigation and analysis, the property's market value was estimated to be approximately $5,600,000. The carrying value of the Warner Plaza property at December 31, 1997 was evaluated in comparison to its estimated future undiscounted cash flows and the independent appraisal. Based upon such evaluation, the General Partner determined that the property's estimated future undiscounted cash flows were expected to exceed its carrying value and, therefore, a write-down in value was not required at December 31, 1997. The Partnership's cumulative investment in the property, before accumulated depreciation and write-downs, is approximately $7,900,000.
The General Partner evaluated the carrying value of the Marlboro Square property of approximately $1,669,000 at December 31, 1997 in comparison to its estimated future undiscounted cash flows and a recent internal appraisal. Based upon such evaluation, the General Partner determined that the property's estimated future undiscounted cash flows were not expected to exceed its carrying value. Therefore a write-down of $668,520, representing the difference between the property's carrying value and its estimated current market value (and not its estimated future undiscounted cash flows) was required as of December 31, 1997. The Partnership's cumulative investment in the property, before accumulated depreciation and write-downs, is approximately $5,254,000.
The General Partner also evaluated the carrying value of each of the Partnership's other properties as of December 31, 1997 by comparing such value to the respective property's future undiscounted cash flows and the then most recent internal appraisal. Based on such evaluations, the General Partner determined that no impairment in values exist with respect to these properties and no additional write-downs were recorded as of December 31, 1997. The General Partner will continue to conduct property valuations, using internal or independent appraisals, in order to assist in its evaluation of whether a permanent impairment in value exists on any of the Partnership's properties.
Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (continued)
Results of Operations - --------------------- Average occupancy for the Partnership's properties was as follows: Years ended December 31, 1997 1996 1995 ---- ---- ---- 1300 North Dutton Avenue Office Complex N/A 25% 8% Marlboro Square Shopping Center 65% 81% 73% Crossroads Square Shopping Center 95% 93% 94% Carnegie Center Office/Industrial 68% 61% 47% Warner Plaza Shopping Center 99% 100% 99%
Results of Operations - 1997 compared with 1996
Net income for the year ended December 31, 1997 was $636,383 as compared to a net loss of 851,115 in 1996. The 1997 results include a $668,520 write- down of the value of the Marlboro Square property and a $5,321 non- recurring loss resulting from the sale of the 1300 North Dutton Avenue property. Included in the results for 1996 are write-downs in the values of two of the Partnership's properties in the aggregate amount of $1,907,093. Excluding these amounts, net income increased by 23% in 1997 as compared to 1996 due to increases in the performance of the Carnegie Center, Crossroads Square, and 1300 North Dutton Avenue properties. These increases were partially offset by declines in the performance of the Marlboro Square and Warner Plaza properties, and by legal fees incurred in connection with the class action lawsuit (described in Item 3