Item 2.
The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1987, and believes that, commencing with such taxable year, it has been organized and has operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Although the Company believes that it will continue to operate in such a manner, no assurance can be given that the Company will continue to qualify as a REIT. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, among other things, the Company must distribute at least 95% of its real estate investment trust taxable income and meet certain tests regarding the nature of its income and assets. As a REIT, the Company is not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to the stockholders. Additionally, to preserve the Company's status as a REIT, ownership of the capital stock of the Company, actually or constructively, by any single person is limited, by the Company, to 9.8% of the total number of outstanding shares, subject to certain exceptions.
As of March 7, 1997, the Company employed 108 persons. Its executive offices are located at 16955 Via Del Campo, Suite 110, San Diego, California 92127 and its telephone number is (619) 485-9400.
Properties
The Company emphasizes investments in retail properties where a substantial portion of gross leasable area ("GLA") is subject to long-term net leases to national or regional retail tenants. The properties consist of three primary types: (i) multi-tenant retail properties (the "Shopping Centers"); (ii) single tenant net leased retail properties (the "Single Tenant Properties"); and (iii) commercial properties and office buildings (the "Commercial Properties"). At December 31, 1996, the Company owned (i) 42 Shopping Centers which accounted for approximately 67% of the Company's scheduled annualized base rent ("ABR") at December 31, 1996; (ii) 67 Single Tenant Properties which accounted for approximately 32% of the Company's ABR at December 31, 1996; and (iii) 3 Commercial Properties which accounted for approximately 1% of the Company's ABR at December 31, 1996. These 112 properties total approximately 8.2 million square feet of GLA, of which the Shopping Centers, Single Tenant Properties, and Commercial Properties comprise approximately 65%, 34%, and 1%, respectively. Additionally, the Company has one property held for disposition related to an undeveloped shopping mall in Arizona.
Strategy and Philosophy
The following is a brief discussion of the Company's current strategies and policies concerning acquisitions, management, dispositions, investments, finances and operations, and certain support practices. The
Company may, however, from time to time, alter or change one or more of these strategies or its policies in these areas. There can be no assurance that the Company's strategies will be successful.
The Company's primary objective is to acquire, own and manage a portfolio of commercial retail properties that will provide cash for quarterly distributions to stockholders while protecting investor capital and providing potential for capital appreciation. The Company seeks to achieve this objective by (i) aggressively managing its 112 existing operating properties, (ii) continuing to acquire well-located neighborhood and community shopping centers with tenants that have a national or regional presence and an established credit quality, (iii) disposing of mature properties to continually update its core property portfolio, and (iv) continuing to maintain a strong and flexible financial position to facilitate growth.
Aggressive Management - The Company aggressively manages its properties, with an emphasis on maintaining high occupancy rates and a strong base of nationally recognized anchor tenants. In addition, the Company emphasizes monitoring of the physical condition of the properties and the financial condition of the tenants. The Company follows a schedule of regular physical maintenance with a view toward tenant expansion, renovations and refurbishing to preserve and increase the value of its properties.
In addition to the employees at the Company's San Diego, California headquarters, the Company employs approximately 16 property management personnel at its seven field offices in Phoenix, Arizona; Orlando, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; Lexington, Kentucky; Raleigh, North Carolina; Chattanooga, Tennessee; and Salt Lake City, Utah. Each of the Company's field offices is responsible for managing the leasing, property management and maintenance of the Company's properties in its region. The Company also employs a team of approximately eight people at its Salt Lake City, Utah office whose efforts are dedicated solely to acquisitions and dispositions of the Company's properties.
Over time, the Company will seek to increase cash flow and portfolio value primarily through contractual rent increases during the terms of its leases, reletting of existing space at higher rents, expansion of existing properties and the minimization of overhead and operating costs.
Acquisition of Properties - The Company intends to continue its portfolio focus on retail properties with predictable cash flow and growth potential. The Company seeks to expand its portfolio by acquiring well-located neighborhood and community shopping centers and other retail properties with tenants that have a national or regional presence and an established credit quality and that the Company believes will have the ability to make timely lease payments over the term of the lease. When acquiring properties, however, primary emphasis is placed on the quality of the location and comparable market rents as opposed to a particular tenant. The Company intends to continue to concentrate its property acquisitions in the southwestern and southeastern United States, where a majority of its current properties are located. Management believes that such emphasis will allow the Company to utilize its current property management and maintenance personnel in these areas. The Company may, however, acquire properties in other areas of the United States. Additionally, the Company intends to continue to evaluate its property type mix and may purchase from time to time other properties that the Company believes will meet its objectives.
Acquisitions through Partnerships - The Company may from time to time enter into joint venture partnership arrangements with certain entities for the purchase and management of properties. The Company may also from time to time acquire properties from unaffiliated property owners by forming partnerships and exchanging limited partnership units in such partnerships for the property owners' equity in the acquired properties. Such partnership units are generally exchangeable for shares of the Company's common stock under certain circumstances. The Company believes that this acquisition method may permit the Company to acquire properties at attractive prices from property owners wishing to enter into tax deferred transactions. In 1995, Excel Realty Partners, L.P. ("ERP"), a Delaware limited partnership, was formed to facilitate these transactions.
Joint Venture Development - The Company may from time to time finance properties under development, provided that the developer of each such property has previously obtained all necessary entitlements allowing completion of the property and has identified anchor tenants. Under this financing method, the Company purchases the undeveloped property and leases such property back to the developer or makes a subordinated loan to the developer, and upon completion, the Company has the option to purchase the development. In 1996, the Company loaned $12.3 million to a joint venture partnership under a loan commitment related to a development retail project in Orlando, Florida, and in 1997, an additional $5.3 was advanced. In January 1997, the joint venture obtained a construction loan and $9.0 million was repaid to the Company. The Company has agreed to guarantee $30 million of the construction loan which is expected to total $80 million.
Disposition of Properties - The Company continually analyzes each asset in its portfolio and identifies those properties which can be sold or exchanged (to the extent consistent with REIT qualification requirements) for optimal sales prices (or exchange values) given prevailing market conditions and the particular characteristics of each property. Through this strategy, the Company seeks to continually update its core property portfolio by disposing of properties which have limited appreciation potential and redeploy capital into newer properties or properties where its aggressive management techniques may maximize property values. The Company engages from time to time in like-kind property exchanges (i.e., Code Section 1031 exchanges) which allow the Company to dispose of properties and redeploy proceeds in a tax efficient manner.
The Company holds its properties for investment and the production of rental income and not for sale to customers or other buyers in the ordinary course of the Company's business. If the Company were treated as holding properties for sale to customers in the ordinary course of its business, it would be subject to tax equal to 100% of its gain from each property sold (with no offset allowed for properties sold at a loss). The Company intends to take appropriate measures before entering into any binding agreement to dispose of an asset to determine that such disposition will not result in the imposition of such tax on the Company.
Financing - The Company intends to finance future acquisitions with the most advantageous sources of capital available to the Company at the time, which may include the sale of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities through public offerings or private placements, the incurrance of additional indebtedness through secured or unsecured borrowings, and the reinvestment of proceeds from the disposition of assets. The Company's financing strategy is to maintain a strong and flexible financial position by (i) maintaining a prudent level of leverage, (ii) maintaining a large pool of unencumbered properties, (iii) managing its variable rate exposure, (iv) amortizing existing mortgages over the term of the leases for such mortgaged properties, and (v) maintaining a conservative distribution payout ratio.
The Company may seek variable rate financing from time to time if such financing appears advantageous in light of then-prevailing market conditions. In such case, the Company will consider hedging against interest rate risk through interest rate protection agreements, interest rate swaps or other means.
Environmental Matters
Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real estate generally is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in, or emanating from, such property, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease a property or to borrow using such real estate as collateral. Other federal and state laws require the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing material in poor condition in the event of remodeling or renovation. Other statutes may require the removal of underground storage tanks that are out of service or out of compliance. Noncompliance with these and other environmental, health or safety requirements may result in the need to cease or alter operations at a property, which could affect the financial reliability of the property.
The Company seeks to protect itself from environmental liabilities associated with properties it acquires in a number of ways. As part of its internal due diligence process, the Company undertakes environmental site assessments prior to purchasing a property. The Company will normally not purchase a property in the event these assessments reveal potential environmental liabilities. The Company may however, evaluate the risks and attempt to quantify the potential costs associated with such liabilities, and then make a determination of whether to acquire the property.
If the Company chooses to acquire the property, it will typically require the prospective seller/tenant to agree to remediate any environmental problems and may obtain a letter of credit or other security to provide adequate assurance to the Company that sufficient funds will be available to complete the work. The Company will continue to obtain environmental reports on all properties it seeks to acquire. Moreover, to protect itself against environmental liabilities that were not discovered during its pre-purchase investigations as well as those that were disclosed, the Company, in the purchase agreement and/or lease, will typically require the seller/tenant to indemnify the Company against any and all environmental liabilities arising from the property acquired.
Substantially all of the Company's properties have been subject to environmental reports (which typically involve inspection without soil sampling or ground water analysis) by independent environmental consultants. The environmental reports have not revealed any material environmental liability and the Company is not aware of any other material environmental liability with respect to any of its properties.
No assurance can be given that the environmental studies performed at the properties would disclose all environmental liabilities thereon, that any prior owner thereof did not create a material environmental condition not known to the Company or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist with respect to any of its properties.
Principal Leases
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") is the Company's largest tenant in terms of both GLA and ABR. Wal-Mart is the nation's largest retailer and operates approximately 2,000 discount department stores and over 400 warehouse clubs. Wal-Mart is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") and, as of December 31, 1996, had credit ratings of AA from Standard and Poor's Corporation ("Standard and Poor's") and Aa2 from Moody's Investor Services, Inc. ("Moody's"). Of the 18 stores which Wal-Mart currently leases from the Company, 12 were less than five years old as of December 31, 1996.
Kmart Corporation ("Kmart") is the Company's second largest tenant in terms of both GLA and ABR. Kmart's principal business is general merchandise retailing through a chain of discount department stores. It is one of the world's largest retailers based on sales volume. Kmart has experienced flat or declining earnings in recent periods, and has announced plans to eliminate a significant number of jobs and close certain of its existing stores. Kmart's credit ratings as of December 31, 1996 were B2 and B+ according to Moody's and Standard and Poor's, respectively. Kmart has closed five single tenant stores that were leased from the Company. The Company negotiated receipt of lease termination fees with respect to all five of these properties, three of which were subsequently sold in 1995 and 1996. The Company is currently in the process of re-leasing or selling the other two properties. Of the 17 stores which Kmart currently leases from the Company, eight were less than five years old as of December 31, 1996. Should Kmart in the future announce additional store closures, the Company believes Kmart would continue its lease payments for the term of the leases unless a lease termination fee is negotiated, and/or the properties would be re-leased at rental rates which would not cause a material loss of revenue for the Company. However, the Company cannot fully predict the effect on the Company of material deterioration in Kmart's financial position.
Wal-Mart and Kmart are publicly traded companies and financial and other information regarding these tenants is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission").
The table below sets forth information concerning the five largest tenants of the Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1996:
Certain leases related to the tenants in the table have either been subleased or the leases relating thereto have been assigned to such party. Nevertheless, the original tenant under the lease remains responsible for payment of all rents and all other obligations due under such lease. An assignment of the lease would not affect the terms of the lease. Generally, all subtenants are currently required to pay the same rent to the tenant as the tenant is required to pay to the Company and have been subleased for a term that is approximately the same as the remaining term of the lease. In the event that the subtenant defaults under the sublease and vacates the property, or in the event that the term of the sublease expires earlier than the term of the lease, the property could remain unoccupied until a new subtenant is located. In any event, the original tenant will remain responsible for payment of all rents and all other obligations due under the lease for the full remaining term of the lease.
Recent Developments
During 1996 the Company issued 4,715,000 shares of Common Stock through two public offerings and in February 1997, the Company issued 4,600,000 shares of 8 1/2% Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. See Item 7 ("Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") for further discussion.
During 1996, the Company purchased seven Shopping Centers for a total purchase price of approximately $93.2 million and sold four Single Tenant Properties for net sales proceeds of $4.7 million. Included in the acquisitions was the purchase of the Valley Fair Mall, a 608,000 square foot shopping center located in West Valley City (Salt Lake City), Utah for approximately $35.0 million in December 1996.
In April 1995, the Company formed ERP to own and manage certain real estate properties. The Company is a 1% partner and the sole general partner of ERP. The Company has initially contributed cash for a 1% equity position in the partnership. The limited partners are entitled to receive annual distributions on their partnership equity (approximately $0.6 million based upon units held at December 31, 1996), after which the Company is entitled to receive 99% of all remaining income and gains before depreciation, if any. Through 1996, twelve real estate properties have been contributed to ERP and at December 31, 1996, ERP had net real estate of approximately $80.0 million.
In April 1995, the Company formed ERT Development Corporation ("EDV"), a Delaware Corporation, of which the Company owns 100% of the outstanding preferred shares. The preferred shares receive 95% of the dividends, if any, from EDV. EDV was formed to acquire, develop, hold, and sell real estate in the short-term
for capital gains and/or receive fee income. At December 31, 1996, the Company had notes receivable outstanding to EDV of $39.8 million to facilitate certain transactions.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating other potential property acquisitions and financing alternatives. The Company intends to continue to emphasize the acquisition of shopping centers and other retail properties under long-term leases to creditworthy national or regional tenants.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
General.
At December 31, 1996, the Company and its subsidiaries owned 112 operating properties in 27 states, principally in the southwestern, midwestern and southeastern United States. Additionally, the Company owns one real estate property located in Arizona which is held for disposition and not included in the schedule on the next page.
Rental revenue and operating expense reimbursements accounted for approximately 83.1% of the Company's total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996. The Company's management believes that the average base rent per square foot of the Company's existing leases are generally lower than the prevailing market rate base rents for new leases in the geographical regions where the Company operates, reflecting the potential for growth as leases renew.
At December 31, 1996, the Company's operating properties consisted of 67 Single Tenant Properties, 42 Shopping Centers and three Commercial Properties. The distribution of the consolidated GLA and scheduled consolidated ABR of the Company and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 is as follows:
The Shopping Centers
At December 31, 1996, the Company and its subsidiaries owned 42 Shopping Centers. The Shopping Centers accounted for approximately 65% of the Company's GLA and approximately 67% of the Company's ABR at December 31, 1996. The Shopping Centers ranged in size from approximately 30,000 to 608,000 square feet. The Company intends to maintain its policy of acquiring shopping centers for long-term investment. The Company maintains an aggressive leasing program to enhance the income potential of each property. It also follows a schedule of regular physical maintenance with a view toward tenant expansion, renovations and refurbishing to preserve and increase the value of its properties. Renovations include upgrading of existing facades, updating signage, resurfacing parking lots and improving parking lot and exterior building lighting.
The majority of the Shopping Centers are anchored by one or more national or regional retailers. The remaining space is generally subject to shorter-term net leases to smaller tenants. A substantial portion of the Company's income from Shopping Centers consists of rent received under long-term leases. Most of these leases provide for payment of fixed base rentals monthly in advance and for the payment by tenants
of their pro-rata share of real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area maintenance of the shopping center. In general, the Company's Shopping Center leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed. However, certain of the tenant leases place that responsibility on the tenant. The Company's standard small store lease provides for roof repairs and exterior repairs to be reimbursed by the tenant as part of the common area maintenance.
The Single Tenant Properties
At December 31, 1996, the Company and its subsidiaries owned 67 Single Tenant Properties under long-term net leases to national or regional tenants. The GLA of these properties ranged in size from approximately 3,000 square feet to 126,000 square feet and accounted for approximately 34% of the Company's total GLA. At December 31, 1996, the Single Tenant Properties accounted for approximately 32% of the Company's ABR. With few exceptions, the tenants are required to pay all operating expenses including roof and structural repairs.
The Commercial Properties
At December 31, 1996, approximately 1% of the total GLA owned by the Company and its subsidiaries was attributable to the 3 Commercial Properties under long-term leases to single tenants or groups of tenants. These properties accounted for approximately 1% of the ABR of the Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and the GLA ranged in size from approximately 8,700 square feet to the 21,560 square foot office building which is the headquarters of the Company.
ITEM 3.