ITEM 2. RISK FACTORS
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K405. In this section, "we" or "us" refers to IRET and "you" refers to IRET's shareholders.
RISKS DUE TO INVESTMENT IN REAL ESTATE
Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend upon the amount of revenues generated and expenses incurred. If properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our results of operations and ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt will be adversely affected. The performance of the economy in each of the areas in which the properties are located affects occupancy, market rental rates and expenses. These factors consequently can have an impact on the revenues from the properties and their underlying values. The financial results of major local employers may also have an impact on the revenues and value of certain properties.
Other factors may further adversely affect revenues from properties. These factors include the general economic climate, local conditions in the areas in which properties are located such as an oversupply of apartment units or a reduction in the demand for apartment units, the attractiveness of the properties to residents, competition from other multi-family communities and commercial properties and our ability to provide adequate facilities maintenance, services and amenities. Our revenues would also be adversely affected if residents were unable to pay rent or we were unable to rent apartments on favorable terms.
If we were unable to promptly relet or renew the leases for a significant number of apartment units, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting were significantly lower than expected rates, then our funds from operations would, and our ability to make expected distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt may, be adversely affected. There is also a risk that as leases on the properties expire, tenants will vacate or enter into new leases on terms that are less favorable to us. Operating costs, including real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, and mortgage payments, if any, do not, in general, decline when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a property. We could sustain a loss as a result of foreclosure on the property, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we were unable to meet our mortgage payments. In addition, applicable laws, including tax laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing also affect revenues from properties and real estate values. DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS MAY NOT BE COMPLETED OR COMPLETED SUCCESSFULLY
IRET is constructing apartment communities in Bismarck, North Dakota, and Rochester, Minnesota. As a general matter, property development and construction projects typically have a higher, and sometimes substantially higher, level of risk than the acquisition of existing properties. There can be no assurance that we will complete development of the properties currently under development or any other development project that we may undertake. Risks associated with our development and construction activities may include the following:
*
development opportunities may be abandoned;
*
construction costs of multifamily apartment communities may exceed original estimates, possibly making the communities uneconomical;
*
occupancy rates and rents at newly completed communities may not be sufficient to make the communities profitable;
*
financing for the construction and development of projects may not be available on favorable terms or at all;
*
construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule; and
*
expenses of operating a completed community may be higher than anticipated.
In addition, development and construction activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically require a substantial portion of management's time and attention. Development and construction activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations.
INVESTMENTS IN NEWLY ACQUIRED PROPERTIES MAY NOT PERFORM IN ACCORDANCE WITH EXPECTATIONS
In the normal course of business, we typically evaluate potential acquisitions, enter into non binding letters of intent, and may, at any time, enter into contracts to acquire and may acquire additional properties. However, no assurance can be given that we will have the financial resources to make suitable acquisitions or that properties that satisfy our investment policies will be available for acquisition. Acquisitions of properties entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations. Such risks may include construction costs exceeding original estimates, possibly making a project uneconomical. Other risks may include financing not being available on favorable terms or at all and construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule. Estimates of the costs of improvements to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property might prove inaccurate. In addition, there are general real estate investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. Although we undertake an evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment before it is acquired, certain defects or necessary repairs may not be detected until after the investment is acquired. This could significantly increase our total acquisition costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and pay amounts due on our debt. ILLIQUIDITY OF REAL ESTATE AND REINVESTMENT RISK MAY REDUCE ECONOMIC RETURNS TO INVESTORS
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, tend to limit our ability to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Additionally, the Code places certain limits on the number of properties a REIT may sell without adverse tax consequences. To effect our current operating strategy, we have in the past raised, and will seek to continue to raise additional funds, both through outside financing and through the orderly disposition of assets which no longer meet our investment criteria. Depending upon interest rates, current development and acquisition opportunities and other factors, generally we will reinvest the proceeds in commercial and multifamily properties, although such funds may be employed in other uses. In the markets we have targeted for future acquisition of commercial and multifamily properties, there is considerable buying competition from other real estate companies, many of whom may have greater resources, experience or expertise than us. In many cases, this competition for acquisition properties has resulted in an increase in property prices and a decrease in property yields. Due to the relatively low capitalization rates currently prevailing in the pricing of potential acquisitions of commercial and multifamily properties which meet our investment criteria, no assurance can be given that the proceeds realized from the disposition of assets which no longer meet our investment criteria can be reinvested to produce economic returns comparable to those being realized from the properties disposed of, or that we will be able to acquire properties meeting our investment criteria. To the extent that we are unable to reinvest proceeds from the assets which no longer meet our investment criteria, or if properties acquired with such proceeds produce a lower rate of return than the properties disposed of, such results may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, a delay in reinvestment of such proceeds may have a material adverse effect on us.
We will seek to structure future dispositions as tax-free exchanges, where appropriate, utilizing the nonrecognition provisions of Section 1031 of the Code to defer income taxation on the disposition of the exchanged property. For an exchange of such properties to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 1031 of the Code, certain technical requirements must be met. Given the competition for properties meeting our investment criteria, it may be difficult for us to identify suitable properties within the foregoing time frames in order to meet the requirements of Section 1031. Even if we can structure a suitable tax-deferred exchange, as noted above, we cannot assure that we will reinvest the proceeds of any of these dispositions to produce economic returns comparable to those currently being realized from the properties which were disposed of. All of the properties currently owned by us are located in developed areas. There are numerous other real estate companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of the properties which will compete with us for tenants and development and acquisition opportunities. The number of competitive properties and real estate companies in such areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our real estate properties and the rents charged and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. The activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt.
GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF PROPERTIES DEPENDENCE ON GREAT PLAINS REGION
Our portfolio is primarily located in the north central states of North and South Dakota, Minnesota and Montana. IRET also has significant investments in Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado, and Texas. Our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other properties and alternative forms of housing. In that regard, certain of these areas have in the recent past experienced economic recessions and depressed conditions in the local real estate markets. To the extent general economic or social conditions in any of these areas deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of the portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt could be materially adversely affected.
INABILITY TO IMPLEMENT GROWTH STRATEGY; POTENTIAL FAILURE TO IDENTIFY, ACQUIRE OR INTEGRATE NEW ACQUISITIONS
Our future growth will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable properties for development and acquisition, complete acquisitions and developments on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired and newly developed properties, and obtain financing to support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth strategy, that growth will continue at historical levels or at all, or that any expansion will improve operating results. The failure to identify, acquire and integrate new properties effectively could have a material adverse affect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt.
A substantial portion of our growth over the last several years has been attributable to acquisitions. We intend to continue to acquire both stabilized commercial and multifamily properties to the extent we identify properties that meet our investment criteria. Acquisitions of new properties entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations. Estimates of the costs of improvements to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property may prove inaccurate. In addition, there are general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment, including unexpected maintenance problems. RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATIONS OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP
IRET's properties are held by IRET Properties, a North Dakota Limited Partnership, which is referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K405 as the "Operating Partnership." We are the sole managing member of the Operating Partnership and, as of April 30, 2000, held approximately an 83% equity interest in the Operating Partnership. The remaining equity interests in the Operating Partnership are held by third parties as non managing members.
The Operating Partnership has contracted with most of these third party Limited Partners not to sell the real estate property contributed by that Limited Partner during his or her lifetime. Such restriction may prevent the sale of such property even though a sale would be advisable.
UNINSURED AND UNDERINSURED LOSSES; LIMITED INSURANCE COVERAGE
We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties with certain policy specifications, limits and deductibles. No assurance can be given that such coverage will be available on acceptable terms or at an acceptable cost, or at all, in the future, or if obtained, that the limits of those policies will cover the full cost of repair or replacement of covered properties. In addition, there may be certain extraordinary losses (such as those resulting from civil unrest) that are not generally insured (or fully insured against) because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured or underinsured loss occur to a property, we could be required to use our own funds for restoration or lose all or part of our investment in, and anticipated revenues from, the property and would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness on the property. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and pay amounts due on our debt.
ADVERSE CHANGES IN LAWS MAY AFFECT OUR POTENTIAL LIABILITY RELATING TO THE PROPERTIES AND OUR OPERATIONS
Increases in real estate taxes and income, service and transfer taxes cannot always be passed through to all tenants in the form of higher rents, and may adversely affect our cash available for distribution and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and pay amounts due on our debt. In addition, future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing may reduce rental revenues or increase operating costs.
POTENTIAL EFFECT ON COSTS AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY FROM COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS BENEFITING DISABLED PERSONS
A number of federal, state and local laws (including the Americans with Disabilities Act) and regulations exist that may require modifications to existing buildings or restrict certain renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons and may require other structural features which add to the cost of buildings under construction. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations may be substantial, and limits or restrictions on construction or completion of certain renovations may limit implementation of our investment strategy in certain instances or reduce overall returns on our investments, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt. We review our properties periodically to determine the level of compliance and, if necessary, take appropriate action to bring such properties into compliance. We believe, based on property reviews to date, that the costs of such compliance should not have a material adverse effect on us. Such conclusions are based upon currently available information and data, and no assurance can be given that further review and analysis of our properties, or future legal interpretations or legislative changes, will not significantly increase the costs of compliance. LIABILITIES ASSUMED MAY EXCEED EXPECTATIONS
We acquire properties either by acquiring title to the properties and related assets (plus assumption of associated contractual obligations of the contributing parties) or by acquiring all of the ownership interests in the partnerships or limited liability companies which held such properties. As a matter of law, we automatically assume all of the liabilities (known, unknown or contingent) of the partnerships and limited liability companies whose ownership interests were acquired by us, potentially including liabilities unrelated to the properties conveyed pursuant to such transfer. Moreover, even in cases where title to the properties and related assets (rather than ownership interests therein) were acquired by us, the legal doctrine of successor liability may give creditors of and claimants against the prior owners the right to hold us responsible for liabilities which arose with respect to such properties prior to their acquisition by us, whether or not such liabilities were expressly assumed by us.
As a result of the foregoing, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to liabilities and claims arising from events which occurred or circumstances which existed prior to our acquisition of those properties, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and pay amounts due on our debt.
RISKS DUE TO REAL ESTATE FINANCING
We anticipate that future developments and acquisitions will be financed, in whole or in part, under various construction loans, lines of credit, other forms of secured or unsecured financing or through the issuance of additional debt or equity by us. We expect periodically to review our financing options regarding the appropriate mix of debt and equity financing. Equity, rather than debt, financing of future developments or acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on the interests of our existing shareholders. Similarly, there are certain risks involved with financing future developments and acquisitions with debt, including those described below. In addition, if new developments are financed through construction loans, there is a risk that, upon completion of construction, permanent financing for such properties may not be available or may be available only on disadvantageous terms or that the cash flow from new properties will be insufficient to cover debt service. If a newly developed or acquired property is unsuccessful, our losses may exceed our investment in the property. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt.
POTENTIAL INABILITY TO RENEW, REPAY OR REFINANCE OUR DEBT FINANCING
We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that indebtedness on our properties, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness. If we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of the properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and pay amounts due on our debt. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code. INCREASE IN COST OF INDEBTEDNESS DUE TO RISING INTEREST RATES
We have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness which bears interest at a variable rate. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments (including our debt). In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our common shares to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for IRET Shares of Beneficial Interest.
POTENTIAL INCURRENCE OF ADDITIONAL DEBT AND RELATED DEBT SERVICE
We currently fund the acquisition and development of multifamily communities partially through borrowings (including our line of credit) as well as from other sources such as sales of properties which no longer meet our investment criteria or the contribution of property to joint ventures. We could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions and to pay amounts due on our debt and in an increased risk of default on our obligations.
POTENTIAL LIABILITY UNDER ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos- containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. The operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. In connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development and/or control of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. Our current policy is to obtain a Phase I environmental study on each property we seek to acquire and to proceed accordingly. No assurance can be given, however, that the Phase I environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future properties will reveal all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us, that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such properties or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt. We currently carry no insurance for environmental liabilities.
Certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. A transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. Thus, we may have liability with respect to properties previously sold by us or our predecessors.
PROVISIONS WHICH COULD LIMIT A CHANGE IN CONTROL OR DETER A TAKEOVER
In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities). In order to protect us against risk of losing our status as a REIT due to a concentration of ownership among our shareholders, our articles of incorporation provide, among other things, that if the Board determines, in good faith, that direct or indirect ownership of IRET Shares of Beneficial Interest has or may become concentrated to an extent that would prevent us from qualifying as a REIT, the Board may prevent the transfer or call for redemption (by lot or other means affecting one or more shareholders selected in the sole discretion of the Board) of a number of shares sufficient in the opinion of the Board to maintain or bring the direct or indirect ownership of IRET Shares of Beneficial Interest into conformity with the requirements for maintaining REIT status. These limitations may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third-party without consent of the Board.
TAX LIABILITIES AS A CONSEQUENCE OF FAILURE TO QUALITY AS A REIT
Although management believes that we are organized and are operating so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, no assurance can be given that we have in fact operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 90% of our taxable gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources and we must make distributions to shareholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains). Thus, to the extent revenues from non qualifying sources such as income from third-party management represents more than 10% of our gross income in any taxable year, we will not satisfy the 90% income test and may fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions apply, and, even if those relief provisions apply, a tax would be imposed with respect to excess net income, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt. Additionally, to the extent the Operating Partnership or certain other subsidiaries are determined to be taxable as a corporation, we would not qualify as a REIT, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt. Finally, no assurance can be given that new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification.
If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates, which would likely have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to you and to pay amounts due on our debt. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce funds available for investment or distributions to you because of the additional tax liability to us for the year or years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to you. To the extent that distributions to you would have been made in anticipation of qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain investments to pay the applicable tax.
ITEM 3.