ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company's manufacturing plants and administrative offices, along with certain information concerning the products and facilities at April 2, 1995, are as follows:
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
As of June 2, 1995, there were approximately 2290 shareholders of record of the Company's common stock. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PCP. It is also traded on the Midwest Stock Exchange, the Pacific Stock Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Additional information with respect to Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters, including dividends, is incorporated herein by reference to the Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data and the Quarterly Financial Information in Exhibit 13, the "Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp." The Company expects to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, subject to its earnings, financial condition and other factors.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Information with respect to Selected Financial Data is incorporated herein by reference to the Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data in Exhibit 13, the "Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp."
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Information with respect to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is incorporated herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 13, the "Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp."
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Information with respect to Financial Statements and Supplementary Data is incorporated herein by reference to pages 32 through 62 of Exhibit 13, the "Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp."
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information with respect to Directors of the Company is incorporated herein by reference to "Proposal 1: Election of Directors" continuing through "Report of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement dated June 29, 1995 for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant. The information required by this item with respect to the Company's executive officers follows Part I, Item 4 of this document.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Information with respect to Executive Compensation is incorporated herein by reference to "Compensation of Executive Officers" in the Proxy Statement dated June 29, 1995 for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
Information with respect to Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management is incorporated herein by reference to "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" in the Proxy Statement dated June 29, 1995 for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
None.
PART IV
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(a)(1) Financial Statements The following financial statements incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13, the "Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp.," are filed as part of this report.
(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedule The following schedule is filed as part of this report:
Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule
(b) A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed March 23, 1995 reporting under Item 2 thereof the acquisition of Quamco, Inc. Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K/A was filed on May 22, 1995 including the following financial statements:
1. Financial Statements of Business Acquisition
Report of Independent Public Accountants.
Quamco, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets - October 30, 1994 and October 31, 1993.
Quamco, Inc., Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended October 30, 1994 and October 31, 1993.
Quamco, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended October 30, 1994 and October 31, 1993.
Quamco, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
2. Interim Financial Statements
Quamco, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheet - January 29, 1995 (unaudited).
Quamco, Inc. Consolidated Statement of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 29, 1995 (unaudited).
Quamco, Inc. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Three Months Ended January 29, 1995 (unaudited).
3. Pro Forma Financial Information
Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet January 1, 1995 (unaudited).
Notes to Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet (unaudited).
Pro Forma Combined Income Statements for the Year Ended April 3, 1994 (unaudited) and the Nine Months Ended January 1, 1995 (unaudited).
Notes to Pro Forma Combined Income Statements (unaudited).
(a)(3) Exhibits
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Precision Castparts Corp.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report dated May 3, 1995 appearing on page 10 of the Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp. (which report and consolidated financial statements are included as Exhibit 13 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP _________________________ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP Portland, Oregon May 3, 1995
INDEX TO EXHIBITS EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT (10)D Precision Castparts Corp. Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan dated January 1, 1995.
PDX2-14907.1 62232 0003
CONFORMED COPY
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
January 1, 1995
Precision Castparts Corp. an Oregon corporation 4600 SE Harney Drive Portland, Oregon 97206 Company
Page
1. Plan Administration 1
2. Deferral Elections 1
3. Directors' Deferred Fee Accounts 2
4. Time and Manner of Payment 3
5. Death 4
6. Termination; Amendment 5
7. Claims Procedure 5
8. General Provisions 6
9. Definition of Change of Control 7
10. Effective Date 8
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
January 1, 1995
Precision Castparts Corp. an Oregon corporation 4600 SE Harney Drive Portland, Oregon 97206 Company
Members of the Precision Castparts Corp. Board of Directors who are not employees of Precision Castparts Corp. or an affiliate (Nonemployee Directors) are paid cash retainers and meeting fees, for service as directors of the Company (Directors' Fees).
In order to provide greater incentives for qualified persons to serve as Nonemployee Directors, the Company adopts this plan to allow the Nonemployee Directors to elect from time to time to defer receipt of Directors' Fees.
1. Plan Administration
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company shall appoint one or more employees of the Company as Administrator of the plan. The Administrator shall interpret and administer the plan and for that purpose may make, amend or revoke rules and regulations at any time. The Administrator shall have absolute discretion to carry out responsibilities established under this plan.
2. Deferral Elections
2.1 A Nonemployee Director may elect as provided below to defer all or a specified part of the Directors' Fees payable to the Director. An election shall be in writing on a form provided by the Administrator and shall specify the time and manner of payment of the deferred amounts in accordance with other provisions of this plan.
2.2 An election to defer Directors' Fees received by the Administrator on or before December 31 of any year shall be effective for fees payable for the succeeding calendar year. A new fee deferral election must be made for each calendar year.
2.3 The Company may withhold from any deferral, or from nondeferred fees payable at the same time, any amounts required by applicable law and regulations.
3. Directors' Deferred Fee Accounts
3.1 The Company shall deduct from Directors' Fees and credit to a Directors' Fee Deferral Account (the Account) each Directors' Fee amount deferred under this plan. The Account shall be credited as of the day the deferred Directors' Fee would otherwise have been paid to the Director.
3.2 Until full payment of an Account balance has been made to the Director or beneficiaries entitled to the amount identified by the Account (the Participant), the Company shall adjust the Account quarterly for investment performance as follows:
3.2-1 The investment result shall be determined by the Performance Option selected by the Participant.
3.2-2 Participants may make the Performance Option selections under 3.2-3 as of January 1 and July 1 of any plan year. A Performance Option selection shall either apply to all amounts in a Participant's Account, or shall apply only to future deferral amounts, as selected by the Participant. Selections shall be made in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator and shall be effective as of the January 1 or July 1 after receipt of the form by the Administrator.
3.2-3 Performance Options are designated by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. Initial Performance Options are as follows:
(a) S&P 500 Index, as reported in the Wall Street Journal.
(b) Company Common Stock, as reported in the Wall Street Journal.
(c) Prime Rate plus 2 Percent, based on the average of First Interstate Bank of Oregon's prime rate in effect on the last business day of each month in the quarter.
3.2-4 When the S&P 500 Index and the Company Common Stock Performance Options have been selected, amounts deferred during the quarter shall be credited as equivalent shares at the closing price on the day of the deferral. Cash dividends on
Company Common Stock shall be applied to equivalent shares held on the record date, and shall be credited as additional equivalent shares based on the closing price on the dividend payment date. Cash dividend yield on the S&P 500 Index shall be applied to all deferrals under the S&P 500 Index Performance Option during the quarter, prorated daily, and shall be credited as additional equivalent shares at the end of the quarter based on the S&P 500 Index closing price on the last day of the quarter. All equivalent shares shall be revalued up or down to the closing price on the last business day of the quarter.
3.2-5 When the Prime Rate plus 2 Percent Performance Option has been selected, amounts deferred during a quarter shall be adjusted as of the last day of the quarter based on the quarter's average Prime Rate plus 2 Percent, prorated daily.
3.3 Each Director's Account shall be maintained on the books of the Company until full payment has been made to the Participant entitled to the amount identified by the Account. No funds shall be set aside or earmarked for the Account, which shall be purely a bookkeeping device.
4. Time and Manner of Payment
4.1 Subject to 4.5, 5.1 and 6.3, the Account shall be paid or payment commenced as of the January 31 next after one of the following dates as selected under 4.3:
(a) The date the Director's service on the Company's Board ends, or
(b) The expiration of a specified deferral term (minimum five years) if earlier.
4.2 Subject to 4.5, 5.1 and 6.3, the Account shall be paid in one of the following ways as selected under 4.3:
(a) In a single lump sum.
(b) In not more than five substantially equal annual installments of principal with Performance Option Adjustments. For example, the first payment shall be one- fifth of the balance on the December 31 preceding the first payment date, the second shall be one-fourth of the balance on the December 31 preceding the second payment date, and so on. The final payment shall be the remaining balance adjusted to the final January 31 payment date.
4.3 The time and manner of payment under 4.1 and 4.2 shall be selected by the Director as follows:
(a) The selection shall be made in the deferral election.
(b) The selection shall be irrevocable for the portion of the Account attributable to amounts deferred under the election in which the selection is made.
(c) If the time or method of payment is different under different elections, the Account shall be appropriately divided for distribution.
(d) Other payment options may be established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, and made available prospectively for selection by Directors for future deferrals.
4.4 The Company may withhold from any payments any income tax or other amounts as required by law.
4.5 If a Director's service on the Company's Board ends involuntarily (by removal of the Director or by expiration of the Director's term without reappointment) within 12 months after a Change in Control as defined in 9, the Director's Account shall be paid in one lump sum as soon as practical after the Directors' service on the Company's Board ends, regardless of the otherwise applicable election. If the payment is on a date other than the end of a quarter, the Director's Account shall be adjusted based on the applicable Performance Option as of the most recent month end.
5. Death
5.1 A Director's Account shall be payable under 5.2 on the Director's death regardless of the provisions of 4.
5.2 On death of a Director the Account shall be paid in the following order of priority:
(a) To the surviving beneficiaries designated by the Director in writing to the Administrator in the Director's deferral election(s), or if none then
(b) To the Director's surviving spouse, or if none then
(c) To the Director's surviving children in equal shares, or if none then
(d) To the Director's estate.
5.3 The manner of payment under 5.2 shall be as follows:
(a) Annual installments to the surviving spouse of a Director who elected installments but died before starting to receive payments. The period selected for the Director's payments shall govern the spouse's payments. If the Director had already started receiving installments, the surviving spouse shall receive the installments for the remainder of the term selected by the Director.
(b) A lump sum paid as soon as practical to any other beneficiary.
5.4 On death of a surviving spouse receiving installments under 5.3(a), the Account shall be paid in a single sum to the spouse's estate as soon as practical after death.
6. Termination; Amendment
6.1 The Board of Directors of the Company may terminate this plan effective the first day of any calendar year after notice to the Nonemployee Directors. On termination, amounts in an Account shall remain to the credit of the Account, shall continue to be adjusted quarterly and shall be paid in accordance with 4, 5 or 6, as applicable.
6.2 The Board of Directors of the Company may amend this plan effective the first day of any calendar year after notice to the Nonemployee Directors.
6.3 If the Internal Revenue Service rules that any amounts deferred under this plan will be subject to current income tax, all amounts to which the ruling is applicable shall be paid within 30 days to all Participants with Accounts.
7. Claims Procedure
7.1 Any Participant claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under the plan, or requesting information under the plan shall present the request in writing to the Administrator, who shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.
7.2 If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state the following:
(a) The reasons for denial, with specific reference to the plan provisions on which the denial is based.
(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation of why it is necessary.
(c) An explanation of the plan's review procedure.
7.3 The initial notice of denial shall normally be given within 90 days after receipt of the claim. If special circumstances require an extension of time, the claimant shall be so notified and the time limited shall be 180 days.
7.4 Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within 30 days may request review by notice in writing to the Administrator. The original decision shall be reviewed by the Administrator which may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, whether or not there is a hearing, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
7.5 The decision on review shall ordinarily be made within 60 days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstances, the claimant shall be so notified and the time limit shall be 120 days. The decision shall be in writing and shall state the reasons and the relevant plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all parties concerned.
8. General Provisions
8.1 All amounts of deferred Directors' Fees under this plan shall remain at all times the unrestricted assets of the Company and the promise to pay the deferred amounts shall at all times remain unfunded as to the Participants. The rights of Participants under the plan shall only be as general creditors of the Company.
8.2 Any notice under this plan shall be in writing or by electronic means and shall be received when actually delivered or, if mailed, when deposited postpaid as first class mail. Mail
should be directed to the Company at the address stated in this plan, to a Director at the address stated in the Director's election, to a beneficiary entitled to benefits at the address stated in the Director's beneficiary designation or to such other address as either party may specify by notice to the other party.
8.3 The interests of a Director or beneficiary under this plan are personal and no such interest may be assigned, seized by legal process or in any way subjected to the claims of any creditor.
9. Definition of Change of Control
For purposes of this Plan, a "change in control of the Company" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
(a) Any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
(b) During any period of two consecutive years (not including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board), and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (a), (c) or (d) of this Section) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or
nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;
(c) The stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other company, other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 20 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
10. Effective Date
This plan shall be effective January 1, 1995.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
/s/ R. M. MARVIN _________________________________
Executed: December 5, 1994
EXHIBIT (10)E Precision Castparts Corp. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan dated January 1, 1995.
CONFORMED COPY
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
January 1, 1995
(As Amended Through Amendment No. 1)
Precision Castparts Corp. an Oregon corporation 4600 SE Harney Drive Portland, Oregon 97206 Company
Page
1. Plan Administration 1
2. Eligibility; Deferral 1
3. Executive Deferred Compensation Accounts 3
4. Time and Manner of Payment 4
5. Death 6
6. Termination; Amendment 7
7. Claims Procedure 7
8. General Provisions 8
9. Definition of Change of Control 8
10. Effective Date 10
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
January 1, 1995
(As Amended Through Amendment No. 1)
Precision Castparts Corp. an Oregon corporation 4600 SE Harney Drive Portland, Oregon 97206 Company
Precision Castparts Corp. (the Company) adopts this Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the Plan) to create a deferred compensation arrangement for a select group of management or highly compensated employees (Executives) whose deferred compensation under the Company's other retirement plans may be restricted by law or otherwise may not provide fully for their retirement benefit needs. In order to help the Company attract and retain key Executives, this plan of deferred compensation is adopted effective January 1, 1995 on the terms set forth below.
1. Plan Administration
1.1 The Plan shall apply to the Company and to any Affiliate that employs an eligible employee. "Affiliate" means a corporation or other entity that is more than 50% owned by the Company.
1.2 The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company shall appoint one or more employees of the Company as Administrator of the plan. The Administrator shall interpret and administer the plan and for that purpose may make, amend or revoke rules and regulations at any time. The Administrator shall have absolute discretion to carry out responsibilities established under this plan.
2. Eligibility; Deferral Elections
2.1 The following employees of the Company will be eligible to participate in the plan, subject to 2.2:
(a) Executives currently covered under the Company's Supplemental Retirement Plan for Executives.
(b) Any additional Executives added by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.
2.2 Executives may be removed from eligibility prospectively by the Compensation Committee.
2.3 An eligible Executive may elect as provided below to defer a whole number percentage of the Executive's salary or bonuses or both (Compensation). Different percentages may be selected for salary and for bonuses, up to a maximum deferral percentage set by the Compensation Committee. Initially, the maximum deferral percentage is 25% for salary, 100% for bonuses. The Compensation Committee may change the maximum deferral percentage on or before December 31 to be effective for succeeding calendar years. An eligible Executive may limit a bonus deferral election to the portion of the percentage deferral that exceeds a floor dollar amount designated by the Executive in the deferral election, or to the lesser of a stated dollar amount or a percentage of the bonus.
2.4 An election shall be in writing on a form provided by the Administrator and shall specify the time and manner of payment of the deferred amounts in accordance with other provisions of this plan.
2.5 An election to defer Compensation shall be effective as follows:
(a) A salary deferral election received by the Administrator on or before December 31 of any year shall be effective for the succeeding calendar year. A new salary deferral election must be made for each calendar year.
(b) Except as provided in (c), a bonus deferral election must be received by the Administrator by the last day of the fiscal year before the start of the fiscal year to which the bonus refers. A bonus deferral election shall be effective only for a single bonus period. A new election must be made prior to each bonus period. If no election is made, no deferrals shall be made for the bonus period.
(c) An initial bonus deferral election may be submitted before January 1, 1995 to apply to the bonus, if any, paid in 1995 for the first bonus period that ends in 1995.
(d) In the first year in which an Executive becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the newly eligible Executive may make an election to defer compensation for services to be performed subsequent to the election within 30 days after the date the Executive first becomes eligible. The election shall be effective at the beginning of the next calendar month.
2.6 The Company may withhold from any deferral any amounts required by applicable law and regulations.
3. Executive Deferred Compensation Accounts
3.1 The Company shall deduct from an Executive's Compensation as applicable and credit to an Executive Deferred Compensation Account (the Account) each Compensation amount deferred under this plan. The Account shall be credited as of the day the Compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Executive.
3.2 Until full payment of an Account balance has been made to the Executive or beneficiaries entitled to the amount identified by the Account (the Participant), the Company shall adjust the Account quarterly for investment performance as follows:
3.2-1 The investment result shall be determined by the Performance Option selected by the Participant.
3.2-2 Participants may make the Performance Option selections under 3.2-3 as of January 1 and July 1 of any plan year. A Performance Option selection shall either apply to all amounts in a Participant's Account, or shall apply only to future deferral amounts, as selected by the Participant. Selections shall be made in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator and shall be effective as of the January 1 or July 1 after receipt of the form by the Administrator.
3.2-3 Performance Options are designated by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. Initial Performance Options are as follows:
(a) S&P 500 Index, as reported in the Wall Street Journal.
(b) Company Common Stock, as reported in the Wall Street Journal.
(c) Prime Rate plus 2 Percent, based on the average of First Interstate Bank of Oregon's prime rate in effect on the last business day of each month in the quarter.
3.2-4 When the S&P 500 Index and the Company Common Stock Performance Options have been selected, amounts deferred during the quarter shall be credited as equivalent shares at the closing price on the day of the deferral. Cash dividends on Company Common Stock shall be applied to equivalent shares held on the record date, and shall be credited as additional equivalent shares based on the closing price on the dividend payment date. Cash dividend yield on the S&P 500 Index shall be applied to all deferrals under the S&P 500 Index Performance Option during the quarter, prorated daily, and shall be credited as additional equivalent shares at the end of the quarter based on the S&P 500 Index closing price on the last day of the quarter. All equivalent shares shall be revalued up or down to the closing price on the last business day of the quarter.
3.2-5 When the Prime Rate plus 2 Percent Performance Option has been selected, amounts deferred during a quarter shall be adjusted as of the last day of the quarter based on the quarter's average Prime Rate plus 2 Percent, prorated daily.
3.3 Each Executive's Account shall be maintained on the books of the Company until full payment has been made to the Participant entitled to the amount identified by the Account. No funds shall be set aside or earmarked for the Account, which shall be purely a bookkeeping device.
4. Time and Manner of Payment
4.1 Subject to 4.5, 5.1 and 6.3, the Account shall be paid or payment commenced as of the January 31 next after one of the following dates as selected under 4.3:
(a) The date the Executive retires or terminates employment with the Company, or
(b) The expiration of a specified deferral term (minimum five years) if earlier.
4.2 Subject to 4.5, 5.1 and 6.3, the Account shall be paid in one of the following ways as selected under 4.3:
(a) In a single lump sum.
(b) In not more than five substantially equal annual installments of principal with Performance Option Adjustments. For example, the first payment shall be one-fifth of the balance on the December 31 preceding the first payment date, the second shall be one-fourth of the balance on the December 31 preceding the second payment date, and so on. The final payment shall be the remaining balance adjusted to the final January 31 payment date.
4.3 The time and manner of payment under 4.1 and 4.2 shall be selected by the Executive as follows:
(a) The selection shall be made in the deferral election.
(b) The selection shall be irrevocable for the portion of the Account attributable to amounts deferred under the election in which the selection is made.
(c) If the time or method of payment is different under different elections, the Account shall be appropriately divided for distribution.
(d) Other payment options may be established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, and made available prospectively for selection by Executives for future deferrals.
4.4 The Company may withhold from any payments any income tax or other amounts as required by law.
4.5 If an Executive's employment with the Company ends involuntarily by termination of the Executive's employment within
12 months after a Change in Control as defined in 9, the Executive's Account shall be paid in one lump sum as soon as practical after termination of employment, regardless of the otherwise applicable election. If the payment is on a date other than the end of a quarter, the Executive's Account shall be adjusted based on the applicable Performance Option as of the most recent month end.
5. Death
5.1 An Executive's Account shall be payable under 5.2 on the Executive's death regardless of the provisions of 4.
5.2 On death of an Executive the Account shall be paid in the following order of priority:
(a) To the surviving beneficiaries designated by the Executive in writing to the Administrator in the Executive's deferral election(s), or if none then
(b) To the Executive's surviving spouse, or if none then
(c) To the Executive's surviving children in equal shares, or if none then
(d) To the Executive's estate.
5.3 The manner of payment under 5.2 shall be as follows:
(a) Annual installments to the surviving spouse of an Executive who elected installments but died before starting to receive payments. The period selected for the Executive's payments shall govern the spouse's payments. If the Executive had already started receiving installments, the surviving spouse shall receive the installments for the remainder of the term selected by the Executive.
(b) A lump sum paid as soon as practical to any other beneficiary.
5.4 On death of a surviving spouse receiving installments under 5.3(a), the Account shall be paid in a single sum to the spouse's estate as soon as practical after death.
6. Termination; Amendment
6.1 The Board of Directors of the Company may terminate this plan effective the first day of any calendar year after notice to the eligible Executives. On termination, amounts in an Account shall remain to the credit of the Account, shall continue to be adjusted quarterly and shall be paid in accordance with 4, 5 or 6, as applicable.
6.2 The Board of Directors of the Company may amend this plan effective the first day of any calendar year after notice to the eligible Executives.
6.3 If the Internal Revenue Service rules that any amounts deferred under this plan will be subject to current income tax, all amounts to which the ruling is applicable shall be paid within 30 days to all Participants with Accounts.
7. Claims Procedure
7.1 Any Participant claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under the plan, or requesting information under the plan shall present the request in writing to the Administrator, who shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.
7.2 If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state the following:
(a) The reasons for denial, with specific reference to the plan provisions on which the denial is based.
(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation of why it is necessary.
(c) An explanation of the plan's review procedure.
7.3 The initial notice of denial shall normally be given within 90 days after receipt of the claim. If special circumstances require an extension of time, the claimant shall be so notified and the time limited shall be 180 days.
7.4 Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within 30 days may request review by notice in writing to the Administrator. The original decision shall be reviewed by the Administrator which may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, whether or not there is a hearing, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
7.5 The decision on review shall ordinarily be made within 60 days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstances, the claimant shall be so notified and the time limit shall be 120 days. The decision shall be in writing and shall state the reasons and the relevant plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all parties concerned.
8. General Provisions
8.1 All amounts of deferred Compensation under this plan shall remain at all times the unrestricted assets of the Company and the promise to pay the deferred amounts shall at all times remain unfunded as to the Participants. The rights of Participants under the plan shall only be as general creditors of the Company.
8.2 Any notice under this plan shall be in writing or by electronic means and shall be received when actually delivered or, if mailed, when deposited postpaid as first class mail. Mail should be directed to the Company at the address stated in this plan, to a Director at the address stated in the Executive's election, to a beneficiary entitled to benefits at the address stated in the Executive's beneficiary designation or to such other address as either party may specify by notice to the other party.
8.3 The interests of an Executive or beneficiary under this plan are personal and no such interest may be assigned, seized by legal process or in any way subjected to the claims of any creditor.
9. Definition of Change of Control
For purposes of this Plan, a "change in control of the Company" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
(a) Any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
(b) During any period of two consecutive years (not including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board), and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (a), (c) or (d) of this Section) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;
(c) The stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other company, other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 20 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
10. Effective Date
This plan shall be effective January 1, 1995.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
/s/ R. M. MARVIN __________________________________
Executed: December 5, 1994
AMENDMENT NO. 1 EXECUTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1995: _____________________________________________________________
Adopted: March 24, 1995
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
/s/ R. M. MARVIN __________________________________ Executed: March 24, 1995
EXHIBIT 11
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP. CALCULATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE FOR THE YEAR ENDED APRIL 2, 1995
EXHIBIT 13 Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp.
Consolidated Statements of Income Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries (In thousands, except per share data)
See Notes to Financial Statements on pages 41 through 58.
Consolidated Balance Sheets Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries (In thousands)
See Notes to Financial Statements on pages 41 through 58.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries (In thousands)
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Investment Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries (In thousands)
See Notes to Financial Statements on pages 41 through 58.
Notes to Financial Statements
(In thousands, except share and per share data)
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PCC and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions. PCC's fiscal year is based on a 52-53 week year ending the Sunday closest to March 31.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less. These investments are available-for-sale with market values approximating cost.
Valuation of Inventories The LIFO inventory cost method is utilized for work in process and metal inventories at most domestic operations. The average inventory cost method is utilized for all other inventories. Costs utilized for inventory valuation purposes include labor, material and manufacturing overhead. Inventories valued at the lower of current average cost or market would have been $5,300, $4,200 and $4,300 higher than those reported at April 2, 1995, April 3, 1994 and March 28, 1993. PCC uses the single pool dollar value method for computing LIFO inventories; therefore, it is not possible to present the breakdown of inventories between work in process and raw materials.
Depreciation and Capitalization Depreciation of plant and equipment is computed on the straight-line or declining balance method based on the estimated service lives. Estimated lives used are 20-30 years for buildings and improvements and 5-10 years for machinery and equipment. Additions are recorded at cost. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs, and minor improvements are charged to expense. Major improvements and additions are added to the property accounts. When property is sold or retired, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or loss is included in income.
Goodwill Goodwill is amortized over 40 years. Cumulative amortization was $1,700 as of April 2, 1995 and $900 as of April 3, 1994.
Provision for Restructuring During the third quarter of fiscal 1993, the Company recorded a provision for restructuring charges of $27,200 equal to $(0.63) per share. The restructuring charges, which were in response to a significant and continuing industry decline in demand for aerospace components, provided for the estimated cost of employee severances, plant and office consolidations and rearrangements, and other operating asset write-offs at the Company's Structurals and Airfoils Divisions.
Provision for Environmental Matters PCC is engaged in several environmental investigations and remediation efforts in the normal course of business. In 1993, PCC established a provision of $9,900, equal to $(0.23) per share, for elimination and clean-up of a hazardous material used at one of the Company's manufacturing sites in Oregon.
Derivative Financial Instruments At various times, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and prices of strategic raw materials. Gains or losses on these contracts, which are designed as hedge transactions, are measured upon settlement. The Company has controls in place which limit the use of derivative financial instruments and ensure all such transactions receive appropriate management attention. At year-end, there was no material off-balance-sheet risk from derivative financial instruments.
Stock Split In August, 1994, the Company effected a three-for-two stock split by means of a stock dividend. Accordingly, $6,700 representing the stated value for additional shares issued was transferred from paid-in capital to common stock. The number of shares and earnings per share for all prior periods have been restated to reflect the effects of this stock split.
Earnings per Share Earnings per share have been computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during the periods after giving effect to the stock split discussed above. The number of shares used for the earnings per share calculation was 20,000,000 in 1995, 19,500,000 in 1994, and 26,800,000 in 1993. Common stock equivalents were not material in these years. Fully diluted amounts are not presented because they are not materially different than amounts shown.
ACQUISITIONS On April 6, 1994, PCC acquired the assets of ACC Electronics, Inc., a manufacturer of advanced technology metal matrix composites parts, for a purchase price of $5,100, plus assumption of outstanding debt and other liabilities. Goodwill of $11,200 was recorded as a result of this transaction. The business operates as PCC Composites, Inc. On March 8, 1995, PCC acquired 100 percent of the stock of Quamco, Inc., a designer, manufacturer and marketer of premium metalworking tools and machines, specialty powdered metal parts, and other specialty industrial components. The purchase price of $89,900, which included the assumption or retirement of outstanding debt, resulted in the recognition of $57,700 of goodwill and other intangible assets. The transaction was financed from cash balances, the assumption of $8,200 of outstanding debt, and $12,200 of bank borrowings. The business operates as PCC Specialty Products, Inc. The following represents the pro forma results of operations of the Company for the years ended April 2, 1995 and April 3, 1994, assuming the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of each fiscal year.
Fiscal Years Ended _________________________________________________________
April 2, April 3, 1995 1994 _________________________________________________________
Net sales $513,100 $488,100 Net income $ 31,800 $ 26,100 Net income per share $ 1.59 $ 1.34
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and short-term borrowings are reflected in the financial statements at cost which equals fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments. The fair value of long-term debt was estimated using the Company's year-end incremental borrowing rate for similar types of borrowing arrangements. The amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for long-term debt approximate fair value.
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK Approximately 80 percent of PCC's business activity in fiscal year 1995 was with companies in the aerospace industry. Accordingly, PCC is exposed to a concentration of credit risk for this portion of receivables. The Company
has long-standing relationships with its aerospace customers and management considers the credit risk to be low.
ACCRUED LIABILITIES
Accrued liabilities consisted of the following:
NOTES PAYABLE Notes payable of $6,900 consisted of notes payable to banks, of which $6,000 related to the purchase of PCC Specialty Products was repaid subsequent to year-end.
LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt consisted of the following:
The long-term debt agreements contain provisions regarding working capital requirements, limitations on additional borrowings, investments and the payment of dividends. At April 2, 1995, PCC was in compliance with the restrictive provisions of its loan agreements. Retained earnings of $47,000 were available for payment of dividends at April 2, 1995. Long-term debt is payable in each fiscal year as follows: $5,400 in 1996, $5,000 in 1997, $4,500 in 1998, $1,400 in 1999, $1,400 in 2000 and $1,400 in 2001.
INCOME TAXES In fiscal 1994, PCC retroactively adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," for all periods after March 31, 1986, by restating the financial statements of prior periods. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
Income (loss) before provision for income taxes was:
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:
During the first quarter of fiscal 1994, PCC recorded a $2,400 benefit, equal to $0.12 per share, for the settlement of research and development tax credits claimed in 1990 and 1991. The income tax provision (benefit) is different from the amount computed by applying the federal statutory income tax rate of 35 percent in 1995 and 1994, and 34 percent in 1993 to income before income taxes. The reasons for this difference are as follows:
Significant components of PCC's deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
The Company has provided valuation allowances for domestic and foreign net operating and capital loss carryforwards to reduce the related future income tax benefits to zero. The portion of the valuation allowance related to acquired net operating losses was $1,100 at April 2, 1995 and $2,500 at April 3, 1994. If realized, this will be recorded as a reduction to goodwill.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:
Employee Pension Benefits PCC has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all domestic employees. Benefits generally are based on years of service and compensation. PCC's funding policy is to satisfy the funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. In determining the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligation, the following assumptions were used: a discount rate of 8.50 percent in 1995, 7.25 percent in 1994 and 8.00 percent in 1993; a future compensation increase rate of 5.00 percent in 1995 and 1994 and 6.00 percent in 1993; and an expected long-term rate of return on assets of 9.00 percent in all years. The year-to-year fluctuations in the discount rate assumptions primarily reflect changes in interest rates. The discount rates
represent the expected yield on a portfolio of high-grade (AA rated or equivalent) fixed-income investments with cash flow streams sufficient to satisfy benefit obligations under the plans when due. Net pension cost for each of the last three fiscal years was as follows:
The pension liability as of April 2, 1995 includes the assumption of liability related to the pension plans of PCC Specialty Products as a result of that acquisition. Reconciliation of the funded status of the plans to the pension liability was as follows:
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions PCC provides postretirement medical benefits for eligible employees who have satisfied plan eligibility provisions, which include age and/or service requirements.
In fiscal 1994, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions." Under SFAS No. 106, the costs of retiree health care are accrued over relevant service periods. Previously, these costs were charged to expense as claims were paid. The Company elected to immediately recognize the transition obligation, resulting in a one-time charge of $4,700 equal to $2,900 after tax, or $0.15 per share. Postretirement medical benefits which were recorded on a cash basis in 1993 were not material and have not been restated. Assumptions used in determining the net periodic postretirement benefit cost and the accrued postretirement benefit obligation included a discount rate of 8.50 percent in 1995 and 7.25 percent in 1994 and a medical inflation rate of 10.00 percent in 1995 and 13.00 percent in 1994, grading down to 5.00 percent after five and eight years, respectively. The plans are unfunded. The components of postretirement benefits cost for 1995 and 1994 were as follows:
The postretirement benefit liability as of April 2, 1995 includes the assumption of liability related to the acquisition of PCC Specialty Products. The accumulated postretirement benefits obligation at April 2, 1995 and April 3, 1994 was as follows:
A one percent increase in the annual health care trend rates would have increased the accumulated postretirement benefits obligation at April 2, 1995 by $600 and at April 3, 1994 by $800 and increased the postretirement benefits cost by $100 in each 1995 and 1994.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Various lawsuits arising during the normal course of business are pending against PCC. In the opinion of management, the outcome of these lawsuits will have no significant effect on PCC's consolidated financial position.
REPURCHASE OF COMMON STOCK At March 28, 1993, PCC was committed to repurchase approximately 7,350,000 shares of common stock at $15.67 per share. The repurchase price totaled $117,000, including transaction and professional fees, and was paid on April 7, 1993. PCC funded the shares repurchase using $67,000 of its own cash and $50,000 borrowed from a bank. In fiscal 1994, the bank borrowing was repaid and the bank credit agreement was terminated.
SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT Authorized shares of common stock without par value consisted of 50,000,000 shares at April 2, 1995, April 3, 1994, and March 28, 1993. Authorized and unissued series A no par serial preferred stock consisted of 1,000,000 shares at April 2, 1995, April 3, 1994, and March 28, 1993. PCC translates the balance sheet of its foreign subsidiary using the exchange rate at the end of the year. The statement of income is translated using the average exchange rate for the year. The effects of such translations are included in the equity account "cumulative translation adjustments."
STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS PCC has stock incentive plans for certain officers, key salaried employees and directors. The officer and employee stock incentive plans allow for the granting of stock options, stock bonuses, stock appreciation rights, cash bonus rights and sale of restricted stock. Awards under the officer and employee stock incentive plans are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The time limit within which options may be exercised and other exercise terms are fixed by the Committee. The directors' plan grants options for 1,000 shares annually to each outside director. Option prices of the plans to date have been at the fair market value on the date of grant. When stock options are exercised, the proceeds (including any tax benefits to the Company arising as a result of the exercise) are credited to the appropriate
common stock and paid-in capital accounts. At April 2, 1995, 1,444,000 stock incentive plan shares were available for future grants and 1,036,000 stock incentive shares were immediately exercisable. The outstanding options for stock incentive plan shares have expiration dates ranging from 1995 to 2004. Changes during 1995, 1994 and 1993 in stock incentive plan shares outstanding and exercisable were as follows:
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN In 1988, PCC adopted a shareholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase 1/100 of a share of series A no par serial preferred stock at a purchase price of $135, subject to adjustment. The rights will be exercisable only (i) if a person or group has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, 20 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, (ii) following the commencement of a tender or exchange offer for 20 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, or (iii) after the Board of Directors of PCC declares any person who owns more than 10 percent of the outstanding common stock to be an Adverse Person. Each right will entitle its holder to receive, upon exercise, common stock (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other security of PCC) having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. If, after a person acquires 20 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, PCC is acquired in a merger or other business combination in which PCC does not survive or in which its common stock is exchanged, each right will be adjusted to entitle its holder to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. The rights expire on December 16, 1998 and may be redeemed by PCC for $0.01 per right at any time until a determination is made that any person is an Adverse Person or 10 days following the time that a person has acquired 20 percent or more of the outstanding common stock, or in connection with certain transactions approved by the Board of Directors. The rights do not have voting or dividend rights, and until they become exercisable, have no dilutive effect on the earnings of PCC.
SEGMENT INFORMATION PCC manufactures and markets metal parts in one industry segment. Principal customers are manufacturers of aircraft jet engines, industrial and marine gas turbine engines and other industrial products, including pumps, compressors, automotive components, devices for surgical bone repair and replacement, electronics, fasteners, firearms and consumer appliances. Net sales included sales to General Electric in the amounts of $92,600 in 1995, $97,400 in 1994, and $116,800 in 1993 and sales to Pratt & Whitney in the amounts of $72,600 in 1995, $96,400 in 1994, and $122,900 in 1993. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of net sales.
Export sales from the United States of $108,900 in 1995, $95,100 in 1994, and $93,000 in 1993 were made principally to customers in Western Europe. Total net sales to customers outside the United States were $126,800 in 1995, $107,200 in 1994, and $111,700 in 1993 or 29 percent, 26 percent, and 24 percent of the Company's sales in those years. Total net sales and identifiable assets of PCC's foreign subsidiary represent less than 10 percent of consolidated totals.
Report of Management The management of PCC has prepared the consolidated financial statements and related financial data contained in this Annual Report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and reflect judgments and estimates with appropriate consideration to materiality. Management is responsible for the integrity and objectivity of the financial statements and other financial data included in the report. PCC maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that transactions are properly executed and recorded. The system includes policies and procedures, internal audits and reviews by Company officers. Price Waterhouse LLP, certified public accountants, provide an objective, independent review of management's discharge of its obligation related to the fairness of reporting operating results and financial condition. Price Waterhouse LLP performs auditing procedures necessary in the circumstances to render an opinion on the financial statements contained in this report. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of outside directors. The Committee meets periodically and, when appropriate, separately with representatives of the independent public accountants and the internal auditors to monitor the activities of each.
/s/ WILLIAM C. MCCORMICK /s/ WILLIAM D. LARSSON _________________________ _________________________ William C. McCormick William D. Larsson Chairman, President Vice President and and Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Officer
Report of Independent Accountants
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Precision Castparts Corp.:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and shareholders' investment present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Precision Castparts Corp. and its subsidiaries at April 2, 1995 and April 3, 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended April 2, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP ____________________________ Price Waterhouse LLP Portland, Oregon May 3, 1995
Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data
The Selected Financial Data have been restated, as appropriate, to reflect the three-for-two stock split, effective August, 1994.
Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (In thousands, except per share data)
The Quarterly Financial Information has been restated, as appropriate, to reflect the three-for- two stock split, effective August, 1994.
[FN] __________ (1) For fiscal 1994, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions." The Company elected to immediately recognize the transition obligation, resulting in a one-time charge of $4,700, equal to $2,900 after tax, or $0.15 per share. (2) During the first quarter of fiscal 1994, the Company recorded a $2,400 tax benefit, equal to $0.12 per share, as a result of reaching agreement with the Internal Revenue Service concerning research and development tax credits for fiscal years 1990 and 1991.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Business Overview Sales in fiscal 1995 were up 4 percent to $436.4 million from $420.4 million in fiscal 1994. Net income of $29.0 million in 1995 was up 31 percent from the prior fiscal year's results of $22.2 million. The improvements in sales and net income were achieved despite the continuation of the down- cycle in the Company's largest market, the aerospace industry. Beginning in calendar year 1992, deliveries of commercial jet aircraft began a cyclical downturn. Although the rate of decline in worldwide aircraft deliveries is slowing, the overall volume of commercial aircraft deliveries is off nearly 50 percent from the peak of the cycle. This decline in aircraft build rates, coupled with major reductions in military spending during the same period, has resulted in significant reductions in the demand for the Company's aerospace products. To address this challenge, PCC set a course to improve the cost structure and competitive position of its aerospace operations, to identify growth opportunities in other markets for the Company's existing technologies, and to leverage and expand the Company's technical capabilities and markets served through strategic acquisitions. In 1995, PCC made advances in each of these targeted areas, as summarized below:
The Company continued to improve its aerospace business operations by increasing productivity and improving product quality while reducing production cycle times. This has provided the efficiencies necessary to maintain profitability in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
During the year, the Company achieved further diversification by expanding into new applications and markets with its traditional metal forming technologies. Sales growth opportunities for investment castings have been found in a variety of non-aerospace markets such as industrial gas turbines and automotive parts. In addition, sales of metal injection molded parts increased by 30 percent in fiscal 1995 with the majority of the growth occurring in automotive, electronics, firearms and consumer products markets.
Two acquisitions in fiscal 1995 significantly expanded the metal forming technologies of the Company and provided a base for even further diversification and growth. The first of these acquisitions, PCC Composites, which was completed on April 6, 1994, is a manufacturer of metal matrix composite parts. PCC Composites provides a new metal forming technology which the Company can use to increase its
involvement in the electronics and automotive markets. The second acquisition, PCC Specialty Products, completed on March 8, 1995, also expands the Company's metal forming capabilities, and adds to the markets served by the Company. PCC Specialty Products is a designer, manufacturer and marketer of premium metalworking tools and machines, specialty powdered metal parts, and other specialty industrial components. The markets served by PCC Specialty Products include general industrial, appliance, industrial supply, farm equipment and metalworking tools and machines.
Overall, fiscal 1995 was a challenging and successful year for PCC. It was a year when the Company and its employees continued to strengthen the Company's competitive position in the base businesses despite difficult market conditions in the aerospace industry, and it was a year when actions were taken to realize the potential of new strategic directions.
Fiscal 1995 Compared with Fiscal 1994 Sales for fiscal 1995 increased $16.0 million (4%) from the prior year. Nearly half of the increase in sales resulted from the acquisitions of PCC Composites and PCC Specialty Products. Aerospace and aircraft gas turbine sales represented 79 percent of total sales, down $9.4 million compared with 1994, while sales of other industrial and commercial products increased by $25.4 million, or 37 percent, reflecting the Company's continued diversification into non- aerospace markets. Sales to United States government end- users were 16 percent of sales in 1995 and 21 percent in 1994. This decline reflects both the impact of lower military spending levels and the increasing diversification of PCC's customer base. Cost of sales as a percent of sales improved to 82 percent in 1995 from 84 percent in the prior year. This improvement came largely from the higher volume of sales to non-aerospace markets which yield relatively higher margins. These higher margins were partially offset by increased manufacturing costs related to development of new parts for industrial gas turbine applications, metal matrix composite applications and turbocharger wheels for the trucking industry. Selling and administrative costs remained at 7 percent of sales in 1995. However, the Company expects that selling and administrative costs will increase next year, both in terms of total dollars and as a percent of sales, due to higher selling expenses associated with the new acquisitions. In 1995, the effective tax rate was 38 percent as compared with an effective tax rate of 33 percent in 1994. The 1994 effective tax rate included a 6 percentage point reduction reflecting the net effect of a $2.7 million benefit for research and development tax credits partially offset by $0.6 million of tax expense related to adjustment of deferred taxes to reflect the increase in federal tax rates from 34 percent to 35 percent.
The Company's effective tax rate for fiscal 1996 is expected to increase, reflecting higher amounts of non-deductible goodwill amortization and lower amounts of tax free investment income. Net income of $29.0 million in 1995 was 31 percent higher than the $22.2 million earned in the prior year. Income in 1994 reflected the $2.9 million after tax expense due to the effect of the accounting change for postretirement benefits. Earnings per share in 1995 were $1.45 based on 20.0 million shares outstanding versus $1.14 based on 19.5 million shares outstanding in the prior year. These earnings per share results reflect a three-for-two stock split effective in August, 1994.
Fiscal 1994 Compared with Fiscal 1993 Sales for fiscal 1994 declined $41.0 million (9%) from $461.4 million in fiscal 1993 to $420.4 million in 1994. Aerospace and aircraft gas turbine sales, which represented 84 percent of total sales, declined $49.5 million (12%) versus 1993. Sales of other industrial and commercial products increased $8.5 million (14%) due to growth in the electronics and industrial gas turbine markets. The aerospace and other industrial and commercial products sales have been reclassified in 1994 and 1993 to conform to the 1995 classifications. Sales to United States government end-users were 21 percent of sales in 1994 and 24 percent in 1993. Cost of sales as a percent of sales was 84 percent in 1994 compared to 85 percent in 1993. The improvement in cost of sales resulted from cuts in operating costs, improvements in product quality and reductions in product cycle times. Workforce reductions of 8 percent in 1994 and nearly 40 percent since 1992 have provided a significant portion of the operating cost improvements. Results in 1993 included provisions for restructuring charges of $27.2 million and environmental charges of $9.9 million. Selling and administrative costs were 5 percent lower in 1994 than 1993, reflecting further reductions in personnel and improved efficiencies. The effective tax rate was 33 percent in 1994 before consideration of the cumulative effect of the change in accounting for postretirement benefits, which had an effective tax rate of 38 percent. In 1993, the effective tax rate was 33 percent before consideration of restructuring and environmental charges which had a tax benefit of 38 percent. The 1994 effective tax rate included $2.7 million of research and development tax credits. This benefit was partially offset by the increase in the federal income tax rate from 34 percent in 1993 to 35 percent in 1994. Together, the tax credit benefit and rate change expense reduced the effective tax rate 6 percentage points.
Net income was $22.2 million after consideration of the effect of the accounting change in 1994, as compared with $1.8 million in 1993, after restructuring and environmental charges. Earnings per share were $1.14 based on 19.5 million shares outstanding in 1994 and $0.07 based on 26.8 million shares in 1993. The Company repurchased 7.4 million shares of stock in April, 1994. The shares and earnings per share have been restated to reflect the effects of the stock split in August, 1994.
Liquidity and Capital Resources At April 2, 1995, total capitalization of $284.4 million consisted of $26.0 million of debt and $258.4 million of equity. The debt-to-equity ratio at the end of fiscal 1995 was 10 percent, up from 7 percent at the end of the prior year, reflecting the borrowings and assumption of debt associated with the acquisition of PCC Specialty Products in March, 1995. Operating and investing activities used $57.2 million of cash in 1995. Cash of $87.5 million was expended for two business acquisitions, while earnings generated $57.2 million and changes in working capital consumed $17.0 million. During 1995, excluding additions related to business acquisitions, receivables and inventories increased $7.6 million principally due to the higher level of sales and the strategic purchase of certain raw materials in excess of current requirements. Payments of liabilities accounted for the majority of the remaining cash expenditures related to working capital. Cash and cash equivalents were $3.9 million at year-end, down $51.3 million from the beginning of the year. At April 2, 1995, the Company had no committed bank credit facilities, but believes that it has the ability to enter into revolving credit or other types of borrowing facilities, if needed. PCC believes that future capital requirements for property, plant and equipment and dividend payments can be funded from existing cash or additional borrowings. The Company continues to evaluate potential acquisitions and believes acquisition opportunities can be funded from cash, additional borrowings or the issuance of stock.
Outlook During the past three years, the aerospace industry has been adversely affected by the depressed economic condition of the airline industry and cutbacks in both domestic and foreign military spending programs. This situation has reduced market demand for the Company's products and has intensified the competitive environment within the aerospace industry. PCC has responded to these challenges by streamlining its aerospace operations and diversifying through both additional non-aerospace business development and acquisitions.
The Company will continue to pursue a strategy of diversification, including acquiring companies with similar or complementary technologies, in order to grow and increase shareholder value. In addition, by improving the aerospace operations, the Company is well positioned to take advantage of the gradual upturn in the aerospace market which is expected to occur in the latter part of this decade. PCC believes its future is very bright and looks forward to the many opportunities which lie ahead.
EXHIBIT 21
SUBSIDIARIES OF PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
EXHIBIT 23
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectus constituting part of the Registration Statement on Form S-3 No. 2-95890, to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectus constituting part of the Registration Statement on Form S-3 No. 2-95855, to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 No. 33-32367, and to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-40559 of Precision Castparts Corp. of our report dated May 3, 1995 which appears on page 10 of the Financial Section of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of Precision Castparts Corp., which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report on the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in Item 14(a)2 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP ______________________________ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP Portland, Oregon June 30, 1995