Item 2 - Properties describe the Company's continuing businesses without the Beloit Segment.
DIP Facility
On July 8, 1999, the Bankruptcy Court approved a two-year, $750 million Revolving Credit Term Loan and Guaranty Agreement underwritten by Chase Manhattan Bank (the "DIP Facility"). The DIP Facility is more fully discussed in Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 - Borrowings and Credit Facilities in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 14 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.
Surface Mining Equipment
P&H is the world's largest producer of electric mining shovels and, in recent years, large walking draglines and is a major provider of manufacturing, repair and support services for the surface mining industry through it's MinePro Services group. In addition, P&H is a significant producer of large diameter blasthole drills and dragline bucket products. P&H products are used in mines, quarries and earth moving operations in the digging and loading of coal, copper, gold, iron ore, lead, zinc, bauxite, uranium, phosphate, stone, clay and other minerals and ores. P&H MinePro Services personnel are strategically located close to customers in major mining centers around the world to provide service, training, repairs, rebuilds, used equipment services, parts and enhancement kits.
Electric mining shovels range in capacity from 18 to 80 cubic yards. Capacities for walking draglines range from 20 to 150 cubic yards. Blasthole drill models have drilling diameters ranging from 9 to 22 inches and bit load capacities from 70,000 to 150,000 pounds.
P&H has a relationship in the electric mining shovel business with Kobe Steel, Ltd. ("Kobe") pursuant to which P&H licenses Kobe to manufacture certain electric mining shovels and related replacement parts in Japan. P&H has the exclusive right to market Kobe-manufactured mining shovels and parts outside Japan (except in the case of certain government sales). In addition, P&H is party to an agreement with a corporate unit of the People's Republic of China licensing the manufacture and sale of two models of electric mining shovels and related components. This relationship provides P&H with an opportunity to sell component parts for shovels built in China.
Underground Mining Machinery
Joy believes it is a leading manufacturer of underground mining equipment. It manufactures and services mining equipment for the underground extraction of coal and other bedded materials. Joy has significant facilities in Australia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States, as well as sales offices in Poland, India, Russia, and the People's Republic of China. Joy products include: continuous miners; complete longwall mining systems; longwall shearers; roof supports; armored face conveyors; shuttle cars; continuous haulage systems; flexible conveyor trains; and roof bolters. Joy also maintains an extensive network of service and replacement parts distribution centers to rebuild and service equipment and to sell replacement parts in support of its installed base. This network includes eight service centers in the United States and five outside of the United States, all of which are strategically located in major underground mining regions.
Certain Financial Information
Financial information about our business segments and geographic areas of operation are contained in Note 24 - Business Segment Information in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 14 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.
International Operations
Foreign sales of the Surface Mining Equipment segment generated approximately 65% of the segment's consolidated net sales in 1999, 68% in 1998, and 71% in 1997. Foreign sales of the Underground Mining Machinery segment approximated 43% in 1999, 27% in 1998, and 42% in 1997. See Note 24 - Business Segment Information in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 14 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.
Harnischfeger's international operations are subject to certain risks not generally applicable to its domestic businesses, including currency fluctuations, changes in tariff restrictions, restrictive regulations of foreign governments (including price and exchange controls), and other governmental actions. Harnischfeger has entered into various foreign currency exchange contracts with major international financial institutions designed to minimize its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on foreign currency transactions. See "Cautionary Factors" below for additional risks associated with international operations.
Employees
As of October 31, 1999, Harnischfeger employed approximately 6,780 people in its continuing operations, of which approximately 4,350 were employed in the United States. Approximately 1,635 of the U. S. employees are represented by local unions under collective bargaining agreements. Harnischfeger believes that it maintains generally good relationships with its employees.
Seasonality
The Company's businesses, excluding aftermarket activity, are subject to cyclical movements in the markets for both surface and underground mining equipment.
Distribution
P&H and Joy sales are made mostly through the segments' headquarters and sales offices located around the world. The manufacture and sale of repair and replacement parts and the servicing of equipment are important aspects of the Company's businesses.
Competitive Conditions
P&H and Joy conduct their domestic and foreign operations under highly competitive market conditions, requiring that their products and services be competitive in price, quality, service and delivery.
P&H is the leading manufacturer of electric mining shovels and, in recent years, large walking draglines. P&H's shovels and draglines compete with similar products made by another U.S. manufacturer and, in certain foreign markets in smaller sizes of such equipment, with foreign manufacturers. These products also compete with hydraulic mining excavators, large rubber tired front end loaders and bucket wheel excavators in certain mining applications. P&H's large rotary blasthole drills compete with several worldwide drill manufacturers. P&H's aftermarket services compete with a large number of primarily regional suppliers.
Joy believes it is a leading manufacturer of underground mining equipment. Its continuous mining machinery, longwall shearers, continuous haulage equipment, roof supports and armored face conveyors compete with a number of worldwide manufacturers of such equipment. Joy's rebuild services compete with a large number of local repair shops. Joy competes with various regional suppliers in the sale of replacement parts for Joy equipment.
Both P&H and Joy compete on the basis of providing superior productivity, reliability and service and lower overall cost to their customers.
Backlog
Backlog by business segment for the Company's continuing operations as of October 31 was:
In thousands 1999 1998 1997 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Surface Mining Equipment $ 141,950 $ 204,451 $ 165,987 Underground Mining Machinery 218,458 181,555 192,353 ------------- ------------- -------------
$ 360,408 $ 386,006 $ 358,340 ============= ============= =============
Raw Materials
P&H purchases raw and semi-processed steel, castings, forgings, copper and other materials from a number of suppliers. In addition, component parts, such as engines, bearings, controls, hydraulic components, and a wide variety of mechanical and electrical items, are purchased from approximately 1,500 suppliers. Purchases of materials and components are made on a competitive basis with no single source being dominant.
Joy purchases electric motors, gears, hydraulic parts, electronic components, forgings, steel, clutches and other components and raw materials from outside suppliers. Although Joy purchases certain components and raw materials from a single supplier, alternative sources of supply are available for all such items. Joy believes that it has adequate sources of supply for component parts and raw materials for its manufacturing requirements. No single source is dominant.
Patents and Licenses
P&H and Joy and their respective subsidiaries own numerous patents and trademarks and have patent licenses from others relating to their respective products and manufacturing methods. Also, patent licenses are granted to others throughout the world and royalties are received under most of these licenses. While Harnischfeger does not consider any particular patent or license or group of patents or licenses to be essential to its respective businesses, it considers its patents and licenses significant to the conduct of its businesses in certain product areas.
Research and Development
Harnischfeger maintains a strong commitment to research and development with engineering staffs that are engaged in full-time research and development of new products and improvement of existing products. P&H and Joy pursue technological development through the engineering of new products, systems and applications; the improvement and enhancement of licensed technology; and synergistic acquisitions of technology by segment. Research and development expenses were $11.1 million in 1999, $18.0 million in 1998 and $15.7 million in 1997.
Environmental and Health and Safety Matters
The activities of the Company are regulated by federal, state and local statutes, regulations and ordinances relating to both environmental protection and worker health and safety. These laws govern current operations, require remediation of environmental impacts associated with past or current operations, and under certain circumstances provide for civil and criminal penalties and fines, as well as injunctive and remedial relief. The Company's foreign operations are subject to similar requirements as established by their respective countries.
The Company has expended substantial managerial and financial resources in developing and implementing actions for continued compliance with these requirements. The Company believes that it has substantially satisfied these diverse requirements. However, because these requirements are complex and, in many areas, rapidly evolving, there can be no guarantee against the possibility of sizeable additional costs for compliance in the future. These same requirements must also be met by the Company's competitors and, therefore, the costs for present and future compliance with these laws should not create a competitive disadvantage. Further, these laws have not had, and are not presently expected to have, a material adverse effect on the Company.
The Company's operations or facilities have been and may become the subject of formal or informal enforcement actions or proceedings for alleged noncompliance with either environmental or worker health and safety laws or regulations. Such matters have typically been resolved through direct negotiations with the regulatory agency and have typically resulted in corrective actions or abatement programs. However, in some cases, fines or other penalties have been paid. Historically, neither such commitments nor such penalties have been material.
Cautionary Factors
This report and other documents or oral statements which have been and will be prepared or made in the future contain or may contain forward-looking statements by or on behalf of the Company. Such statements are based upon management's expectations at the time they are made. Actual results may differ materially. In addition to the assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such statements, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated.
The Company's principal businesses involve designing, manufacturing, marketing and servicing large, complex machines. Significant periods of time are necessary to plan, design and build these machines. With respect to new machines and equipment, there are risks of customer acceptances and start-up or performance problems. Large amounts of capital are required to be devoted by the Company's customers to purchase these machines and to finance the mines that use these machines. The Company's success in obtaining and managing a relatively small number of sales opportunities, including the Company's success in securing payment for such sales and meeting the requirements of warranties and guarantees associated with such sales, can affect the Company's financial performance. In addition, many projects are located in undeveloped or developing economies where business conditions are less predictable. In recent years, between 25% and 65% of the Company's total sales occurred outside the United States.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated include:
o Factors relating to the Company's Chapter 11 filing, such as: the possible disruption of relationships with creditors, customers, suppliers and employees; the Company's degree of success in executing its plan of disposition of Beloit; the ability to successfully prepare, have confirmed and implement a plan of reorganization; the availability of financing and refinancing; and the Company's ability to comply with covenants in its DIP Facility. As a result of the Company's Chapter 11 filing, the continuation of the Company, or segments of the Company, on a going concern basis is subject to significant uncertainty.
o Factors affecting customers' purchases of new equipment, rebuilds, parts and services such as: production capacity, stockpiles, and production and consumption rates of coal, copper, iron, gold and other ores and minerals; the cash flows of customers; the cost and availability of financing to customers and the ability of customers to obtain regulatory approval for investments in mining projects; consolidations among customers; work stoppages at customers or providers of transportation; and the timing, severity and duration of customer buying cycles.
o Factors affecting the Company's ability to capture available sales opportunities, including: customers' perceptions of the quality and value of the Company's products as compared to competitors' products; whether the Company has successful reference installations to show customers; customers' perceptions of the health and stability of the Company as compared to its competitors; the Company's ability to assist customers with competitive financing programs; and the availability of manufacturing capacity at the Company's factories.
o Factors affecting the Company's ability to successfully manage sales it obtains, such as: the accuracy of the Company's cost and time estimates for major projects; the adequacy of the Company's systems to manage major projects and its success in completing projects on time and within budget; the Company's success in recruiting and retaining managers and key employees; wage stability and cooperative labor relations; plant capacity and utilization; and whether acquisitions are assimilated and divestitures completed without notable surprises or unexpected difficulties.
o Factors affecting the Company's general business, such as: unforeseen patent, tax, product, environmental, employee health or benefit, or contractual liabilities; nonrecurring restructuring and other special charges; changes in accounting or tax rules or regulations; reassessments of asset valuations for such assets as receivables, inventories, fixed assets and intangible assets; and leverage and debt service.
o Factors affecting general business levels, such as: political and economic turmoil in major markets such as the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and the Pacific Rim, South Africa, Australia and Chile; environmental and trade regulations; and the stability and ease of exchange of currencies.
Item 2. Properties
As of October 31, 1999, the following principal properties of the Company's continuing operations were owned, except as indicated. All of these properties are generally suitable for operations.
Harnischfeger owns a 94,000 square foot office building in St. Francis, Wisconsin, which is used as its worldwide corporate headquarters.
SURFACE MINING EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS
Floor Space Land Area Location (Sq. Ft.) (Acres) Principal Operations
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.........1,067,000 46 Electric mining shovels, electric and diesel-electric draglines and large diameter rotary blasthole drills.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin......... 180,000 13 Electrical products.
Cleveland, Ohio.............. 270,000 8 Gearing manufacturing.
Cleveland, Ohio.............. 70,000 (1) 2 Rebuild service center.
Gillette, Wyoming............ 29,500 (2) 3 Rebuild service center.
Mesa, Arizona................ 17,000 5 Rebuild service center.
Kilgore, Texas............... 12,400 4 Rebuild Service Center
Bassendean, Australia........ 72,500 5 Components and parts for mining machinery.
Mt. Thorley, Australia....... 81,800 11 Components and parts for mining machinery.
Mackay, Australia............ 35,500 3 Components and parts for mining machinery.
Johannesburg, So. Africa.... 44,000 (3) 1 Rebuild service center.
Belo Horizonte, Brazil....... 37,700 1 Components and parts for mining shovels.
Santiago, Chile.............. 6,800 1 Antofagasta, Chile........... 21,000 1 Rebuild service center. Calama, Chile................ 5,500 1
UNDERGROUND MINING MACHINERY LOCATIONS
Floor Space Land Area Location (Sq. Ft.) (Acres) Principal Operations
Franklin, Pennsylvania....... 739,000 58 Underground mining machinery, components and parts.
Reno, Pennsylvania........... 121,400 22 Components and parts for mining machinery.
Brookpark, Ohio.............. 85,000 4 Components and parts for mining machinery.
Solon, Ohio.................. 101,200 10.6 Components and parts for mining machinery.
Abingdon, Virginia .......... 63,400 22 Underground mining machinery and components.
Bluefield, Virginia.......... 102,160 15 Duffield, Virginia........... 90,000 11 Homer City, Pennsylvania..... 79,920 10 Meadowlands, Pennsylvania.... 117,899 13 Mining machinery rebuild, Mt. Vernon, Illinois......... 107,130 12 service and parts sales. Price, Utah.................. 44,200 6 Wellington, Utah............. 68,000 60
Kurri Kurri, Australia....... 61,000 7 Mining machinery rebuild, service and parts sales.
McCourt Road, Australia...... 101,450 33 Underground mining machinery, components and parts.
Parkhurst, Australia......... 33,500 15 Rebuild service center.
Cardiff, Australia........... 22,600 (4) 3 Repair service center.
Wollongong, Australia........ 27,000 (4) 4 Roof bolting equipment.
Steeledale, South Africa..... 285,140 12.6 Underground mining machinery, components and parts.
Wadeville, South Africa...... 184,620 28.6 Underground mining machinery assembly and service.
Pinxton, England............. 76,000 10 Service and rebuild.
Wigan, England............... 337,000 27 Mining machinery, components and parts.
Worcester, England........... 100,000 9 Mining machinery, components and parts.
- ------------------------- (1) Under a lease expiring in 2002. (2) Under a lease expiring in 2000. (3) Under a lease expiring in 2005. (4) Under a lease expiring in 2001.
The surface mining equipment segment operates warehouses in Casper and Gillette, Wyoming; Cleveland, Ohio; Hibbing, Minnesota; Charleston, West Virginia; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Mesa, Arizona; Elco, Nevada; Hinton, Sparwood, and Cornwall, Canada; Mt. Thorley, Australia; Belo Horizonte, Brazil; Santiago, Iquique and Calama, Chile; Johannesburg, South Africa; and Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela. The warehouses in Casper, Hibbing, Milwaukee, Mt. Thorley, Belo Horizonte and Johannesburg are owned; the others are leased. In addition, the segment leases sales offices throughout the United States and in principal surface mining locations in other countries.
The underground mining machinery segment operates warehouses in Green River, Wyoming; Pineville, West Virginia; Brookwood, Alabama; Carlsbad, New Mexico; Norton, Virginia; Lovely and Henderson, Kentucky; Cardiff, Emerald, Kurri Kurri, Moranbah and Lithgow, Australia; Hendrina and Secunda, South Africa. All warehouses are owned except for the warehouses in Lovely and Henderson, Kentucky; and Secunda, South Africa, which are leased.
Item 3.