Item 2. PROPERTIES for information regarding percentages of space under lease for the Property, as well as information relating to the percentage of rentable space at the Property.
Competition. The Property may compete with other properties in the area in which it is located for, among other things, desirable tenants. Competitors may include properties owned or managed directly or indirectly by Equitable or Lend Lease or their subsidiaries or affiliates or by affiliates of the Associate General Partner. Owners of some of these properties may have greater resources than the Venture and/or may be willing or able to make greater concessions (e.g., lower rent or higher allowances for tenant improvements) to attract tenants. Similarly, tenants of the Property may compete for business with other businesses in the area. While it is currently the intention of management to sell the Property, such competition may adversely affect the business (and, in some cases, the viability) of such tenants and, particularly in the case of retail tenants, may reduce the amount of rent received by the Venture under percentage rent provisions.
The Venture's income from the Property may be affected by many factors, including reductions in rental income due to an inability to maintain occupancy levels, adverse changes in general economic conditions, adverse local conditions (such as decreases in demand for similar or competing facilities or competitive over-building, adverse changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws or decreases in employment), energy shortages or increased energy costs, or acts of God (such as earthquakes and floods). See Item 2. PROPERTIES for a description of difficulties experienced by the Property.
Conflicts of Interest. Equitable and its subsidiaries and affiliates and its advisor, Lend Lease, are among the largest owners and managers of real estate assets in the country and certain activities in which they currently or in the future may engage will be competitive with the Partnership, ML/EQ, and the Venture. As Managing General Partner of the managing partner of the Venture, EREIM Managers Corp. may encounter various conflicts of interest in managing ML/EQ's and the Venture's businesses. These conflicts may, for example, arise in connection with the allocation of leasing or sale opportunities, selection of service providers such as property managers (including whether to retain an affiliate or a non-affiliate), determination to exercise or forbear exercise of certain rights (e.g., eviction or foreclosure), or the timing of investment dispositions or liquidations. While the Managing General Partner believes that it will be able to resolve such conflicts in an equitable manner, it is possible that such conflicts may not be resolved in favor of ML/EQ, the Venture, or the Partnership.
The General Partners or their affiliates are entitled to receive various recurring fees for the supervision and administration of partnership assets and for providing the guaranty of minimum return to BAC holders and to be reimbursed for certain expenses incurred on behalf of ML/EQ. At December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 the accrued balance for these fees and reimbursements totaled approximately $195,000, $480,000 and $630,000, respectively. Supervisory and mortgage loan servicing fees paid by ML/EQ to the Managing General Partner were approximately $362,000, $612,000, and $747,000 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. These amounts, which were then paid by the Managing General Partner at its sole expense to Lend Lease or its predecessor as asset management fees, are included in the statements of operations as asset management fees and as components of general and administrative expense.
Advisory Agreement. On June 10, 1997, in connection with Lend Lease Corporation Limited's purchase of Equitable Real Estate, the Managing General Partner entered into a real estate investment advisory agreement with Equitable Real Estate whereby Equitable Real Estate (currently known as Lend Lease) agreed to perform, at the Managing General Partner's sole expense, certain duties and obligations in respect of ML/EQ. The agreement automatically terminates upon such date as (i) all of the Properties are sold, (ii) all Mortgage Loans are paid and discharged and (iii) the affairs of ML/EQ and the Venture are fully wound up, unless sooner terminated by the Managing General Partner. The agreement is terminable by the Managing General Partner (a) upon a material breach by Lend Lease, (b) for any reason or without cause upon ten days prior written notice to Lend Lease by the Managing General Partner or (c) upon the termination of the investment advisory agreement between Lend Lease and Equitable with respect to Equitable's general account.
Working Capital Reserves. The Partnership has not established working capital reserves at any level. The Partnership may establish and maintain such working capital reserves as the General Partners from time to time may determine appropriate, in light of the nature of the Venture's investments and other considerations.
Insurance. The Property is covered under insurance contracts that provide comprehensive general liability as well as physical damage protection. Such insurance contracts also cover other properties in which Equitable, its subsidiaries, or its insurance company separate accounts have an ownership interest. Although the Venture carries comprehensive insurance on the Property, there are certain risks (such as earthquakes, floods and wars) that may be uninsurable or not fully insurable at a cost believed to be economically feasible. Moreover, there can be no assurance that particular risks that are currently insurable will continue to be so, or that current levels of coverage will continue to be available at a cost believed to be economically feasible. The Managing General Partner, on behalf of ML/EQ as managing partner of the Venture, will use its discretion in determining the scope of coverage, limits and deductible provisions on insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on the Property at an appropriate cost.
Investment Guaranty Agreement and Related Matters. Under an investment guaranty agreement dated March 10, 1988 by and between the Partnership and the Venture (the "Guaranty
Agreement"), The Partnership has guaranteed to pay the Venture, if necessary, ninety days after the earlier of the sale, retirement, or other disposition of the Mortgage Loan and Properties or the liquidation of ML/EQ, an amount which when added to all distributions from ML/EQ to the holders of BACs ("BAC Holders") will enable ML/EQ to provide the BAC Holders with a minimum return (the "Minimum Return") equal to their Capital Contributions plus a simple annual return equal to 9.75% multiplied by their Adjusted Capital Contributions (as defined in the Guaranty Agreement), calculated from the investor closing at which the BAC Holder acquired its BACs. Adjusted Capital Contributions are the limited partners' original cash contributions reduced by distributions of sale or financing proceeds and by distributions of certain funds in reserve, as more particularly described in the Partnership Agreement. The limited partners' original cash contributions have been adjusted by that portion of distributions paid through December 31, 1999 resulting from cash available to ML/EQ as a result of sale or financing proceeds paid by the Venture. The Minimum Return is subject to reduction in the event that certain taxes, other than local property taxes, are imposed on ML/EQ or the Venture, and is also subject to certain other limitations set forth in the Prospectus. If there were no distributions until December 31, 2002, the expiration of the term of ML/EQ, the maximum liability of the Partnership to the Venture under the Guaranty Agreement as of December 31, 1999 is limited to $73,813,456, plus the value of the Partnership's interest in the Venture less any amounts contributed by the Partnership to the Venture to fund cash deficits. The unpaid cumulative Minimum Return under the Guaranty Agreement as of December 31, 1999 was $13.61 per BAC. The unpaid cumulative Minimum Return under the Guaranty Agreement does not necessarily represent the price at which a BAC may be purchased or sold. While the Partnership Agreement provides that the term of ML/EQ may extend until December 31, 2002, ML/EQ's present intention is to sell the remaining Property in advance of the foregoing date. ML/EQ is continuing its efforts to sell the remaining Property. However, there is no certainty as to when the remaining Property will be sold.
The Venture has assigned the Guaranty Agreement to ML/EQ in exchange for ML/EQ's assumption of the Venture's obligations thereunder, including the obligation to pay the Guaranty Fee. Any money distributed by ML/EQ to BAC Holders and/or limited partners of ML/EQ ("Limited Partners") on account of payments made under the Guaranty Agreement will be distributed to BAC Holders and/or Limited Partners based on the total number of BACs or Interests owned by each BAC Holder and/or Limited Partner as of the date the Minimum Return is calculated.
Capital contributions by the BAC holders to ML/EQ totaled $108,484,500. As of December 31, 1999, the cumulative 9.75% simple annual return was $111,468,412. As of December 31, 1999, cumulative distributions by ML/EQ to the BAC holders totaled $146,139,456, of which $27,663,548 is attributable to income from operations and $118,475,908 is attributable to sales of Venture assets, principal payments on mortgage loans, and other capital events. ML/EQ does not currently believe that future cash distributions to the Limited Partners from liquidation of Venture assets will be sufficient to provide the specified Minimum Return. Accordingly, the shortfall will be funded by the guarantor, up to the above described maximum.
The obligations of the Partnership under the Guaranty Agreement will terminate if, upon the written consent or the affirmative vote of BAC Holders or Limited Partners owning more than 50% of the Interests, either (i) EREIM Managers Corp. is removed as the Managing General Partner of ML/EQ or (ii) ML/EQ is dissolved without the consent of EREIM Managers Corp.
As described above, the general partners of the Partnership are LP Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Equitable, and Equitable. The obligations of the Partnership under the Guaranty Agreement are nonrecourse to Equitable but are recourse as to LP Corp. Equitable has entered into an agreement dated as of March 10, 1988 (the "Keep Well Agreement") with LP Corp. which provides that Equitable will make capital contributions to LP Corp. in such amounts as to permit LP Corp. to pay its obligations with respect to the Guaranty Agreement as they become due; provided, however, that the maximum liability of Equitable under the Keep Well Agreement is an amount equal to the lesser of (i) two percent of the total admitted assets of Equitable (as determined in accordance with New York Insurance Law) or (ii) $271,211,250. If there were no distributions until December 31, 2002, the expiration of the term of the ML/EQ, and subject to the foregoing description of the Guaranty Agreement, the obligations of Equitable under the Keep Well Agreement as of December 31, 1999 would be limited to $73,813,456. The Keep Well Agreement provides that only LP Corp. and its successors will have the right to enforce Equitable's obligations thereunder.
The Keep Well Agreement is an unsecured contractual liability of Equitable and is not a policy of insurance. Since the Guaranty Agreement is nonrecourse as to Equitable and the obligation under the Keep Well Agreement to pay all obligations of LP Corp. is not for the benefit of third parties, including ML/EQ and BAC Holders, BAC Holders will have no direct cause of action against Equitable to enforce the obligations of Equitable under the Keep Well Agreement. However, if the assets of the Partnership and LP Corp. are insufficient to satisfy the Partnership's obligations under the Guaranty Agreement, a proceeding in bankruptcy could be commenced against LP Corp. In such event the debtor-in-possession or trustee in bankruptcy would have a claim against Equitable to compel performance under the Keep Well Agreement. If the Managing General Partner, which is an affiliate of Equitable, did not commence an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding against LP Corp. on behalf of ML/EQ, MLH Real Estate Assignor Inc., the initial limited partner of ML/EQ ("the Initial Limited Partner") on behalf of BAC Holders would have a right to compel ML/EQ to commence such involuntary bankruptcy proceeding.
The New York Insurance Law contains provisions limiting the amount of an investment by a New York life insurance company, such as Equitable, in certain of its subsidiaries and in real estate. The Keep Well Agreement provides that Equitable's obligation thereunder is subject to compliance with any applicable limitation on investment contained in the New York Insurance Law.
At December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, Equitable's total surplus, calculated in accordance with the statutory method of accounting, was approximately $4.02 billion, $3.17 billion and $2.46 billion, respectively. At December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, Equitable's total consolidated capital, calculated in accordance with the statutory method of accounting and
consisting of surplus and the Asset Valuation Reserve, was approximately $5.57 billion, $4.72 billion and $3.91 billion, respectively.
AXA Financial, Inc. (the "Holding Company"), a Delaware corporation, owns all of Equitable's outstanding capital stock. Equitable and the Holding Company are subject to the informational requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and in accordance therewith file reports and other information, including financial statements, with the Securities Exchange Commission under Commission File No. 0-25280 and 1-11166, respectively. Such reports and other information filed by Equitable and the Holding Company can be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. and at certain of its Regional Offices, and copies may be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.
Equitable is a diversified financial service organization serving a broad spectrum of insurance, investment management, and investment banking customers. It has been in business since 1859. In 1992, it converted from a mutual life insurance company into a stock life insurance company through a process called "demutualization."
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As described above, ML/EQ performed an analysis as a basis for hold/sell recommendations for the Venture's properties in 1998 and 1999. As a result of the analysis on January 27, 1999, the Venture completed the sale of Richland Mall for $9.01 million. On July 23, 1999 the Venture completed the sale of the 300 Delaware Property for $8.75 million, and on October 28, 1999, the Venture completed the sale of the 16/18 Sentry Park West Property for $29.05 million. In addition, at December 31, 1999, the Venture's only remaining Property was classified as held for sale. ML/EQ is continuing its efforts to sell the remaining Property. However, there is no certainty as to when the Property will be sold.
At December 31, 1999, approximately 56% of the aggregate rentable square feet of the Venture's Property was leased. Leases covering approximately 3.1%, 2.7% and 2.9% of the Property's rentable square feet are scheduled to expire in 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.
Set forth below is a brief description of the Venture's Property at December 31, 1999. Reference is made to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The Venture has fee ownership of the land and improvements relating to the Property.
- ---------------------- (1) Excludes square feet of buildings owned by certain anchor stores and storage space.
Annual Aggregate Lease Payments to be Received (in dollars)(a)
(a) Lease payments to be received under noncancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 1999.
Range of Lease Expiration
Major Tenants
The following list sets forth major tenants for the Property together with percentage of space used by such tenants as of December 31, 1999:
- -----------------
(1) Hudson's Department Store, J.C. Penney, and Target independently constructed and operate their stores at Northland Center and each contributes common area maintenance payments for operating expenses and real estate taxes under separate agreements. These stores covering 511,509 square feet, 283,534 square feet and 117,000 square feet, respectively, are not included in the gross leasable area of the mall. In addition, J.C. Penney pays ground rent. These percentage calculations are based on a total mall area of 1,498,417 square feet, including unowned anchors and excluding storage space of approximately 290,000 square feet.
Description of Property
Northland Center, the Venture's only remaining Property which was transferred to the Venture and Equitable by a deed in lieu of foreclosure on July 22, 1994, is a regional enclosed mall located in Southfield, Michigan. Major tenants include Hudson's Department Store, J.C. Penney and Target. The Venture does not own the buildings occupied by these three major tenants. As of December 31, 1999, excluding these three anchor tenant spaces, Northland Center was approximately 56% leased. Excluding all the anchor space, the inline tenant space was approximately 75.6% leased. Leases covering approximately 3.1%, 2.7% and 2.9% of the space (excluding the anchor stores) are scheduled to expire in 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.
In July 1997, Montgomery Ward, a former tenant, declared bankruptcy. ML/EQ continues its efforts to lease 117,500 square feet of the space vacated by Montgomery Ward. A significant amount of capital may be required to retenant this vacant space. This anchor vacancy as well as the age of the mall place Northland Center at a competitive disadvantage.
On February 25, 2000, J.C. Penney announced that they would be closing 45 unprofitable department stores in their chain. On March 9, 2000, J.C. Penney provided a list of the stores that they intend to close. Included on that list was the Northland Center store, which is scheduled to be closed on June 1, 2000. J.C. Penney currently occupies 283,534 square feet at Northland Center and leases the building from a third party and ground leases the underlying land from another third party. Their lease expires on May 31, 2005, but their operating agreement expired in 1997. J.C. Penney is contractually obligated to pay rent and reimbursements through the end of their lease term. The Venture's portion of the anticipated amount of this obligation is approximately $750,000 per year. There are a number of tenants in Northland Center who have co-tenancy clauses in their leases that entitle them to terminate their respective leases or convert to percentage rent in the event that one or more anchor tenants vacate and/or the space remains vacant for a specified period of time. The anticipated closure of J.C. Penney on June 1, 2000 may trigger such clauses in the future and negatively impact the performance of the Property.
In 1999, the Venture spent $676,000 in capital cost for HVAC/Central Plant, $443,000 on tenant improvements and leasing commissions, and approximately $47,000 on asbestos removal. In 2000, the Venture anticipates spending $36,000 on asbestos removal throughout Northland Center, $32,000 to replace 1,000 feet of failed underground electrical cable, and approximately $16,000 on HVAC/Central Plant.
In 1999, as a result of the analysis that was performed by ML/EQ as a basis for hold/sell recommendations for the Venture's properties, the Property was classified as held for sale. ML/EQ is continuing its efforts to sell the Property. However, there is no certainty as to when the Property will be sold.
ITEM 3.