Item 2. PROPERTIES for a discussion of competitive pressures experienced with respect to the Brookdale Loan. In this regard, it should be noted that many lenders have continued to curtail extending credit to many businesses and industries, including real estate owners and developers. The reasons for such action include, but are not limited to, defaults experienced on such loans. There can be no assurance whether or when the availability of credit for real estate financing will increase. Liquidation or dissolution of the Venture will be delayed until the sale, retirement or other disposition of all of the Mortgage Loans and Properties held by the Venture (other than purchase money notes from the sale of a property) or the liquidation of the Partnership, but not beyond December 31, 2002. See INVESTMENT GUARANTY AGREEMENT AND RELATED MATTERS below.
Conflicts of Interest. Equitable and its subsidiaries and affiliates are among the largest managers of real estate assets in the country and certain activities in which they currently or in the future may engage will be competitive with the Partnership and the Venture. As Managing General Partner of the managing partner of the Venture, EREIM Managers Corp. may encounter various conflicts of interest in managing the Partnership's and the Venture's businesses. These conflicts may, for example, arise in connection with the allocation of leasing or sale opportunities, selection of service providers such as property managers (including whether to retain an affiliate or a non-affiliate), determination to exercise or forbear exercise of certain rights (e.g., eviction or foreclosure), or the timing of investment dispositions or liquidations. While EREIM Managers Corp. believes that it will be able to resolve such conflicts in an equitable manner, it is possible that such conflicts may not be resolved in favor of the Partnership or the Venture.
Presently nine Properties are managed by Compass Management and Leasing, Inc. ("Compass") and Compass Retail, Inc. ("Compass Retail"), affiliates of Equitable. The property management agreements are at market rates but not in excess of the rates permitted under the Partnership Agreement.
Working Capital Reserves. The Partnership intends to maintain adequate working capital reserves to meet short and long-term commitments. The Partnership's reserves may be increased or decreased from time to time based upon the Managing General Partner's determination as to their adequacy; provided, however, that such working capital reserves may not be decreased below 1% of gross offering proceeds prior to the time that the Partnership enters its liquidation phase. Working capital reserves as of December 31, 1995, including the Partnership's allocable share of Venture cash reserves, are approximately 15.9% of the Partnership's gross offering proceeds. See Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
Insurance. The Properties are covered under insurance contracts which provide comprehensive general liability as well as physical damage protection. Such insurance contracts also cover other properties in accounts which are advised or managed by Equitable or its subsidiaries
as well as certain properties in which Equitable, its subsidiaries, or its insurance company separate accounts have an ownership interest.
Although the Venture carries comprehensive insurance on the Properties and the terms of each of the Venture's Mortgage Loans require the borrower to obtain and maintain general liability, property damage and certain other insurance in specified amounts, there are certain risks (such as earthquakes, floods and wars) which may be uninsurable or not fully insurable at a cost believed to be economically feasible. Moreover, there can be no assurance that particular risks that are currently insurable will continue to be so, or that current levels of coverage will continue to be available at a cost believed to be economically feasible. The Managing General Partner, on behalf of the Partnership as managing partner of the Venture, will use its discretion in determining the scope of coverage, limits and deductible provisions on insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on the Properties at an appropriate cost. Similarly, the Managing General Partner will use its discretion in determining whether and when to permit borrowers under the Mortgage Loans to obtain and maintain coverage that differs from the requirements of the mortgages, with a view to requiring appropriate insurance on the properties which secure the Mortgage Loans in light of prevailing insurance market, economic, and other factors. This may result in insurance which will not cover the full extent of a loss or claim.
Investment Guaranty Agreement and Related Matters. Under an investment guaranty agreement dated March 10, 1988 by and between EREIM LP Associates and the Venture (the "Guaranty Agreement"), EREIM LP Associates has guaranteed to pay the Venture, if necessary, ninety days after the earlier of the sale, retirement, or other disposition of all of the Mortgage Loans and Properties or the liquidation of the Partnership, an amount which when added to all distributions from the Partnership to the holders of BACs ("BAC Holders") will enable the Partnership to provide the BAC Holders with a minimum return (the "Minimum Return") equal to their Capital Contributions plus a simple annual return equal to 9.75% multiplied by their Adjusted Capital Contributions (as defined in the Guaranty Agreement), calculated from the investor closing at which the BAC Holder acquired its BACs.
The Venture has assigned the Guaranty Agreement to the Partnership in exchange for the Partnership's assumption of the Venture's obligations, including the obligation to pay the Guaranty Fee. Any moneys distributed by the Partnership to BAC Holders and/or limited partners of the Partnership ("Limited Partners") on account of payments made under the Guaranty Agreement will be distributed to BAC Holders and/or Limited Partners based on the total number of BACs or Interests owned by each BAC Holder and/or Limited Partner as of the date the Minimum Return is calculated.
If the Venture holds a purchase money note from the sale of a Property at the time all other investments of the Partnership and the Venture have been disposed of and the proceeds distributed, any remaining obligation of EREIM LP Associates under the Guaranty Agreement will be reduced by (i) the aggregate amount of all cash payments to BAC Holders and Limited Partners and (ii) the discounted value (at the market rate of interest of a U.S. Treasury security having a comparable term) of principal and interest payments on the purchase money note. EREIM LP Associates will be required to either purchase the purchase money note from the Venture at its discounted value or guarantee timely payment of principal and interest under the note, but only to the extent such
note reduces obligations under the Guaranty Agreement and so long as the note does not reduce obligations below zero. If the Venture sells a purchase money note at a premium over the discounted value of the note, the premium will be paid to EREIM LP Associates to the extent of any payments made under the Guaranty Agreement. Moreover, EREIM LP Associates will be entitled to receive any cash payments paid to the Partnership (other than payments from a purchase money note guaranteed by EREIM LP Associates) to the extent that it has made any payment under the Guaranty Agreement.
The obligation of EREIM LP Associates to pay the Minimum Return is subject to reduction for (i) any Federal, state or local corporate income or franchise tax imposed upon the Partnership or the Venture, and (ii) any Federal, state or local income, gross receipts, value-added, excise or similar tax imposed on the Partnership or the Venture not imposed under law at the time of the Offering, other than any such local tax imposed as a result of owning real property in the locality. All distributions from the Partnership to BAC Holders from whatever source will reduce the amount of EREIM LP Associates' obligation under the Guaranty Agreement. The obligations of EREIM LP Associates under the Guaranty Agreement will terminate in the event that upon the written consent or the affirmative vote of BAC Holders or Limited Partners owning more than 50% of the Interests either (i) EREIM Managers Corp. is removed as the Managing General Partner of the Partnership or (ii) the Partnership is dissolved without the consent of EREIM Managers Corp. The maximum liability of EREIM LP Associates under the Guaranty Agreement is $271,211,250. Subject to the foregoing, the obligations of EREIM LP Associates under the Guaranty Agreement as of December 31, 1995 are limited to $246,687,614 plus the value of EREIM LP Associates' interest in the Venture less any amounts contributed by EREIM LP Associates to the Venture to fund cash deficits.
As described above, the general partners of EREIM LP Associates are EREIM LP Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Equitable, and Equitable. The obligations of EREIM LP Associates under the Guaranty Agreement are nonrecourse to Equitable but are recourse as to EREIM LP Corp. Equitable has entered into an agreement dated as of March 10, 1988 (the "Keep Well Agreement") with EREIM LP Corp. which provides that Equitable will make capital contributions to EREIM LP Corp. in such amounts as to permit EREIM LP Corp. to pay its obligations with respect to the Guaranty Agreement as they become due; provided, however, that the maximum liability of Equitable under the Keep Well Agreement is an amount equal to the lesser of (i) two percent of the total admitted assets of Equitable (as determined in accordance with New York Insurance Law) or (ii) $271,211,250. Subject to the foregoing, the obligations of Equitable under the Keep Well Agreement as of December 31, 1995 are $246,687,614. The Keep Well Agreement provides that only EREIM LP Corp. and its successors will have the right to enforce Equitable's obligations thereunder.
The Keep Well Agreement is an unsecured contractual liability of Equitable and is not a policy of insurance. Since the Guaranty Agreement is nonrecourse as to Equitable and the obligation under the Keep Well Agreement to pay all obligations of EREIM LP Corp. is not for the benefit of third parties, including the Partnership and BAC Holders, BAC Holders will have no direct cause of action against Equitable to enforce the obligations of Equitable under the Keep Well Agreement. However, if the assets of EREIM LP Associates and EREIM LP Corp. are insufficient to satisfy EREIM LP Associates' obligations under the Guaranty Agreement, a proceeding in
bankruptcy could be commenced against EREIM LP Corp. In such event the debtor-in-possession or trustee in bankruptcy would have a claim against Equitable to compel performance under the Keep Well Agreement. If the Managing General Partner, which is an affiliate of Equitable, did not commence an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding against EREIM LP Corp. on behalf of the Partnership, MLH Real Estate Assignor Inc., the initial limited partner of the Partnership (the "Initial Limited Partner"), on behalf of BAC Holders would have a right to compel the Partnership to commence such involuntary bankruptcy proceeding.
The New York Insurance Law contains provisions limiting the amount of an investment by a New York life insurance company, such as Equitable, in certain of its subsidiaries and in real estate. The Keep Well Agreement provides that Equitable's obligation thereunder is subject to compliance with any applicable limitation on investment contained in the New York Insurance Law.
At December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, Equitable's total surplus, calculated in accordance with the statutory method of accounting, was approximately $2.20 billion, $2.12 billion, and $1.83 billion, respectively. At December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, Equitable's total capital, calculated in accordance with the statutory method of accounting and consisting of surplus and the Asset Valuation Reserve, was approximately $3.55 billion, $3.11 billion, and $3.10 billion, respectively.
The Equitable Companies Incorporated (the "Holding Company"), a Delaware corporation, owns all of Equitable's outstanding capital stock. Equitable and the Holding Company are subject to the informational requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and in accordance therewith file reports and other information, including financial statements, with the Securities Exchange Commission under Commission File No. 0-25280 and 1-11166, respectively. Such reports and other information filed by Equitable and the Holding Company can be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. and at certain of its Regional Offices, and copies may be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.
Equitable is a diversified financial service organization serving a broad spectrum of insurance, investment management and investment banking customers. It has been in business since 1859. In 1992, it converted from a mutual life insurance company into a stock life insurance company through a process called "demutualization."
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
At December 31, 1995, approximately 82.2% of the aggregate rentable square feet of the Venture's Properties was leased. Leases covering approximately 9.9%, 11.2% and 5.2% of the Properties rentable square feet are scheduled to expire in 1996, 1997 and 1998 respectively.
Set forth below is a brief description of each of the Venture's investments at December 31, 1995. Reference is made to Notes 3, 4, 5 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The Venture has fee ownership of the land and improvements relating to each of the Properties.
Projected Annual Aggregate Lease Payments to be Received (in dollars)(1)
- ----------- (1) Lease payments to be received under noncancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 1995.
Range of Lease Expirations
Major Tenants
The following list sets forth major tenants for certain Properties together with percentage of space used by such tenants:
- ------------ (A) Hudson's Department Store, J.C. Penney, and Montgomery Ward independently constructed and operate their stores at Northland Center and each contributes common area maintenance payments for operating expenses and real estate taxes under separate agreements. These stores covering 511,509 square feet, 283,534 square feet, and 117,750 square feet, respectively, are not included in the gross leasable area of the mall.
All of the remaining Properties, excluding 7550 Plaza Court, are leased in their entirety to their respective tenants.
Description of Properties
1200 Whipple Road is a one-story warehouse/distribution property located in the Hayward-Fremont market area, approximately 25 miles southeast of San Francisco. At December 31, 1995, the property was 100% leased to Permer Control, Inc. ("Permer") under a lease which runs through August 2003. The property is used as a distribution center for the Emporium Capwell and Weinstocks divisions of Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc. ("CHH") and is described in the March 17 Supplement, which is included as an exhibit to this annual report. The Permer Control lease is assignable to CHH or a subsidiary thereof at any time during the lease, in which event Permer Control is released from liability. All payments due under the lease to date have been made. Permer has vacated the property. CCH continues to make payments in accordance with the lease, and is actively attempting to sublet the property as permitted under the lease. The lease is guaranteed by CHH and management expects all obligations under the lease to be fulfilled.
Richland Mall is a one-level enclosed mall located in Richland Township, Pennsylvania. Tenants include Bon Ton Department Store, Clemens Market, Footlocker, and Radio Shack. At December 31, 1995, the Mall was approximately 88.2% leased with 21,400 square feet vacant. Excluding the two anchor stores, the Mall was 70.3% leased. Leases covering approximately 26.1%, 1.0% and 5.9% of the space are scheduled to expire in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively. Richland Mall is described in the Partnership's Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 19, 1988 (the "July Report"), which is included as an exhibit to this annual report.
Over the past three years, the general economic recession has severely hampered the property's leasing efforts. During this period Richland Mall suffered from lease expirations
and cancellations by virtue of tenant bankruptcies. Management continues to aggressively pursue tenants for the remaining vacant space. The Clemens Market lease expires in April 1996. While Clemens Market will most likely request that the Venture permit it to hold over for a short period of time, it has notified management that it will leave Richland Mall upon completion of its new store within 1-1/2 miles of Richland Mall. Management has not signed a lease with a replacement tenant, but is in negotiations with several potential users of this space. Wal-Mart Stores, a national discount retailer, announced plans several years ago to locate a new store within 2-1/2 miles of Richland Mall; however, zoning for the proposed shopping center which was to include Wal-Mart was rejected by Richland Township in June 1992. Management expects Wal-Mart to again approach the local Zoning board for approval of a site approximately two miles north of Richland Mall. Due to traffic and congestion issues, the Partnership cannot predict whether or when this request will be approved. Furthermore, the Partnership cannot predict the extent to which the Wal-Mart project, if completed, would affect Richland Mall. Should Wal-Mart enter the local market, its size and advertising strength will undoubtedly affect the business of the Bon Ton Department Store and other specialty retail stores within Richland Mall. The current competitive leasing environment and weak retail economy create significant obstacles to maintaining the current level of performance of this Property. Management may attempt to market the property for sale or may decide to undertake a significant renovation of the property. A definite plan of action has not yet been formulated.
16/18 Sentry Park West are two four-story office buildings that together contain 190,616 rentable square feet. Tenants include Liberty Mutual Insurance Company and The Prudential Insurance Company. At December 31, 1995, the property was approximately 85.0% leased. Leases covering approximately 10.4%, 12.8% and 3.6% of the space are scheduled to expire in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively. In order to lease the vacant space, the Venture is continuing to incur expenditures for tenant improvements and leasing commissions. The 16/18 Sentry Park West Property is described in the Partnership's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 2, 1988, which is included as an exhibit to this annual report.
701 Maple Lane, 733 Maple Lane and 7550 Plaza Court are three one-story office/warehouse buildings located in the Chicago metropolitan area. At December 31, 1995, the Maple Lane buildings were 100% leased, while the Plaza Court building was vacant. Precise Data Service was a tenant in the Plaza Court property, but vacated in November 1995. Tenants include Triangle Engineered Products, Co. and Hi Performance, Inc. These properties are described in the Partnership's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 27, 1988 (the "December Report"), which is included as an exhibit to this annual report. One lease covering approximately 44.4% of the space is scheduled to expire in 1998.
1850 Westfork Drive is a one-story warehouse/distribution facility located approximately 15 miles west of the Atlanta central business district. At December 31, 1995, the Property was 100% leased to Treadway Exports Limited ("Treadway"). The lease with Treadway commenced on September 1, 1992 and is for an initial term of three years with two renewal options for a total of an additional three years. On August 30, 1995, Treadway exercised the first renewal option for a term of two years. The 1850 Westfork Drive Property is described in the December Report, which is included as an exhibit to this annual report.
1345 Doolittle Drive is a one-story warehouse/distribution property located in San Leandro, California approximately one mile south of Oakland International Airport. At December 31, 1995, the property was 100% leased. One lease covering approximately 23.5% of the space is scheduled to expire in 1996. Tenants include Gruner & Jahr Printing and Publishing, Stericycle, Inc., National Distribution Agency, Jay-N Company, and OKI Supply Company. The 1345 Doolittle Drive Property is described in the Partnership's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 18, 1989, which is included as an exhibit to the annual report.
800 Hollywood Avenue is a one-story warehouse/office building located in Itasca, Illinois. The building contains 2,500 rentable square feet of office space and 47,837 rentable square feet of warehouse space. The property is 100% leased to Concentric, Inc. through May 31, 1997. This reflects a renewal of the previous lease which otherwise would have expired in January 1994. The lease requires the tenant to pay 100% of real estate taxes, insurance, and certain maintenance costs.
Northland Center, which was transferred to the Venture and Equitable by a deed in lieu of foreclosure on July 22, 1994, is a regional enclosed mall located in Southfield, Michigan. Anchor stores include J.C. Penney, Hudsons and Montgomery Ward. As of December 31, 1995, the Center was approximately 75.1% leased. Leases covering approximately 7.6%, 5.3% and 5.6% are scheduled to expire in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively. A renovation program was commenced at Northland Center in order to improve the marketability of the Center and attract tenants. The renovations were completed during the second quarter of 1995 at a total cost of approximately $11.0 million, of which the Venture's share was approximately $7.9 million.
On February 17, 1995, Equitable Real Estate, on behalf of the Venture and Equitable, as tenants in common, signed an agreement whereby Kohl's Department Store was allowed to terminate its lease obligation at Northland Center. The agreement provided for a payment by Kohl's to the Venture and Equitable totaling $1,750,000 (of which the Venture's share was approximately $1,300,000), in satisfaction of its remaining lease obligations. The Venture recognized these proceeds as lease termination income. On March 17, 1995, Equitable, the Venture and Dayton Hudson Corporation signed an agreement allowing Target to locate a store at Northland. Target is a division of Dayton Hudson, which currently operates a Hudson's Department Store at Northland. Equitable and the Venture agreed to expend funds in the amount of $1,700,000 (of which the Venture's share is approximately $1,200,000) to ready a site for the Target store and to partially demolish the Kohl's store and redemise the remaining portion of Kohl's into mall shops. Management believes that this transaction is positive for the Center. Target will build its own store, and is considered a more appropriate retailer for the Northland market. Target is scheduled to open in April 1996.
Competitive conditions in the retail industry in general and shopping malls in particular have remained difficult. The Venture has tried to reposition its shopping malls to take advantage of the changing demographics of retail customers. However, give the continuing competitive difficulties in the retail industry, the Venture may be unable to sell its shopping malls at a favorable price within the next few years.
The Bank of Delaware Building, which was transferred to the Venture by deed in lieu of foreclosure on November 15, 1994, is a seventeen story office building in Wilmington, Delaware. PNC Bank, a major tenant, occupies 115,085 square feet or 36.6% of the building. PNC's lease expires in May 2005 and contains an option to renew. PNC's rent is substantially below market rates. As of December 31, 1995, the building was approximately 56.3% leased. Leasing the 137,307 square feet of currently vacant space will require substantial renovation expenditures as asbestos is present in a majority of such space. Leases covering approximately 6.8%, 8.5% and 0.8% are scheduled to expire in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.
Management has established a three-year enhancement/stabilization and renovation program for the Bank of Delaware building. See Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for further information regarding this renovation program.
Mortgage Loans
- ----------------- (1) Represents the value of the Venture's 71.66% participation interest in principal and accrued interest on the date of acquisition. (2) On July 1, 1995, in accordance with the mortgage agreement, the Venture began accruing interest off the books on these zero coupon mortgage notes at the default rate of 19.0%. (3) The borrower has defaulted on its obligation to repay the Brookdale Note.
Outstanding Mortgage Loans
Brookdale Zero Note is a first mortgage note secured by Brookdale Center, a regional shopping mall located approximately five miles northwest of the central business district of Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Venture holds a 71.66% participation interest in the zero mortgage note. The Venture acquired its participation interest in 1988 from Equitable which holds the remaining 28.34% interest. The Venture's participation interest had a fair value (including accrued interest) at the time of acquisition of $12,278,885. The borrower is Midwest Real Estate Shopping Center L.P. ("Midwest"), a publicly traded limited partnership (formerly Equitable Real Estate Shopping Centers L.P.). The note has an implicit interest rate of 10.2% compounded semiannually, and it matured on June 30, 1995. The principal and accrued interest at maturity totaled $35,368,572, and the Venture's portion of the entire amount of principal and accrued interest at maturity totaled $25,345,353.
The accrual of interest relating to the Brookdale note was discontinued on the Venture's books beginning with the second quarter of 1995 as the accreted value of the mortgage approximated the estimated fair market value of the Brookdale Center. The Venture's share of the note plus accrued interest at the time was $24,730,409. Midwest defaulted on its obligation to repay the Brookdale Note in full when it matured on June 30, 1995. Notice of default has been given to Midwest. Equitable and the Venture have commenced foreclosure by advertisement proceedings and a court-appointed receiver has been named.
A recently completed internal review of the property, performed for the Venture as of September 30, 1995, estimated the fair market value of Brookdale Center to be $30,000,000. The Venture recorded a valuation allowance of $3,232,210 to value its interest in the Brookdale Zero Note at an amount equal to the Venture's participation interest in the note multiplied by the estimated fair market value of the Center, or $21,498,199. This valuation allowance is presented on the consolidated balance sheets as a decrease in assets and partners' capital and on the consolidated statements of operations as a provision for impairment on zero coupon mortgage. See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS."
For additional information concerning the Brookdale Note and the Brookdale Center, see "REAL PROPERTY INVESTMENTS--The Zero Notes" and "REAL PROPERTY INVESTMENTS--Brookdale and Northland Zero Notes" in the Prospectus, "REAL PROPERTY INVESTMENTS--The Zero Notes" in the March 17 Supplement, and Note 1 to Notes to Financial Statements to the Partnership's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1988, all of which information is included as exhibits to this annual report.
Midwest is subject to the informational requirements under the Exchange Act, and in accordance therewith files reports and other information, including financial statements, with the Securities Exchange Commission under Commission File No. 1-9331. Such reports and other information filed by Midwest can be inspected and copied at the public reference
facilities maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. and at certain of its Regional Offices, and copies may be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.
At December 31, 1995, Brookdale Center was 80% leased (excluding its anchor stores all of which are in operation). One of the anchor stores, having 144,546 square feet, was sold by Carson Pirie and Scott to Mervyn's in April 1995 and continues operation under the Mervyn's name.
Jericho Village Loan is a first mortgage loan to the Wilcon Company secured by an apartment complex in Weston, Massachusetts. Interest-only payments on the loan in the amount of $51,250 are due monthly in arrears during the term of the loan, with the full principal amount of the loan due upon maturity of the loan on February 1, 1999. The borrower may prepay the loan in full subject to a prepayment penalty based on a yield maintenance formula, but not less than 2% of the principal balance of the loan. The property which secures the loan consists of 22 free-standing one and two-story apartment buildings, containing a total of 99 apartment units. At December 31, 1995, the property was approximately 99% leased. The Jericho Village Loan and the property which secures it are described in the December Report, which is included as an exhibit to this annual report.
Mortgage Loans Pursuant to which the Venture Acquired Properties in 1994
Northland Zero Note was a first mortgage note secured by Northland Center, a regional enclosed mall which is located outside of Detroit, Michigan. The Venture acquired its 71.66% participation interest in 1988 from Equitable which held the remaining 28.34% interest. The Venture's participation interest had an estimated fair market value (including accrued interest) at the time of acquisition of $20,774,985. The borrower was Midwest. The note had an implicit interest rate of 10.2 % compounded semiannually with the Venture's portion of the principal and accrued interest totaling $42,882,504 due June 30, 1995. The note provided that the borrower could elect to pay interest currently; however, no interest was paid through July 22, 1994.
Management discontinued the accrual of interest on the Northland note during the quarter ended June 30, 1993 as the accreted value of the mortgage approximated the estimated fair market value of the Northland Center. The Northland mortgage note and first mortgage were accounted for as an in-substance foreclosure at December 31, 1993, and the zero mortgage note was reclassified as an other real estate asset. The Venture recognized a loss of $7,628,000 as of December 31, 1993 to record Northland Center at its estimated fair market value. This amount included $4,730,000 reserved by the Venture as its share of the $6.6 million to be paid to Midwest on the transfer of Northland Center.
On July 22, 1994, Midwest transferred Northland Center to the Venture and Equitable in proportion to their respective undivided interests in the Northland mortgage. Following the transfer which was retroactive as of January 1, 1994, Northland Center was reclassified from other real estate assets to rental properties and income and expenses were recorded from that date. The Venture records its proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, revenues,
and expenses of the undivided interests in the Northland Center in accordance with the tenancy in common arrangements set forth in the Participation Agreement dated September 27, 1988 between the Venture and Equitable, which is included as an exhibit to this annual report. The Venture and Equitable paid the owner $6.6 million at the time of transfer (an amount which was determined to approximate the net present value of the anticipated cash flow from Northland Center, subject to closing adjustments, for the period from January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995, the date the Northland mortgage would have matured).
For additional information concerning the Northland Note, reference is made to the information under "REAL PROPERTY INVESTMENTS--The Zero Notes" and "REAL PROPERTY INVESTMENT--Brookdale and Northland Zero Notes" in the Prospectus, "REAL PROPERTY INVESTMENTS - The Zero Notes" in the March 17 Supplement, and Note 1 to Notes to Financial Statements to the Partnership's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended June 30, 1988, all of which information are included as exhibits to this annual report.
Bank of Delaware Building Loan was a first mortgage loan secured by a 17-story office building in the Wilmington central business district. The owners of The Bank of Delaware Building defaulted on the mortgage loan receivable and the Venture accounted for the transaction as an in-substance foreclosure at December 31, 1993. Accordingly, the mortgage loan receivable was reclassified to other real estate assets at its estimated fair market value as of that date, and the Venture began recording operating revenues and expenses of the building. In the third quarter of 1994, the Venture recognized a loss of $1,000,000 due to valuing The Bank of Delaware Building at the most recent estimated fair market value. Subsequently, on November 15, 1994, the Venture acquired title to The Bank of Delaware Building by a deed in lieu of foreclosure. In connection with the deed in lieu transaction, the Venture received a $350,000 cash payment plus the property's operating cash account, which reduced the loss on the transaction to approximately $380,000.
ITEM 3.