Item 2. Properties.
Industry Competition in Future Years
The paging industry and the Company's business are subject to competition from alternative forms of data communication. In addition, the Company's business is focused primarily upon the wireless telecommunications industry. Future technological advances in the wireless telecommunications industry, including digital-based cellular telephone systems, could result in new products which are competitive with the Company's products. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be adversely affected in the event of such technological advances. While the introduction of more advanced forms of telecommunications, such as the personal communication networks currently under development, may provide opportunities to the Company for the development of new products, these advanced forms of telecommunications may reduce the demand for pagers and thus the type of paging transmission systems and related software designed and sold by the Company. There can be no assurance that the NPCS market will develop or that Glenayre will be able to successfully develop new products or to provide additional enhancements to its existing products in support of this market.
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE GEMS BUSINESS
On November 10, 1992, the Company acquired the telecommunications equipment and related software business (the "GEMS Business" or "GEMS") of Glentel Inc., a Canadian corporation ("GEL"), for a combination of cash and common stock of the Company (the "Acquisition"). In connection with the Acquisition, substantially all of the GEMS Business employees, including senior management of the GEMS Business, joined the Company. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
The GEMS Business was established in Canada in 1963 by GEL to design, manufacture and market industrial and educational electronic equipment. By 1979, maturing markets and technological changes resulted in GEL entering the mobile radio telephone and paging markets. GEL expanded this business in the 1980s as a result of increasing demand for mobile telecommunications products, market share growth, introduction of new products and acquisitions.
John J. Hurley, Vice Chairman, and Ramon D. Ardizzone, President and Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Company, joined the GEMS Business in 1988. At that time the GEMS Business sales totalled approximately $27.2 million, principally in Canada. Management's initial objectives were to expand GEMS' market share in the United States and to participate in the growth in international markets. The first objective was accomplished in 1989 with the acquisition of Quintron Corporation of Quincy, Illinois, a manufacturer of radio paging transmitters and BBL Industries, Inc. ("BBL") of Atlanta, Georgia, a manufacturer of paging switches and voice messaging equipment. In 1989, GEMS' switch manufacturing operations were consolidated at its Vancouver, British Columbia facility. In 1990, the manufacturing of transmitters was consolidated at the Quincy, Illinois facility, the BBL plant was closed, and a smaller space was leased for sales, marketing, administrative, customer service, and voice-messaging engineering personnel in Atlanta, Georgia. Immediately following the restructuring, management implemented a plan to aggressively pursue the sale of wireless telecommunications equipment in international markets by adding sales personnel and offices in targeted high-growth markets. For a description of the Company's revenues with respect to domestic and international operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
PRODUCTS
Glenayre designs, manufactures, markets and services switches, transmitters, controllers and software used in wireless personal communications systems throughout the world. The Company's principal product families include: paging systems; voice messaging systems; message management systems and mobile data systems; wide-area rural radio telephone systems; and transit communication systems.
PAGING SYSTEMS
Glenayre's paging system products, accounted for approximately 71%, 72% and 70% of net sales for 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively. Major paging products include switches, transmitters, receivers, controllers and related software. Glenayre believes it has the leading market share in the United States and that it is a leading participant internationally in the paging switch, control, and transmitter market.
Paging is a method of wireless telecommunication which uses an assigned radio frequency to contact a paging subscriber anywhere within a service area. Each paging subscriber is assigned a distinct telephone number which a caller dials to activate a subscriber's pager (a pocket-sized radio receiver carried by the subscriber). Telephone calls for a subscriber are received by a paging switch. A network of transmitters, that broadcasts a signal over a specific geographic area, then receives information from the paging switch through the controller and a radio signal is sent by the transmitters via antennae to a subscriber's pager. The transmitters manufactured by Glenayre are specifically designed to simulcast, which is the transmission of the same signal over two or more transmitters on the same channel at the same time in an overlap area, resulting in superior voice and data quality and coverage area. The radio signal causes the pager to emit a beep or to vibrate and to provide the subscriber with information from the caller in the form of a voice, tone, numeric or alphanumeric message. A pager has an advantage over a landline telephone in that the pager's reception is not restricted to a single location, and has an advantage over a cellular portable telephone in that a pager is smaller, has a much longer battery life, and most importantly, is substantially less expensive to use. The principal disadvantage of traditional paging service in comparison to landline telephones or cellular portable telephones is that paging provides only one-way communication capabilities. However, many of the larger United States paging service providers are expected to introduce advanced two-way wireless messaging services (NPCS) in late 1995 and 1996 which should overcome this limitation of traditional one-way paging.
The design of a paging system is customer specific and depends on (i) the number of paging subscribers the service provider must accommodate, (ii) the operating radio frequency, (iii) the geography of the service area, (iv) the expected system growth and (v) specific features desired by the customer. Paging equipment hardware and software developed by the Company may be used with all types of paging service, including voice, tone, numeric (telephone number display) or alphanumeric messaging (words and numbers display).
Switches. The smallest Glenayre switches, the GL3000S and the GL3000ES, can serve as few as 200 subscribers and can be expanded incrementally to a capacity of 50,000 subscribers. Glenayre's large paging switches, the GL3000L and the GL3000XL, support subscriber levels from 30,000 to 1,000,000.
The Company works closely with its customers in the design of large, complex paging networks. The Company also is involved at an early stage in the development of industry wide technology standards. Glenayre is familiar with developments in paging protocol standards throughout the world. Glenayre personnel serve on a Personal Communication Industry Association ("PCIA") committee which is working on new paging protocol standards to supplement current United States paging protocol standards. Therefore, Glenayre believes that its customers' purchasing decisions are based, in large part, on the technological capabilities of such networks, and has adopted networking specifications developed by PCIA. Glenayre believes that its switches have the most advanced networking capability in the industry. This networking capability allows the interconnection of multiple switches to offer a number of wide area capabilities (such as remote billing, roaming and database backup). Glenayre believes that the advanced hardware and software features of its switches ensure high reliability and high volume call processing.
Paging switches manufactured by the Company are constructed in modular fashion, which permits expansion to accommodate growth and the addition of technological enhancements. Paging switch enhancements and upgrades also require the purchase of the Company's components and software. This results from the unique and proprietary software incorporated in Glenayre switches, which the Company believes represents a significant technological competitive advantage.
Radio Frequency ("RF") Equipment - Transmitters and Receivers. Transmitters are available in frequency ranges of 30MHz to 960MHz and in power levels of 4 watts to 500 watts. Radio link receivers are available in frequency ranges of 66MHz to 960MHz. Satellite link receivers are available for integration directly with the transmitters at both Ku- and C-band frequencies.
Depending upon frequency, antenna height, topography and power, Glenayre transmitter systems are designed to cover broadcast cells with a diameter from 3 to 100 miles. Typical simulcast systems have broadcast cells which vary from 3 to 15 miles in diameter. Glenayre transmitters are designed specifically for the high performance and reliability required for high speed simulcast networks.
Current technology allows a transmitter that is manufactured by Glenayre or by its competitors to be used with the Company's paging switches. However, within a single geographic paging network (comprised of a switch, a control system and a number of transmitters installed in a specific geography) where transmitters simulcast on a single frequency, all transmitters must be of the same make in order to avoid substantial and expensive modifications that would be necessary to assure the integrity of the paging system. The Company believes its large installed base of transmitter equipment provides it with a significant competitive advantage in selling products for system expansions to existing customers.
Controllers. The Company currently offers three controller products. The GL5000 control system is a medium-feature transmitter control system used primarily in international markets; and the QT1000 is a premier full-feature system providing automatic early notification of system variances and automatic remote adjustment capabilities to ensure that all transmitters in the system remain synchronized. Glenayre's newest control system, the GL-C2000, introduced in 1993, supports all existing digital paging formats and when coupled with the appropriate Glenayre RF hardware, will support all currently proposed "high speed" paging and messaging formats with data transmission rates from 200 to 6,400 bits per second. Glenayre is presently working closely with its customers to develop and test systems which operate at transmission rates up to 25,000 bits per second.
VOICE MESSAGING SYSTEMS
Glenayre's voice messaging products, which accounted for approximately 16% of 1994 net sales, include high speed switches and software designed to serve as the platform for a voice messaging "mailbox" or for direct voice transmission to pagers or other personal communication devices. Such products represented approximately 14% of net sales in each of the years 1993 and 1992. The MVP, a switching product designed by Glenayre exclusively for enhanced messaging systems, allows subscribers both to send and receive voice and data messages to and from other subscribers, or to receive these messages from
non-subscribers. The MVP is offered in four sizes. The MVP-E, a small starter system, is capable of supporting from 100 to 10,000 subscribers. The medium sized MVP supports 500 to 35,000 subscribers. The large MVP-MAP (Multi Application Platform) accommodates up to 50,000 subscribers. For systems requiring substantial capacity, the MVP-PCS can accommodate in excess of 200,000 subscribers. The MVP is designed to meet the reliability requirements of, and is marketed to, telecommunication service providers. The MVP has the flexibility to provide multiple services to multiple customers simultaneously. Glenayre believes there are significant opportunities to market these systems directly to businesses in the future.
In addition to its current applications, the MVP switch is presently approved by vendors of cellular and CT-2 products in several countries as a voice switching platform. The MVP, together with the Company's Constant Touch software, provides "one-number access," allowing a subscriber to direct communications to his choice of receiving devices. In addition, it combines the uses of different types of existing communication services such as paging, voice mail, cellular telephone, CT-2 and facsimile.
When a user leaves a voice mail message or facsimile in a subscriber's voice mail box, the MVP switch can automatically page the subscriber, thereby providing notification of the message. The MVP also allows a subscriber to manage telephone calls using a variety of receiving devices. With the "Meet-Me" feature, a telephone call to a subscriber can be routed into the MVP switch where it can be held while the subscriber is immediately notified through a paging device. The subscriber can then choose to accept the call through a wireline or wireless telephone and be connected immediately. Through the "Direct Call with Call Screening" feature, the MVP answers the call, and the caller is asked to record the caller's name and stay on hold while the subscriber is located through a page or telephone call. Once located, the subscriber has numerous options, including connecting with the waiting call, sending the caller to a voice mail box or another telephone number, disconnecting, or listening to the caller's voice message.
Another feature enhancement is "Find-Me," through which the MVP will call a pager, cellular phone or wireline telephone either simultaneously or in a sequence predetermined by the subscriber, to notify the subscriber of an incoming call. In addition to the subscriber's ability to determine these notification priorities, the MVP also allows a subscriber to program a daily schedule of such call destinations, whereby the MVP routes the call to the destinations defined by the subscriber based on the time and day of the week. Finally, the MVP also has integrated facsimile capabilities which can receive an incoming facsimile and notify a subscriber of receipt. The subscriber can select or preprogram the location for fax delivery, forward the fax to another subscriber, or broadcast the fax to individuals on a distribution list. The MVP provides an advanced platform as a service enhancement node for integration into an intelligent network.
OTHER PRODUCTS
Other product sales (message management systems and mobile data systems; wide-area rural radio telephone systems; and transit communication systems) accounted for approximately 4% and 6% of 1994 and 1993 net sales, respectively.
Glenayre's message management systems and mobile data systems combine its paging switch hardware with its proprietary software. Although these products comprised only a small portion of 1994 and 1993 net sales, the Company believes sales of alphanumeric messaging switches and related software will increase as paging subscribers seek expanded data services. Glenayre's GL3900S and GL3900A alphanumeric switches are fully compatible with the Company's paging switches and allow extensive data entry by as few as two to more than 200 telephone operators. Glenayre's alphanumeric messaging and mobile data system products allow an operator at a telephone answering service or at a paging or cellular provider to input, store and transmit messages containing words and numbers by utilizing a paging switch. Alphanumeric and mobile data messages can be sent by telephone, facsimile or computer and can be received by pagers, portable computers, electronic organizers, facsimile equipment and similar personal communication devices. Alphanumeric messages can be transmitted in either analog or digital formats. Due to the continuing demand for lengthier messages and the impact of such demand on scarce radio frequencies, most service providers are migrating to the more efficient, higher speed digital format. Consequently, Glenayre's sophisticated high speed switches and software are particularly well suited for alphanumeric applications. The Company believes that alphanumeric messaging will evolve from the current one-way wireless transmission to a two-way message and response system and that the Company will be a provider of such systems.
In past years, the Company has focused on wide-area mobile radio telephone systems. In 1994, the Company shifted its focus to fixed radio telephone systems to leverage the Company's extensive installed base and experience in this market segment. Glenayre provides the switches, transmitters, and fixed telephones necessary for these systems. The Company's Improved Mobile Telephone Service (IMTS) system is primarily marketed in rural areas as a cost effective alternative to a wireline system. Glenayre's technology in this market has generally been replaced in the United States by rural cellular service. Increased sales of rural radio telephone products will require the development of new markets, particularly in rural areas of
developing countries. The Company sells rural radio telephone systems in Asia, Europe, Western Canada, Latin America, and the Middle East. Wide-area rural radio telephone systems differ from cellular phone systems in that they operate at VHF or UHF radio frequencies, provide single site wide-area coverage (unlike the multiple small coverage areas needed for cellular systems), and do not have the roaming capability of cellular systems.
Glenayre's transit communication systems provide two-way on-board communications between buses or light rail trains and central dispatch monitoring stations. The system permits a control dispatcher to monitor automatically the transit vehicle for such information as engine condition, passenger count and money collected. In addition, the operator of the transit vehicle has the ability to verbally communicate, via radio, with the central dispatcher. Glenayre markets these transit communication systems primarily to municipal transit authorities in the United States, Canada and Europe on either a prime or subcontractor basis. Sales of transit communication systems are dependent upon a variety of factors, including the provision of government funding to local transportation authorities.
SERVICE AND SUPPORT
Glenayre provides service to customers on a regular basis and most customers have installation, service or extended warranty contracts with the Company. These revenue generating service activities of Glenayre accounted for approximately 9% and 7% of 1994 and 1993 net sales, respectively. The Company believes that it is essential to provide reliable service to customers in order to solidify customer relationships and to be the vendor of choice when new services or system expansions are sought by a customer. This relationship is further developed as customers come to depend upon the Company for installation, system optimization, warranty and post-warranty services.
The Company has a warranty and maintenance program for both its hardware and software products and maintains a large customer service organization, known as the Glenayre Care Group, throughout the world. Glenayre's standard warranty provides its customers with repair (at a Glenayre facility) or replacement of all defective Glenayre manufactured equipment. The warranty is valid, in the case of the majority of its transmitters, for two years and, in the case of all other products, for one year from the later of date of shipment or date of installation by a Glenayre qualified technician. The major locations of the Glenayre Care Group are Vancouver, British Columbia; Quincy, Illinois; Atlanta, Georgia; London, England; and Singapore. The Glenayre Care Group, the majority of which consist of technical specialists, maintain the Company's installed base of equipment and are equipped with an automated field service management system to provide more responsive customer service.
CUSTOMERS
Glenayre sells to a range of customers worldwide. In the United States, customers include the regional Bell operating companies, public and private radio common carriers and private carrier paging operators. Internationally, customers include public telephone and telegraph companies, as well as private telecommunication service providers. The following is a partial list of the Company's customers:
UNITED STATES Alltel Mobile Communications, Inc. A+ Communications, Inc. Airtouch Paging, Inc. American Paging, Inc. Ameritech Corporation Arch Communications Group Inc. AT&T Wireless, Inc. Bell Atlantic Mobile Systems, Inc. Dial Page, Inc. Map Mobile Communications Metrocall, Inc. Mobile Communications Corporation of America MobileMedia Paging Services Inc. Mobile Telecommunication Technologies Corp. (Mtel) Nextel Communications, Inc. OneComm Corporation Pacific Bell Mobile PacWest Telecomm, Inc. Pagemart, Inc. Paging Network, Inc. (PageNet) ProNet, Inc. Source One Wireless Tri-State Radio Corp. USA Mobile Communications, Inc.
INTERNATIONAL British Columbia Telephone Company (Canada) British Telecommunications PLC (United Kingdom) Cia Europea de Radiobusqueda, S.A. (CERSA) (Spain) China Media Development (The People's Republic of China) Goldstar Telecommunication Co. Ltd. (South Korea) Heilongjiong PTT (The People's Republic of China) Hing Tat Investment Ltd. (The People's Republic of China) Hutchison Paging Ltd. (Hong Kong) Hutchison Paging U.K. Ltd. (United Kingdom) Importaciones Electronicas Ribesa, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) Infomobile, S.A. (France) Korean Mobile Telephone Corporation (South Korea) Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corporation (Japan) Nokia Cellular Systems (Finland) Pilipino Telephone Company (Philippines) Radio Telecommunication Company (Bulgaria) Shandong PTT (The People's Republic of China) Shinawatra Computer Group (Thailand) Singapore Telecom International Private Limited (Singapore) Telechamada - Chamada de Pessoas, S.A. (Spain) World Page Company LTD (Thailand)
Sales to one customer totalled approximately 13% of 1994 net sales. Sales to two customers were each approximately 10% of 1993 net sales. The customers with whom the Company does the largest amount of business generally change from year to year. This results from the timing for development and expansion of its customers' and new customers' systems.
MARKETING AND SALES
The Company markets its products and services in the United States and internationally primarily through a direct sales force. The Company also utilizes distributors and agents to sell its products in certain countries and geographic regions to markets outside of the Company's core markets. The Company has divided the world market into three sales groups (North and South America; Europe, the Middle East, and Africa; and Asia Pacific), each of which is supervised by a sales director/vice president. Additional sales effort in the United States is provided by a sales team which is focused specifically on the voice messaging business. The Company maintains sales offices throughout the United States.
In an effort to better serve its international customers, Glenayre has established sales offices in various locations worldwide, including Manila, the Philippines; New Delhi, India; Singapore; Toronto, Canada; Vancouver, Canada; Hong Kong; Mexico City, Mexico; Milton Keynes, England; Guangzhou, China; Beijing, China; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Prague, Czech Republic. Glenayre has staffed each of these offices with either local or expatriate multilingual personnel. The Company expects to add new offices and personnel outside of the United States to meet the increasing demand for its products in international markets. Additionally, on a selective basis in certain countries and regions, Glenayre utilizes external distributors and agents. See Note 14 to the Company Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to export sales.
As part of the Company's integrated marketing and sales efforts, Glenayre encourages a philosophy of open communication between the Company and its customers. Toward that end, the Company often invites customer representatives to meet with Glenayre's engineers and marketing personnel to collaborate in the development of new and enhanced products.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS RISKS
Approximately 33% of 1994 net sales were generated in markets outside of the United States. International sales are subject to the customary risks associated with international transactions, including political risks, local laws and taxes, the potential imposition of trade or currency exchange restrictions, tariff increases, transportation delays, difficulties or delays in collecting accounts receivable, and, to a lesser extent, exchange rate fluctuations. Although a substantial portion of 1994 international sales of the Company's products and services were negotiated in U.S. dollars, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain such a high percentage of U.S. dollar denominated international sales. The Company seeks to mitigate its currency exchange fluctuation risk by entering into currency hedging transactions. The Company also acts to mitigate certain risks associated with international transactions through the purchase of political risk insurance and the use of letters of credit.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Company believes that a strong commitment to research and development is essential to the continued growth of its business. Glenayre has consistently developed innovative products and product improvements for the wireless personal communications services industry and has often been the first to bring such products to market. One of the key components of the Company's development strategy is the promotion of a close relationship between its development staff, internally with Glenayre's manufacturing and marketing personnel, and externally with Glenayre's customers. This strategy has allowed Glenayre to develop and bring to market customer-driven products in a timely manner.
The Company has extensive expertise in the technologies required to develop wireless communications systems and products. The key wireless communications technologies in which the Company's development staff has extensive experience include: digital signal processing (DSP), real-time software, high-speed digital logic, very large scale integrated circuits (VLSI), radio frequency and data network design. The Company believes that by having a research and development staff with expertise in these key areas, it is well positioned to develop enhancements for its existing products as well as the next generation of personal communication products. Investment in advanced computer-aided design tools for simulation and analysis has allowed Glenayre to reduce the time for bringing new products to market.
The majority of the Company's research and development staff are engineers or computer science professionals. Glenayre's research and development efforts are located in its Vancouver, British Columbia; Quincy, Illinois; and Atlanta, Georgia facilities. Total research and development costs for the Company accounted for approximately $16.0 million, $11.8 million and $8.7 million (pro forma) or approximately 9.3%, 8.7% and 8.7% of net sales for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
NEW PRODUCTS AND UPGRADES
During 1994, the Company introduced several significant new products and enhancements. Included were: (i) additions in UHF/VHF frequencies to the Company's line of high-speed/high power digital paging transmitters; (ii) a satellite paging receiver and network service; (iii) a RF network manager with WindowsTM user interface; (iv) advanced features for paging switches provided by software and hardware updates including high speed FLEXTM and ERMES paging protocols, higher density voice storage, Chinese character paging and a new billing protocol; (v) a low cost compact 320 MHz paging transmitter for the Korean market; (vi) improved redundancy for the complete line of paging switches; (vii) a new improved paging data distribution bridge for wireline RF simulcast networks; and (viii) link based synchronization for the GL-C2000 digital controller.
In 1993, the Company introduced several significant new products. Some of the major new products developed in 1993 for the paging market were: (i) a new line of high speed/high power digital paging transmitters; (ii) a new advanced transmitter control system, GL-C2000; (iii) integration of the transmitter control system into the paging switch; and (iv) many advanced messaging features provided by software and hardware updates including new optical disk drives, a new data interface and voice switching. Some of the significant developments in 1993 to the MVP, the voice messaging switching platform, were: (i) adoption of a new telephone signaling scheme - SS7; (ii) enhanced software that includes "One Number Access" capability; (iii) a short message interface to cellular networks; and (iv) a new advanced hardware platform.
MANUFACTURING
Glenayre currently manufactures its products at Company facilities in Quincy, Illinois and Vancouver, British Columbia. The Company's manufacturing expertise resides in assembling sub-assemblies and final systems that are configured to its customers' specifications. The components and assemblies used in the Company's products include electronic components such as resistors, capacitors, semiconductors and transistors; mechanical materials such as cabinets in which the systems are built; and peripherals, including disk drives. Of the approximately 23,000 parts listed for the Company's products, less than 2% are obtained from single source suppliers. Glenayre believes that minor design changes would allow replacement sources of supply to be used with respect to such parts. The Company ensures that all products are tested, tuned and verified prior to shipment to the customer.
The Company has adopted a "Total Quality Management" philosophy throughout all its operations. The Company has certification to the ISO 9001 international standard for quality assurance in areas including design, manufacture, assembly and service for the Quincy, Illinois; Vancouver, British Columbia; and Atlanta, Georgia facilities. ISO is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies which have united to develop internationally accepted quality systems standards so that customers and manufacturers have a system in place that provides a known quality. The standards set by ISO cover every facet of quality from management responsibility to service and delivery. Management believes that adhering to the stringent ISO 9001 procedures not only creates efficiency in its operations, but also positions Glenayre to meet the exacting standards required by its customers.
The Company utilizes Materials Resource Planning (MRP) systems for production planning in both manufacturing locations and state-of-the-art workstations for its engineering functions. A 63,000 square feet expansion to the Quincy facility and a 50,000 square feet expansion to the Vancouver facility are currently in process and are expected to be completed in 1995. Glenayre believes its manufacturing facilities, upon completion of the expansions, will be sufficient to accommodate foreseeable near-term growth in the Company's business.
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
The Company owns or licenses numerous patents used in its current operations. The Company believes that while these patents are useful to the Company, they are not critical or valuable on an individual basis, and that the collective value of the intangible property of the Company is comprised of its patents, blueprints, specifications, technical processes and cumulative employee knowledge. Although the Company attempts to protect its proprietary technology through a combination of trade secrets, patent law, non-disclosure agreements and technical measures, such protection may not preclude competitors from developing products with features similar to the Company's products. The laws of some foreign countries in which the Company sells or may sell its products, including South Korea, People's Republic of China, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Dubai, India and Brazil, do not protect the Company's proprietary rights in the products to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Although the Company believes that its products and technology do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, the Company is currently party to certain infringement claims, and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert additional infringement claims against the Company in the future. If such litigation resulted in the Company's inability to use technology, the Company might be required to expend substantial resources to develop alternative technology or to license the prior technology. There can be no assurance that the Company could successfully develop alternative technology or license the prior technology on commercially reasonable terms. The Company does not believe, however, that an adverse resolution of the pending claims would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
The Company considers its trademark "Glenayre" to be a valuable asset. The "Glenayre" trademark is protected through trademark registrations.
BACKLOG
The Company's firm backlog at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was approximately $67 million and $32 million, respectively. The Company's growth in its backlog is due to expansion of sales coverage, market growth and increased acceptance of the Company's products. The orders supporting the Company's backlog amounts consist of signed purchase orders and, in general, are expected to be shipped within six months of the respective backlog dates.
COMPETITION
The Company is a leading worldwide supplier of switches, transmitters, receivers, controllers and software used in paging, voice messaging, and message management and mobile data systems. While the services from the foregoing products represent a significant portion of the wireless personal communications systems industry today, the industry is expanding to include new services and new markets. The wireless personal communications industry includes equipment manufacturers that serve many of the same personal communications services markets served by the Company. Certain of the Company's competitors have significantly greater resources than the Company, and there can be no assurance that Glenayre will be able to compete successfully in the future. In addition, manufacturers of wireless telecommunications equipment, including those in the cellular telephone industry, certain of which are larger and have significantly greater resources than the Company, could elect to enter into the Company's markets and compete with Glenayre's products.
Competition in Glenayre's markets is based upon quality, reliability, product features and price. While equipment and systems of the type sold by Glenayre represent less than one-half of a paging service provider's total capital investment, such equipment and systems are nevertheless critical for the operation of the pager devices and the paging network. Glenayre believes that it compares favorably with its competitors due to its reputation for high quality products and service and its ability to offer complete turn-key systems customized to specifications provided by the customer.
The Company's determination of its competitive market position is based upon its knowledge of sales of products of the type sold by the Company in the segment of the wireless personal communications industry in which the Company competes, information derived from its close working relationship with large paging service providers and market information obtained from industry trade publications and sources.
UNITED STATES
The Company's believes that it has the leading market share (based on the number of units sold) of the United States market for sales of paging switches, paging transmitters, and controllers. It is the Company's belief that its leadership position with respect to the sale of paging switches in the United States substantially exceeds that of its principal competitors in this market, which are Unipage, Inc., ("Unipage"), a subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., ("Motorola"); Commonwealth Communications Industries, Ltd.; and Spectrum Communications Electronics Corp., a subsidiary of L M Ericsson Telephone Company ("Spectrum"). The Company believes that the GEMS Business captured the largest percentage of sales of paging switches serving more than 10,000 subscribers in each of the last four years.
The Company believes that its leadership position with respect to the sale of paging transmitters and controllers in the United States was shared with Motorola, the other principal United States paging transmitter and controllers manufacturer, through 1991, after which, the Company believes, sales of transmitter and controllers products by the Company exceeded sales of such products by Motorola. The Company believes that Motorola remains a substantial competitor with a significant market share in this market. Other competitors in this market include L M Ericsson Telephone Company ("Ericsson") and smaller manufacturers that primarily serve small local paging service providers.
For sales of voice messaging products, the Company competes in the United States and internationally primarily with Boston Technology, Inc., Octel Communications Corporation, Comverse Technologies, Inc., Unisys Corporation and Centigram Communications Corporation.
INTERNATIONAL
The Company believes that it is a leading participant in markets outside of the United States in the sale of paging switches, paging transmitters, and controllers (based on the number of units sold). The Company believes that it sold the most paging switches outside of the United States during each of the years 1994, 1993, and 1992, exceeding sales by each of its two principal competitors in this market, Motorola and Ericsson. It is the Company's belief that prior to 1992, Motorola held the largest market share in the international market for paging switches, with the Company holding approximately a market share slightly less than that of Motorola. From 1992 to present, the Company believes that sales of paging switches have been slightly more than sales of such products by Motorola. Spectrum and Telelink Corporation are also competitors of the Company in the international paging switch market.
The Company believes that the Company and Motorola have the largest and approximately equivalent shares of the international paging transmitter and controller market. Ericsson also is a significant competitor in this market with what the Company believes to be a substantially smaller share of the market than either of Motorola or the Company.
The Company competes for sales of certain components of wide-area rural radio telephone systems with companies such as Motorola, Telemobile, Inc., Exicom Corporation, Tait Inc., and Carlson Communications.
For sales of bus transit communication systems, the Company's primary competitors include ElectroComm Communications Systems, L.P., E-Systems, Inc., and Harris Corporation; rail communication competitors include Telephonics Corporation and SES Co., Inc.
REGULATION
Many of the Company's products operate on radio frequencies. Radio frequency transmissions and emissions, and certain equipment used in connection therewith, are regulated in the United States, Canada and internationally. Regulatory approvals generally must be obtained by the Company in connection with the manufacture and sale of such products and by the customers of the Company to operate the Company's products. The enactment by federal, state, local or governments of other countries of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing regulations could affect the market for the Company's products.
The Company does not anticipate that regulatory changes will have a material negative impact on the Company. However, there can be no assurance that the trend toward deregulation and current regulatory developments favorable to the promotion of new and expanded personal communications services will continue or that future regulatory changes will have a positive impact on the Company.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Effective December 31, 1992 and July 6, 1993, the Company adopted formal plans to dispose of its oil and gas pipeline construction and real estate operations, respectively, in order to focus exclusively on the telecommunications industry. In October 1993, the Company sold its interest in the oil and gas pipeline construction operation. The sales of the Company's remaining parcels of undeveloped real estate were completed as of June 30, 1994. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
EMPLOYEES
At December 31, 1994, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 1,100 persons. The Company believes its employee relations to be good.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Executive officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors. The names, ages and positions of the executive officers of the Company are as follows:
Gerald B. Cramer has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company since 1986. Mr. Cramer has also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Cramer Rosenthal McGlynn, Inc. ("CRM"), an investment management firm, since 1973.
Clarke H. Bailey has served as Vice Chairman of the Company since November 1992, Chairman of the Executive Committee since March 1994 and as a director of the Company since December 1990. Mr. Bailey was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from December 1990 to March 1994, and Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Company from May 1994 until December 1994. Mr. Bailey has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of United Acquisition Company and its parent, United Gas Holding Corporation since February 1995. Mr. Bailey served in a variety of capacities for the investment banking firm of Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. from March 1984 to December 1990, most recently as Managing Director and head of the Principal Investments Department.
John J. Hurley has served as Vice Chairman of the Company since December 1994 and as a director of the Company since November 1992. Mr. Hurley was President of the Company from November 1992 until December 1994 and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from November 1992 until March 1994. Mr. Hurley was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from March 1994 until May 1994. Mr. Hurley was President of GEL from July 1988 to November 1992 and a director of GEL from July 1988 to June 1993. From 1985 to 1988, Mr. Hurley was Chief Operating Officer of Antenna Specialists Company, a communications antenna manufacturer. Mr. Hurley was employed by General Electric Company from 1966 to 1985, where he held several positions, including General Manager of General Electric Company's cellular business.
Ramon D. Ardizzone has served as President and Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Company since December 1994 and as a director of the Company since November 1992. Mr. Ardizzone was Chief Operating Officer of the Company from June 1994 until December 1994 and Acting Chief Operating Officer of the Company from May 1994 until June 1994. Mr. Ardizzone served as Executive Vice President of the Company from November 1992 until December 1994. Mr. Ardizzone served as Executive Vice President of the Company in charge of Sales and Marketing from November 1992 until May 1994. Mr. Ardizzone served as Executive Vice President - Sales and Marketing of GEL from August 1988 to November 1992. From 1986 to 1988, Mr. Ardizzone was President of Aerotron, Inc., a land-mobile radio manufacturing company. From 1956 to 1986, Mr. Ardizzone worked for General Electric Company in various management positions.
Gary B. Smith has served as Executive Vice President of the Company since September 1994 and General Manager, Wireless Messaging Group since February 1995. Mr. Smith served as Chief Technical Officer of the Company from September 1994 until February 1995. From 1983 to September 1994, Mr. Smith served in various engineering management positions with the Company or GEMS.
Kenneth C. Thompson has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Voice and Data Technologies Group of the Company since February 1995. From December 1990 to February 1995, Mr. Thompson served in various marketing management positions with the Company or GEMS. From December 1987 to December 1990, Mr. Thompson served as the General Manager of a division of Science Application International Corporation.
Russ K. Allen has served as Executive Vice President, Field Sales and Support Operations of the Company since February 1995. From 1985 to February 1995, Mr. Allen served in various sales management positions with the Company or GEMS.
Stanley Ciepcielinski has served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration Operations of the Company since February 1995, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since January 1993, and as Secretary and Treasurer since April 1993. Mr. Ciepcielinski served as the Director of Finance for the Transformer Business Unit of Square D Company in Charlotte, North Carolina from August 1989 to December 1992. From December 1984 through July 1989, Mr. Ciepcielinski served as Corporate Accounting Manager of Alcatel, Inc.
Beverly W. Cox has served as Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since February 1995. From November 1993 to February 1995, Ms. Cox served as Corporate Director - Human Resources with the Company. Ms. Cox served in various Human Resource management positions with Cadmus Communications, Inc. of Richmond, Virginia from July 1989 to November 1993, most recently as Vice President - Human Resources.
Billy C. Layton has served as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company since November 1992. From 1990 to November 1992, Mr. Layton served in various accounting management positions with GEMS.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's principal facilities:
In addition to its sales offices in Atlanta, Georgia; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Quincy, Illinois listed above, the Company also maintains sales offices throughout the United States and internationally. See "Business--Marketing and Sales." The Company is currently in the process of expanding the manufacturing space at both its Quincy, Illinois and Vancouver, British Columbia facilities. The 63,000 square feet Quincy expansion and the 50,000 square feet Vancouver expansion are expected to be completed in the third quarter 1995 and second quarter 1995, respectively. See Note 6 to the Company Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes that the existing principal offices and manufacturing facilities (after considering the aforementioned expansion) are suitable and adequate for the Company's business and to accommodate foreseeable near-term growth in its business.
ITEM 3.