Item 2. PROPERTIES); 2) purchases from other utilities and from QFs and IPPFs; 3) demand-side options; and 4) new generation alternatives, including repowering Fort St. Vrain.
Peak Load
During 1995, net firm system peak demand for the Company and Cheyenne is estimated to be 4,112 Mw, assuming normal weather conditions. Net dependable system capacity is projected to be, after accounting for 53 Mw of demand-side options, 4,912 Mw (generating capacity of 3,186 Mw and firm purchases of 1,726 Mw) at the time of the anticipated 1995 system peak (summer season), resulting in a reserve margin of approximately 19%.
The net firm system peak demand for the Company and Cheyenne for each of the last five years was as follows:
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994
Net Firm System Peak Demand* (Mw) 3,606 3,568 3,757 3,869 3,972
______________
* Excludes station housepower, nonfirm electric furnace load and controlled interruptible loads (of which approximately 145 Mw, 162 Mw, 156 Mw, 164 Mw and 160 Mw in the years 1990-1994, respectively, was not interrupted at the time of the system peak).
The net firm system peak demand for the Company and Cheyenne for the years 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994 occurred in the summer. The net firm system peak demand for 1990 occurred in the winter. The net firm system peak demand for 1994, which occurred on August 26, 1994, was 3,972 Mw. At that time, the net dependable system capacity totaled 4,980 Mw (generating capacity of 3,186 Mw, together with firm purchases of 1,794 Mw), which represented a reserve margin of approximately 25%. Net dependable system capacity is the maximum net capacity available from both Company-owned generating units and purchase power contracts to meet the net firm system peak demand.
Purchased Power
The Company purchases capacity and energy from various regional utilities as well as QFs and an IPPF in order to meet the energy needs of its customers. Capacity, typically measured in Kws or Mws, is the measure of the rate at which a particular generating source produces electricity. Energy, typically measured in Kwhs or Mwhs, is a measure of the amount of electricity produced from a particular generating source over a period of time. Purchase power contracts typically provide for a charge for the capacity from a particular generating source, together with a charge for the associated energy actually purchased from such generating source. The Company and Cheyenne have contracted with the following sources for the firm purchase of capacity and energy at the time of the anticipated summer 1995 net firm system peak demand through the expiration of the contracts:
See Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies-Purchase Requirements in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA for information regarding the Company's financial commitments under these contracts. See Transmission and Distribution Property in Item 2. PROPERTIES for a discussion of the Company's interconnections with these sources.
Based on present estimates, the Company and Cheyenne will purchase approximately 34% of the total electric system energy input for 1995, compared to approximately 37% in 1994. In addition, based on the capacity associated with the purchase power contracts described above, approximately 35% of the total net dependable system capacity for the summer 1995 net firm system peak demand for the Company and Cheyenne will be provided by purchased power, compared to approximately 36% in 1994. This decrease is due to the expiration of a short-term purchase contract with Public Service Company of New Mexico for 75 Mw. This capacity is no longer required due to the additional 340 Mw of capacity provided by new QFs in 1994.
In accordance with the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA"), the Company is obligated to purchase at "avoided cost" capacity and energy from QFs. The Company has had tariffs in effect since 1984 for these purchases.
In December 1987, the CPUC issued an order imposing a moratorium during which the Company was no longer required to continue to execute additional QF contracts due to the fact that excess generating capacity would be created if additional contracts were executed. Although a comprehensive QF bidding procedure was adopted in 1988 which allowed the Company to purchase the most competitively priced QF power, all of the QF capacity purchased by the Company, including approximately 37 Mw of additional capacity scheduled to come on line in the future, is being purchased under contracts entered into prior to the adoption of such procedure. Based on current CPUC criteria, QFs could provide up to 20% of the Company's net firm system peak load. In 1994, approximately 15% of the Company's summer net firm system peak demand was contracted to be provided by QFs.
In addition to long-term and QF purchases, the Company also made short- term and non-firm purchases throughout the year to replace generation from Company owned units which were unavailable due to maintenance and unplanned outages, to provide the Company's reserve obligation to the Pool, to obtain energy at a lower cost than that which could be produced by higher-cost resource options, including Company owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts, and for various other operating requirements. Short-term and non-firm purchases accounted for approximately 3% of the Company's total energy requirement in 1994.
Based on current projections, the Company expects that purchased capacity will continue to meet a significant portion of system requirements at least for the remainder of the 1990s.
Purchases of capacity and energy do not have a significant effect on the earnings of the Company because the costs thereof, without mark-up, are billed to customers through base rates, the ECA and the QFCCA. The CPUC, however, has established a schedule for reviewing the ECA (see Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies-Regulatory Matters in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA). Such purchases neither require the Company to make an investment nor afford the Company an opportunity to earn a return.
The Company is a member of the Pool which is composed of members each of which owns and/or operates electric generation and/or transmission systems which are interconnected to one or more other member systems. The objective of the Pool is to provide capacity which is categorized as 1) immediately accessible; 2) accessible within ten minutes; and 3) accessible within twelve hours, as required. As a result of membership in the Pool, the Company can supply and protect its electric system with less aggregate operating reserve capacity than otherwise would be necessary; emergency conditions can be met with less likelihood of curtailment or impairment of electric service; and generation and transmission facilities and interconnections can be used more efficiently and economically.
Construction Program
At December 31, 1994, the Company and its subsidiaries estimated the cost of their construction program, including AFDC, in 1995, 1996 and 1997 to be $323 million, $347 million and $316 million, respectively (see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS). Included in these estimated costs is $117 million associated with the conversion of Fort St. Vrain to a 471 Mw gas fired combined cycle steam plant. The total conversion project cost is approximately $231 million. A CPCN for the conversion of Fort St. Vrain was approved by the CPUC in July 1994 (see Note 2. Fort St. Vrain in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA).
Fort St. Vrain
See Note 2. Fort St. Vrain in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Electric Fuel Supply
The following table presents the delivered cost per million Btu of each category of fuel consumed by the system for electric generation of the Company and its utility subsidiaries during the years indicated, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the weighted average cost of all fuels during such years:
Coal
The Company's primary fuel for its steam electric generating stations is low-sulfur western coal. The Company's coal requirements are purchased primarily under seven long-term contracts with suppliers operating in Colorado and Wyoming, the largest of which is with Cyprus/Amax Coal Company, which operates the Belle Ayr and Eagle Butte Mines near Gillette, Wyoming and the Foidel Creek and Empire Energy mines in northwestern Colorado.
Long-term contracts presently in existence provide for a substantial portion of future annual coal requirements for existing plants through 1997. Any shortfall will be provided by purchases on the spot market. During the year ended December 31, 1994, the Company's coal requirements for existing plants were approximately 8,502,170 tons, a substantial portion of which was supplied pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Coal supply inventories at December 31, 1994 were approximately 52 days usage, based on the average peak burn rate for all the Company's coal-fired plants.
The following table is a synopsis of the basic supply provisions of the existing long-term contracts, which provide a minimum delivery of approximately 92 million tons of low-sulfur coal over their remaining life (see Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies-Purchase requirements in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ).
Each coal contract contains adjustment clauses which permit periodic price increases or decreases. See Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies-Purchase requirements in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA for information regarding the Company's financial commitments under these contracts as well as coal transportation contracts.
Natural Gas and Fuel Oil
The Company uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers. Natural gas used in steam heat production facilities and as boiler fuel in the Company's Denver area generating stations and Comanche is purchased primarily from North American Resources Co. pursuant to a Gas Sales Agreement that went into effect for a 12-month period beginning October 1, 1994. The agreement with North American Resources Co. provides for firm supplies ranging from 10,000 MMbtu per day (during the seven month summer season) to 20,000 MMbtu per day (during the five month heating season), with varying daily purchase obligations by the Company. Requirements above these levels are secured by purchasing competitively priced gas from other suppliers on an as-needed basis. Natural gas supplies for the Valmont and Ft. Lupton power plants are purchased from various suppliers on an as-needed basis.
Natural Gas Operations
During the period 1990-1994, the PSCo Gas Companies experienced growth in the number of commercial and residential customers ranging from 1.3% to 2.8% annually. Since 1990, commercial and residential gas volumes sold have averaged 150.6 Bcf annually, while industrial volumes sold have declined from 3.6 Bcf in 1990 to 0.1 Bcf in 1994. The growth of commercial and residential sales has been moderate due primarily to economic conditions in Colorado and Wyoming. Industrial sales have declined primarily because a majority of industrial customers have switched to purchasing gas directly from suppliers. In most cases, the PSCo Gas Companies transport gas from the suppliers to such industrial customers through the PSCo Gas Companies' transmission and distribution facilities. Fees for this transportation service, which are paid by these industrial customers, substantially offset the effect on net income of the revenue loss from decreased sales of gas to these industrial customers. During 1994, transportation services of the PSCo Gas Companies generated revenues of $23.5 million compared to $23.2 million in 1993 and $20.6 million in 1992.
Gas Supply
The PSCo Gas Companies have attempted to maintain low cost, reliable gas supplies by optimizing the balance between long- and short-term gas purchase contracts. During 1994, the PSCo Gas Companies purchased 132.6 Bcf (at 14.65 pounds per square inch) from 87 suppliers, including the following major suppliers: Interstate (44.7 Bcf); Associated Natural Gas, Inc. (8.9 Bcf); KN Energy and affiliates (7.2 Bcf); and Western Gas Resources, Inc. (5.2 Bcf). In 1994, the average delivered cost per Mcf for the PSCo Gas Companies was $2.86 compared to $2.82 per Mcf in 1993 and $2.72 per Mcf in 1992.
As indicated above, Interstate was the primary supplier to the PSCo Gas Companies in 1994. During 1993, the PSCo Gas Companies entered into two non- regulated supply agreements, as allowed under FERC Order 636. Under the agreement with Interstate, which covers the period from October 1, 1993 through September 30, 1996, the annual quantities to be purchased declined from 44 Bcf in the first year to 33 Bcf in the second year and will decline to 22 Bcf in the third year. Under the agreement with KN Gas Supply Services, Inc., which covers the period from September 1, 1993 through August 31, 1996, the annual quantities to be purchased are fixed at 4 Bcf.
This continued purchase of gas quantities from Interstate and KN Gas Supply Services, Inc. will eliminate any Gas Supply Realignment costs otherwise applicable under FERC Order 636. See Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies-Purchase requirements in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA for information regarding the Company's financial commitments under these contracts.
Young Storage
Young Storage, a partnership among Young Gas Storage Company and CIG Gas Storage Company, each 47.5% general partners, and The City of Colorado Springs Department of Public Utilities ("Colorado Springs"), a limited partner, is converting a depleted natural gas field into an underground natural gas storage facility at a cost of approximately $45 million. The facility, when fully developed by 1998, will have a maximum working gas capacity of 5.3 Bcf and a maximum daily deliverability of 200,000 Mcf. Commercial operations are expected to begin by mid-1995. On September 13, 1993, the Company signed a thirty year contract with Young Storage for natural gas storage services with a maximum available capacity of 4.77 Bcf and a maximum daily injection/withdrawal capacity of 180,000 Mcf per day. The remainder of the storage capacity has been contracted by Colorado Springs. Young Storage will be subject to FERC regulation.
In December 1994, the Board of Directors of the Company approved exercising the option to acquire Young Gas Storage Company's 47.5% general partnership interest in Young Storage pursuant to the Company's Option For Purchase and Sale of the Young Gas Storage Company dated August 31, 1993. The Company expects to exercise this option during the first quarter of 1995 resulting in an investment of approximately $6.5 million.
WGI
WGI is engaged in transporting gas to Cheyenne, Wyoming via a thirteen mile connecting pipeline between Chalk Bluffs, Colorado and Cheyenne, Wyoming. Gas transportation volumes were approximately 1.7 Bcf for 1994.
WGT
WGT holds a one-third interest ($3.4 million) in the TransColorado Project. The TransColorado Project is a partnership of WGT and subsidiaries of KN Energy and Questar Pipeline Company for developing a pipeline to transport natural gas out of western Colorado and the Rocky Mountain Region into major western and midwestern markets. The TransColorado Project has been designed and engineered for a 300 mile pipeline capable of transporting 300 MMcf per day. The partnership is currently marketing the transportation service to producers in western Colorado and to marketers and local distribution companies in an effort to gain firm contracts to support the project. FERC approval was received in October 1994. Construction of the pipeline is scheduled to begin during 1996, depending upon the success of the marketing efforts. The Company is currently evaluating the possible divestiture of its interest in WGT.
WGG
WGG owned and operated natural gas gathering and processing facilities in Southern Colorado. On August 30, 1994, the Company sold all of its outstanding common stock of WGG (see Note 3. Divestiture of Nonutility Assets in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA).
Fuelco
Fuelco has been engaged principally in the exploration for, and the development and production of, natural gas and crude oil. Fuelco also marketed and brokered natural gas to re-marketers and directly to end users. As part of the Company's strategy to focus its efforts on its core electric and gas businesses, during 1994 and 1993, the Company disposed of certain assets related to the Company's investment in Fuelco and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Synhytech. The Company is re-evaluating its alternatives related
to the disposition of the remaining assets (see Note 3. Divestiture of Nonutility Assets in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA).
Regulation and Rates
The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of securities. Cheyenne is subject to the jurisdiction of the WPSC. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the DOE through the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations and accounting practices and policies. The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the decommissioning of Fort St. Vrain. Although the Company is a "holding company" under the PUHCA, it has filed an annual exemption statement pursuant to Rule 2 of the SEC under that Act and is, therefore, exempt from all of the provisions of such Act and the Rules thereunder, except Section 9(a)(2) thereof. Such exemption is subject to termination under Rule 6 of PUHCA. The Company holds a FERC certificate which allows it to transport natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the provisions of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and FERC Order Nos. 436 and 500 without the Company becoming subject to full FERC jurisdiction. WGI holds a FERC certificate which allows it to transport natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the provisions of the Natural Gas Act. WGI is subject to FERC jurisdiction.
State Regulation
CPUC
The CPUC consists of three full-time members appointed by the Governor and approved by the Colorado Senate. Only two members may be from the same political party.
Electric and Gas Adjustment Clauses
The Company's ECA mechanism was revised and a new QFCCA mechanism was implemented on December 1, 1993, along with the base rate changes resulting from the 1993 rate case (see "1993 Rate Case"). Under the revised ECA, fuel used for generation and purchased energy costs from utilities, QFs and IPPFs (excluding all purchased capacity costs) to serve retail customers, are recoverable. Purchased capacity costs are recovered as a component of base rates, except as described below. The ECA rate is revised annually on October 1 and whenever total costs recoverable through the ECA change by $0.001 per kilowatt hour or more. Recovered energy costs are compared with actual costs on a monthly basis and differences, including interest, are deferred. The balance in the deferred account on June 30 of each year (including interest if the balance is negative) is reflected in the ECA over a 12 month period commencing October 1 of such year. Under the QFCCA, all purchased capacity costs from new QF projects, not otherwise reflected in base rates, are recoverable similar to the ECA. While the CPUC approved the QFCCA, recovery of such costs may be subject to an earnings test, which has not yet been defined by the CPUC. The OCC has proposed an annual earnings test that may result in a reduction of QFCCA recoveries to the extent the Company's earnings are in excess of its 11% authorized rate of return on regulated common equity granted in the 1993 rate case. Hearings regarding this matter are scheduled for April 1995.
The Company, through its GCA, is allowed to recover the difference between its actual costs of purchased gas and the amount of these costs recovered under its base rates. The GCA rate is revised annually on October 1 and as needed, to coincide with supplier rate changes. Purchased gas costs and revenues received to recover such gas costs are compared on a monthly
basis and differences, including interest, are deferred. The balance in the deferred account on June 30 of each year (including interest if the balance is negative) is reflected in the GCA over a 12 month period commencing October 1 of such year.
The Company and Cheyenne are required to file applications with their respective state regulatory commissions for approval of adjustment mechanisms in advance of the proposed effective date. The applications must be acted upon before becoming effective. In addition, the CPUC holds hearings to review the Company's adjustments made during preceding time periods, and the Company is required to file quarterly reports on matters relevant to the adjustments.
The CPUC held a prehearing conference on May 24, 1994 for the purpose of establishing a schedule for reviewing the justness and reasonableness of GCA and ECA mechanisms used by gas and electric utilities within its jurisdiction resulting in the opening of an investigatory docket. Open hearings were held in December 1994. The OCC and the CPUC staff are recommending the elimination of these cost adjustment mechanisms. The Company is in opposition to the elimination of these cost adjustment mechanisms and has filed initial comments, as well as responded to the comments filed by the other parties. On February 6-7, 1995, as part of an open hearing, the CPUC determined that proceeding with a generic ECA rulemaking docket was not appropriate. However, the Company is required to make an individual filing with the CPUC related to its ECA by September 1, 1995 to assess whether the ECA should be maintained in its present form, altered or eliminated. Additionally, the CPUC preliminarily determined that the GCA will continue under current practices. The CPUC staff will hold informal roundtable discussions for the purpose of clarifying the review procedures for the GCA.
Incentive Regulation and Demand Side Management
The Company, in collaborative process with public interest groups, consumers and industry, has developed DSM programs (programs designed to reduce peak electricity demand, shift on-peak demand to off-peak hours and provide for more efficient operation of the electric generation system), including incentive and cost recovery mechanisms. On May 5, 1993, the CPUC approved the programs along with a schedule to be implemented over a three- year period. Effective July 1, 1993, the Company placed into effect a DSMCA clause which permits it to recover deferred DSM costs over seven years while non-labor incremental expenses, carrying costs associated with deferred DSM costs and certain incentives associated with the approved DSM programs are recovered on an annual basis.
Under a separate CPUC order issued in December 1992, the Company has implemented a Low-Income Energy Assistance Program. The costs of this energy conservation and weatherization program for low-income customers are recoverable through the DSMCA.
In addition, on June 8, 1994, the CPUC approved the recovery of certain "energy efficiency credits" from retail jurisdiction customers through the DSMCA (see Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies - Regulatory Matters in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA).
The CPUC has opened a separate docket to investigate issues relating to the adoption and implementation of incentive regulation, which includes the concept of decoupling the Company's earnings from sales, and additional DSM incentives. On February 10, 1994, the parties to this docket filed a unanimous stipulation and settlement agreement with the CPUC. Provisions of the stipulation include, among other things, retaining the cost recovery component of the DSMCA through December 31, 1998, modifying slightly the DSM
incentive mechanism for 1994 and 1995 and forming a technical working group to study and analyze various alternative annual revenue reconciliation mechanisms and incentive mechanisms for 1996 through 1998, which would replace existing DSM incentives until another mechanism or regulatory approach is approved by the CPUC. The stipulation agreement, which includes a procedural schedule to review the results of all studies and simulations over the next year, was approved by the CPUC on June 16, 1994. The technical working group will present to the CPUC a detailed analysis demonstrating the effect of the various proposed mechanisms by the end of the first quarter of 1995.
1993 Rate Case
On November 26, 1993, the CPUC issued its final written decision regarding the Company's 1993 rate case, authorizing the Company to earn a return on regulated common equity of 11% and an annual rate of return on regulated rate base of 9.4%, lowering the Company's annual base rate revenue requirement by approximately $5.2 million (a $13.1 million electric revenue decrease partially offset by a $7.1 million gas revenue increase and a $0.8 million steam revenue increase). The new rates became effective December 1, 1993. As part of the final decision, the CPUC adopted the following significant positions:
. the rejection of the Company's proposed use of a fully forecasted test year in the establishment of revenue requirements in favor of an historical test year ended September 30, 1992,
. the adoption of full income tax normalization with a 13-year amortization of prior flow-through amounts currently reflected as a regulatory asset on the balance sheet, and
. continued inclusion in rate base of the Pawnee 2 engineering costs ($18 million) and the investment in Southeast Water Rights ($28 million), but with an allowed rate of return on such assets based on the Company's weighted cost of debt and preferred stock.
The OCC filed in Denver District Court an appeal of the CPUC's decision. The OCC has claimed that accounting related to a specific income tax issue results in the overcollection of costs from ratepayers. The Company is in opposition to the appeal. The Company believes that the resolution of this appeal will not have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
On August 1, 1994, the Company filed its Phase II testimony. The Phase II proceedings will address cost allocation issues and specific rate changes for the various customer classes based on the results of the Phase I hearings and decision that became effective December 1, 1993. A final CPUC decision on the Phase II proceedings is expected in late 1995.
IRP - Electric
On October 1, 1993, the Company filed its first IRP pursuant to the Electric Integrated Resource Planning Rules of the CPUC. The Company's IRP describes the mix of resources to be utilized and/or acquired by the Company for the following three years, including the repowering of Fort St. Vrain as a gas fired combined cycle steam plant (see Note 2. Fort St. Vrain in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA). In addition, certain DSM measures have been identified and described which are intended to reduce the amount of additional capacity required to be supplied by the Company in the future. Hearings regarding the Company's and other electric utilities' specific IRPs were held before the CPUC in April 1994 and an interim order
approving the Company's IRP was issued on June 10, 1994. The final order has not yet been received; however, no changes are expected to result from the final order. The Company's next IRP is scheduled to be filed with the CPUC on or about July 1, 1996.
IRP - Gas
In December 1992, the CPUC established a separate docket to consider the need for a gas IRP. The CPUC has held several pre-hearing conferences and has determined to conduct roundtable discussions to explore the impacts of the EPAct and the mandates in the EPAct regarding the consideration by state regulatory agencies of the adoption of standards for gas integrated resource planning and conservation incentives, as well as the impact on small businesses of adopting these standards. These proceedings have been completed and the CPUC determined there was no need to establish a gas IRP in Colorado.
WPSC
On July 31, 1992, Cheyenne filed a rate case application with the WPSC. On December 17, 1992, the WPSC issued an order approving a Settlement Agreement reached between Cheyenne and the Consumer Representative Staff of the WPSC. The Settlement Agreement provided for a return on equity of 11.66% which, in addition to new rates, became effective January 1, 1993.
In June 1993, Cheyenne filed gas and electric IRPs with the WPSC pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. The WPSC has not formally acted on these filings.
The WPSC has approved adjustment mechanisms for Cheyenne which are similar to the Company's ECA and GCA.
Environmental Matters
See Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental Issues in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA for a discussion of the impact on the Company of environmental site clean-up, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other environmental matters not discussed below.
For the years 1995, 1996 and 1997, the estimated expenditures for environmental control facilities are $11.3 million, $18.2 million and $26.9 million, respectively. These figures include estimated expenditures to install SO2 and NOx reduction equipment for the years 1995, 1996 and 1997 of $4.7 million, $14.1 million and $20.3 million, respectively.
The Metro Denver Brown Cloud II Study, designed to investigate the formation of secondary particulates in the Denver metropolitan area, began in July 1990 and the results were released in December 1993. The study was inconclusive and did not offer any policy recommendations. As a result, the study will not impact the Company's current programs to reduce SO2 and NOx emissions. However, the Metro area brown cloud continues to be of concern, which may require the Company to participate in a Metro Area Brown Cloud III Study.
The Company continues to research and implement various SO2 and NOx emissions reduction projects, including two CCT3 projects. The CCT3 projects are part of a larger DOE Clean Coal Program, which co-funds developing technologies aimed at more efficient and environmentally acceptable methods of burning coal. Research and implementation continues on the two CCT3 projects, which involve Arapahoe Unit 4 and Cherokee Unit 3. Testing is expected to be completed at both units in late 1995.
The Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area Reasonable Attribution Study, which is designed to ascertain the contribution of various emission sources to visibility impairment in the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area began in 1994. The Company is a participant in the Hayden and Craig generating stations, in the nearby Yampa Valley. Depending upon the outcome of the study, the participants may need to install emissions control equipment. However, the type and extent of equipment necessary will not be determined until after the conclusion of the study.
Installation of a fabric filter dust collector at Pawnee, which was accelerated as a result of a Consent Decree between the Company, the DOJ, the EPA and the State of Colorado, was completed in December 1994. The cost of installing this equipment was approximately $41.6 million.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended, and the Colorado Water Quality Control Act and regulations issued thereunder, the Company receives NPDES permits to discharge effluents into various streams and waters of the State of Colorado for each of its generating stations. These permits, which have a five-year life, are issued by the CWQCD, but are subject to review by the EPA. The Company believes it is presently in compliance with such discharge permits.
Renewed wastewater discharge permits have been issued for: 1) Fort St. Vrain, effective April 1, 1993; 2) Cherokee, effective July 1, 1994; 3) Zuni, effective August 1, 1993; 4) Hayden, effective August 1, 1994; 5) Valmont, effective October 1, 1994; 6) Arapahoe, effective December 1, 1994 and 7) Cameo, effective December 1, 1994. A permit renewal application was submitted for the Comanche generating station prior to the expiration of its existing permit. All discharge permits that are not renewed by the CWQCD prior to their expiration date automatically receive an administrative extension pending the issuance of a final permit.
Environmental regulations at the Federal, state and local levels, including the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, some of which are discussed in Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental Issues in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA, are expected to have a continuing impact on the Company's operations. The Company continues to strive to achieve compliance with all environmental regulations currently applicable to its operations. However, it is not possible at this time to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to environmental regulations or, generally, what effect future laws or regulations may have upon the Company's operations.
Competition
Industry Outlook
During 1994, unprecedented change occurred in the electric utility industry nationwide, furthering the development of a competitive environment. In general, the economics of the electric generation business have fundamentally changed with open transmission access and the increased availability of electric supply alternatives. Such alternatives will ultimately serve to lower customer prices, particularly in areas where only higher cost energy is currently provided. Customer demands for lower prices and supplier choices, coupled with the availability of alternative supplies (IPPFs, QFs, EWGs and power marketers), have created significant pressure for open access to the utility transmission grid and the creation of a commodity market for bulk electric supply. The EPAct directly addressed this issue by giving FERC the authority to require utilities to provide non-discriminatory open access to the transmission grid for purposes of providing wholesale
customers with direct access. Additionally, an increasing number of states have recently begun to evaluate or pursue regulatory reform in an effort to proactively respond to this changing business environment and address the issue of retail wheeling.
The presence of competition and the associated pressure on prices may ultimately lead to the unbundling of products and services similar to what has evolved in the natural gas industry. The concept of a vertically integrated utility, coupled with current regulatory practices, remain increasingly incongruent with the economic forces shaping the industry. Today's market view of the future envisions an unbundled electric utility industry consisting of at least four major business segments: energy supply, transmission, distribution and energy services- each having a different driving force.
State Regulatory Environment
Colorado law permits the CPUC to authorize rates negotiated with individual electric and gas customers which have threatened to discontinue using the services of the Company, so long as the CPUC finds that such authorization 1) in the case of electric rates, will not affect adversely the Company's remaining customers and 2) in the case of gas rates, will not affect the Company's remaining customers as adversely as would the alternative. In response to the increasingly competitive operating environment for utilities, the regulatory climate also is changing. Currently, the Company is participating in several CPUC dockets that address this change, and it is in the process of investigating various incentive/performance-based alternative forms of regulation. However, the Company believes it will continue to be subject to rate regulation that will allow for the recovery of all of its deferred costs (see Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Business and Regulation - Regulatory Assets and Liabilities and Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies - Regulatory Matters in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA).
Electric
The wholesale electric business faces increasing competition in the supply of bulk power due to provisions of the EPAct and Federal and state initiatives with respect to providing open access to utility transmission systems. The Company does not anticipate that these provisions will have a material impact on its operations in the near-term. For 1994, the Company's wholesale revenues totaled approximately 9% of total electric revenues. A substantial portion of these revenues related to firm sales contracts, which are expected to continue at current levels for a minimum of 8 years. In addition, since 1992, the Company has had a FERC-approved transmission tariff, which provides for open access, with certain limitations. During 1994, the Company was notified by one wholesale customer of its intent to reduce future firm and peaking power purchases in accordance with current contractual arrangements. This customer is seeking a CPCN to construct its own generation facilities to serve its customers' needs. The Company has proposed alternative power supply arrangements for such customer's consideration.
Today, the retail electric business faces increasing competition from industrial and large commercial customers who have the ability to own or operate facilities to generate their own electric energy requirements. In addition, customers may have the option of substituting fuels, such as natural gas for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes rather than electric energy, or of relocating their facilities to a lower cost environment. While the Company faces these challenges, it believes its rates are competitive with currently available alternatives. The Company is taking actions to lower operating costs and is working with its customers to analyze the feasibility of various options, including energy efficiency, load management and co-
generation in order to better position the Company to more effectively operate in a competitive environment.
Natural Gas
Historically, gas utilities have competed with suppliers of electricity and fuel oil, as well as, to a lesser extent, propane, for sales of gas to customers for heating and/or cooling purposes. In the 1980s, industrial and large commercial customers began to "by-pass" the local gas utility through the construction of interconnections directly with, and the purchase of gas directly from, interstate pipelines, thereby avoiding the additional charges added by the local gas utility. In addition, industrial and commercial customers sought to purchase less expensive supplies of natural gas directly from producers, marketers and brokers. The Company has been actively involved for several years in providing transportation services for those industrial and large commercial customers who chose to purchase gas directly from suppliers. In addition, the Company has provided flexible transportation rates for several years. The per-unit fee charged for transportation services, while significantly less than the per-unit fee charged for the sale of gas to a similar customer, provides an operating margin approximately equivalent to the margin earned on gas sold. Therefore, increases in such activities will not have as great an impact on gas revenues as increases in deliveries from the sale of gas, but will have a positive impact on operating margin.
Franchises
The Company and its subsidiaries held nonexclusive franchises to provide electric or gas service or both services in 119 incorporated cities and towns at December 31, 1994. These franchises consist of 69 combined gas and electric service franchises, 28 electric service franchises and 22 gas service franchises. The Company is currently providing gas and electric service to one previously franchised municipality while a new franchise is being negotiated. The Company's franchise with the City of Denver will expire in 2006. The Company and its subsidiaries supply electric or gas service or both services in about 114 unincorporated communities in which franchises are not required.
Employees
The number of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries decreased from 6,507 at December 31, 1993 to 5,160 at December 31, 1994. The number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements at December 31, 1994 was 2,449. The decrease in the number of employees is primarily due to an early retirement/severance package offered by the Company in 1994 and to an involuntary severance program implemented as part of the Company's restructuring activities in 1994. Effective February 13, 1995, approximately 390 positions were outsourced as part of a ten-year agreement with ISSC to manage most of the Company's information technology systems and network infrastructure.
Research and Development
The Company and its utility subsidiaries spent approximately $3.8 million in 1994, $4.3 million in 1993 and $4.8 million in 1992 on research and development. The major portion of those expenditures went to utility associations which engage in research projects to benefit the electric and gas industries as a whole. The balance of the expenditures went for smaller internal and external projects dealing with such areas as pollution control and alternative fuels research.
Nuclear Property
Fort St. Vrain, near Platteville, the Company's only nuclear generating station, ceased operations on August 29, 1989 (see Note 2. Fort St. Vrain in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA).
Transmission and Distribution Property
On December 31, 1994, the Company's transmission system consisted of approximately 182 circuit miles of 345 Kv overhead lines; 1,832 circuit miles of 230 Kv overhead lines; 15 circuit miles of 230 Kv underground lines; 65 circuit miles of 138 Kv overhead lines; 965 circuit miles of 115 Kv overhead lines; 19 circuit miles of 115 Kv underground lines; 355 circuit miles of 69 Kv overhead lines; 170 circuit miles of 44 Kv overhead lines; and 1 circuit mile of 44 Kv underground lines. The Company jointly owns with another utility approximately 347 circuit miles of 345 Kv overhead lines and 330 miles of 230 Kv overhead lines, of which the Company's share is 182 miles and 114 miles, respectively, which shares are included in the amounts listed above.
The Company's transmission facilities are located wholly within Colorado. The map on page 18 illustrates the Company's transmission interconnected system. The system is interconnected with the systems of the following utilities with which the Company has major firm purchase power contracts; capacity and energy are provided primarily by generating sources in the locations indicated:
The Company has wheeling agreements with the above, and with other utilities and public power agencies, which are utilized to provide capacity and energy to the Company's system from time to time.
The Company is a member of the WSCC, an interstate network of transmission facilities which are owned by public entities and investor-owned utilities. WSCC is the regional reliability coordinating organization for member electric power systems in the western United States.
At December 31, 1994, the distribution systems consisted primarily of approximately 12,887 miles of overhead line, 1,068 miles of which are located on poles owned by other utilities under joint use agreements. The Company also owned approximately 7,389 cable miles of underground distribution system (excluding street lighting) located principally in the Denver metropolitan area. The Company owned 214 substations (four of which are jointly owned) having an aggregate transformer capacity of 18,179,300 Kva, of which 4,145,827 Kva is step-up transformer capacity at generating stations.
Gas Property
The gas property of the Company at December 31, 1994 consisted chiefly of approximately 14,619 miles of distribution mains ranging in size from 0.50 to 30 inches and related equipment. The Denver distribution system consisted
of 8,100 miles of mains. Pressures in the low pressure system are varied to meet load requirements and individual house regulators are installed on each customer's premises to provide uniform flow of gas to appliances.
Other Property
The Company's steam heating property at December 31, 1994 consisted of 10.5 miles of transmission, distribution and service lines in the business district of Denver, including a steam transmission line connecting the steam heating system with Zuni. Steam is supplied from boilers installed at the Company's Denver Steam Plant which has a capability of 295,000 pounds of steam per hour under sustained load and an additional 300,000 pounds of steam per hour is available from Zuni on a peak demand basis. The Company also owns service and office facilities in Denver and other communities strategically located throughout its service territory.
Property of Subsidiaries
The book value of the properties of the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company aggregates approximately 3% of the total book value of the properties of the Company and such subsidiaries combined. Such properties consist largely of electric and gas properties similar in character to the properties of the Company, except for the exploration, development and production properties still held by Fuelco (see Note 3. Divestiture of Nonutility Assets in Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA). Unregulated subsidiary property is approximately 2% of the total book value of the properties of the Company and consolidated subsidiaries combined. 1480 Welton, Inc. owns office buildings in Denver that are used by the Company.
Character of Ownership
The steam electric generating stations, the majority of major electric substations and the major gas regulator stations owned by the Company and its subsidiaries are on land owned in fee. Approximately half of the compressor stations and a limited number of town border and meter stations are also on land owned in fee. The remaining major electric substations and compressor stations and the majority of gas regulator stations and town border and meter stations are wholly or partially on land leased from others or on or along public highways or on streets or public places within incorporated towns and cities. The Company's Cabin Creek Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Generating Station, its Shoshone Hydroelectric Generating Station and a portion of the related intake tunnel are located on public lands of the United States. As to substantially all property on or across public lands of the United States, the Company or its subsidiaries hold licenses or permits issued by appropriate Federal agencies or departments. The Leyden gas storage facility is located largely on leased property under leases expiring December 31, 2040. The Company and its utility subsidiaries have the power of eminent domain pursuant to Colorado law to acquire property for their electric and gas facilities. The electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities are for the most part located over or under streets, public highways or other public places and on public lands under franchises or other rights, and on land owned by the Company or others pursuant to easements obtained from the record holders of title. The water rights of the Company and its subsidiaries are owned subject to divestment to the extent of any abandonment thereof.
Substantially all of the utility plant and other physical property owned by the Company and its utility subsidiaries is subject to the liens of the respective indentures securing the mortgage bonds of the Company and its utility subsidiaries.
Item 3.