Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL. Consolidated Rail Corporation ("Conrail" or "the ------- Company") is a Pennsylvania corporation incorporated on February 10, 1976 to acquire, pursuant to the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, the rail properties of many of the railroads in the northeast and midwest region of the United States which had gone bankrupt during the early 1970's, the largest of which was the Penn Central Transportation Company ("Penn Central"). On July 1, 1993, Conrail became the wholly-owned subsidiary of Conrail Inc., a holding company. Conrail is Conrail Inc.'s only significant subsidiary and primary asset.
Reports on Form 10-K for years prior to 1993 were filed by Consolidated Rail Corporation, and historic data presented therein reflect the results of Consolidated Rail Corporation for those time periods. From 1993 through 1996, Reports on Form 10-K were filed by both Conrail Inc. and Conrail. With the delisting of its publicly- listed equity securities pursuant to a Form 15 filed in June, 1997, Conrail Inc. ceased filing reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
MERGER OF CONRAIL INC. On October 14, 1996, Conrail Inc., CSX --------------------- Corporation ("CSX") and a subsidiary of CSX entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the "Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which Conrail Inc. was to be merged with a subsidiary of CSX in a merger-of-equals transaction.
On October 24, 1996, Norfolk Southern Corporation ("NSC") commenced an unsolicited tender offer for all outstanding Conrail Inc. voting stock at $100 per share in cash. NSC subsequently increased its offer to $115 per share in cash.
On November 20, 1996, CSX concluded its first tender offer and purchased approximately 19.9% of Conrail Inc.'s outstanding shares for $110 per share.
On February 4, 1997, NSC purchased approximately 8.2 million shares pursuant to a tender offer for up to 9.9% of the outstanding shares for $115 per share.
On March 7, 1997, Conrail Inc. and CSX entered into a Third Amendment (the "Third Amendment") to the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which the price per share was increased from $110 to $115, and the number of shares to be purchased in the tender offer was increased to all outstanding shares.
The Third Amendment also permitted CSX to conduct negotiations with other railroads, including NSC, relating to competitive issues raised by the CSX transactions, and to enter into any resulting agreement.
On April 8, 1997, Conrail Inc. and CSX entered into the Fourth Amendment (the "Fourth Amendment"), which facilitated CSX and NSC entering into an agreement with respect to their joint acquisition of Conrail Inc. as contemplated by the Third Amendment to the Merger Agreement. The terms of the CSX-NSC Agreement are embodied in a letter agreement dated as of April 8, 1997 (the "CSX/NSC Letter Agreement") and the Transaction Agreement dated as of June 10, 1997 among Conrail Inc., CSX and NSC.
The CSX/NSC Letter Agreement provided, among other things, (i) for the termination of the NSC's outstanding offer to purchase Conrail Inc. shares and the dismissal of litigation between CSX and NSC, (ii) that Conrail Inc. would, after the effective time of its merger into a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSX, become a direct or indirect jointly- owned subsidiary of CSX and NSC, (iii) that CSX and NSC would jointly acquire, for $115 in cash, all Conrail Inc. shares not already owned by CSX and NSC through a tender offer that closed on May 23, 1997 and subsequent merger, and (iv) that Conrail Inc. would continue to be managed by its existing Board of Directors until the requisite approval of the Surface Transportation Board is obtained, at which time CSX and NSC will be separately allocated certain of Conrail Inc.'s railroad assets and will jointly operate certain other railroad activities of Conrail Inc.
On May 23, 1997, the CSX-NSC joint tender offer for the remaining outstanding shares of Conrail Inc.'s common and ESOP stock was concluded. On June 2, 1997, Conrail Inc. became the surviving corporation in a merger with Green Acquisition Corp., a jointly-owned, indirect subsidiary of CSX and NSC, as a result of which the remaining outstanding capital stock of Conrail Inc. was acquired by NSC and CSX. Conrail remains a wholly-owned subsidiary of Conrail Inc. Simultaneous with the merger, Conrail Inc.'s common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and, through the filing of a Form 15, deregistered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Conrail Inc. stock acquired by NSC and CSX is being held in a voting trust pending approval of the joint acquisition by the Surface Transportation Board, which is expected to occur in mid-1998.
RAIL OPERATIONS. Conrail provides freight transportation --------------- services within the northeast and midwest United States. Conrail interchanges freight with other United States and Canadian railroads for transport to destinations within and outside Conrail's service region. Conrail operates no significant line of business other than the freight railroad business and does not provide common carrier passenger or commuter train service.
Conrail serves a heavily industrial region that is marked by dense population centers which constitute a substantial market for consumer durable and non-durable goods, and a market for raw materials used in manufacturing and by electric utilities. Conrail's traffic levels and, as a result, its financial performance are substantially affected by its ability to compete with trucks and other railroads, the economic strength of the industries and metropolitan areas that produce and consume the freight Conrail hauls and the traffic generated by Conrail's connecting railroads. Conrail remains dependent on non-bulk traffic, which tends to generate higher revenues than bulk commodities, but also involves higher costs and is more vulnerable to truck competition.
The Service Group System
Since 1994, Conrail's marketing, sales and related operations functions have been organized into four service groups: CORE Service, Intermodal Service, Unit Train Service and Automotive Service. Petrochemicals and minerals, food and agriculture products, forest and manufactured products, and metals are handled by the CORE Service Group. The Intermodal Service Group handles intermodal trailers and containers. The Unit Train Service Group handles coal and ore traffic. The Automotive Service Group handles automotive parts and finished vehicles. Each of these groups controls the integrated planning, pricing and operating functions that will enable them to tailor services, develop products and make capital investments directed toward the special requirements of their respective customers.
Revenues for the Service Groups for 1993 through 1997, together with total annual traffic volumes, are set forth in the following tables.
SERVICE GROUPS - VOLUME IN UNITS (FREIGHT CARS AND INTERMODAL TRAILERS AND CONTAINERS) (IN THOUSANDS)
CORE Service Group ------------------
In 1997, revenues and volume for this service group increased 0.3% and 1.7%, respectively, from 1996. CORE's Metals business unit led the group, with revenue growth of 1.9% from the prior year. The Petrochemicals and Minerals and Food and Agricultural units also increased revenue slightly over 1996. The Forest and Manufactured unit was down in revenue compared to 1996 (2.8%).
Petrochemicals and Minerals: This commodity group consists of a --------------------------- wide variety of commodities, including agricultural and organic chemicals, plastic pellets, soda ash, construction minerals, petroleum products and waste. The majority of traffic is joint line and the primary flows are between Louisiana and Texas, (as originating sources), and Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania (as destination points). This commodity group's customer base and origin/destination pair mix are both large and diverse, with none occupying a dominant position in terms of Conrail's traffic volume or revenues. Conrail's traffic in this commodity group grew 4.0% in 1997 over 1996, with revenue up 1.0%. Revenues from minerals, petroleum products and waste all grew over 1997, while chemical revenue declined slightly due to plant closures and shifts in traffic to short-haul moves.
The largest component of this business is chemical traffic, accounting for approximately 44% of the revenue and 39% of the volume in 1997. This traffic includes chlorine, smaller volumes of other hazardous chemicals and non-hazardous substances which, if spilled or released into the atmosphere, could be dangerous and could result in
significant liability to Conrail. Under catastrophic circumstances, such liability could exceed Conrail's $300 million in insurance coverage for such accidents. It is impossible to eliminate the risk of such liability; however, Conrail has not experienced any significant liability as a result of an accident involving chlorine or any other such substance. Furthermore, Conrail has safety procedures designed to prevent the occurrence of such accidents, or limit their impact should they occur, and works in concert with chemical manufacturers to reduce the risks in transporting these commodities, subscribing to the policies and procedures defined under Responsible Care partnerships. Conrail has been a Responsible Care partner since 1996, and Conrail is on schedule in implementing its five-year Responsible Care plan.
Increasing regulation by federal, state and local governments of the transportation and handling of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and waste has increased the administrative burden and cost of transporting certain commodities in this group.
Food and Agriculture: This commodity group includes fresh and -------------------- processed food products moving primarily in boxcars, grain, grain products and agricultural chemicals moving in covered hopper and tank cars. Conrail's revenue increased by 0.4% and units increased by 1.8% in 1997 from 1996 levels. Traffic in the food segment grew slightly in spite of lower canned goods traffic, while agriculture units grew by 3.4%, due to strong demand for agricultural chemicals, as well as a strong harvest.
Forest and Manufactured Products: This commodity group includes -------------------------------- paper and wood products moving in boxcars, certain lumber and related products moving on flatcars, and general manufactured commodities moving in boxcars. These commodities generated $308 million in revenue in 1997, an overall decline of 2.8% from 1996. The forest products segment of this business (paper and wood products) accounted for 89% of the revenue in 1997. The manufactured products segment suffered a 17% decline in revenue in 1997 compared to 1996, as the result of closing distribution centers and declines in the handling of certain manufactured products.
Metals: This commodity group includes scrap ferrous products and ------ semi-finished, finished and sheet steel. In 1997, units increased 0.5%, revenue per unit rose 1.4% and revenues grew 1.9% over 1996. Additional fleet capacity from new cars and improved freight car utilization contributed to the year-over-year growth.
Intermodal Service Group ------------------------
Conrail continues to be one of the rail industry's leaders in handling intermodal traffic. Volume and revenue increased 11.1% and 9.6%, respectively, in 1997 from 1996. Conrail handled 1.76 million units of intermodal traffic in 1997.
Conrail's intermodal traffic consists of three segments. The first segment is Conrail's parcel/package traffic, which principally involves shipments for the United Parcel Service, U.S. Postal Service and less-than-truck-local companies. Revenue in this segment increased by 8.3% in 1997.
The second segment is domestic traffic, which includes a variety of commodities and customers. Revenue in this segment increased by 9.4% in 1997. Traffic from major truckload companies continued to increase, as did traffic from intermodal marketing companies (or third party freight consolidators and brokers).
International container traffic constitutes the third segment of Conrail's intermodal traffic. International container traffic chiefly involves goods produced in the Pacific Basin and shipped by rail from west coast ports to east coast markets. Conrail and its western railroad connections are able to participate in this traffic because they have established superior transit time compared with the all- water route through the Panama Canal. Conrail also participates in traffic moving through Atlantic ports for import and export trade with European and Mediterranean markets. Revenue from Conrail's international intermodal traffic increased 11.3% in 1997.
In 1997, Conrail's major intermodal terminal improvements included expansion at Harrisburg and Chicago 47th Street and extensive paving at Pittsburgh and North Bergen. Also in 1997, Conrail added 1,200 containers to the EMP container program, a joint venture with NSC and Union Pacific railroads.
Unit Train Service Group ------------------------
The Unit Train Service Group consists of coal, coke, iron ore and aggregates. The 1997 volume and revenue for this group fell below 1996 figures by 2.7% and 1.7%, respectively. A major cause for this reduction was an 18% decline in coke and iron ore volume, due mainly to a prolonged strike at Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel.
Utility coal, which makes up over 70% of Conrail's coal business, increased in volume and revenue by approximately 5% and 9%, respectively, over 1996 levels. Conrail moves utility coal from local and off-line mines to electric utility generating stations. The utility industry continues to deregulate, which will affect the competitive nature of the utility generating stations currently served by Conrail. Annual coal traffic volumes to these electric generating stations fluctuate with a utility's coal inventory policy, the weather and the competitive position of the station.
Export, industrial and metallurgical coals represent the remaining segments of Conrail's coal traffic. Export coal traffic volume and revenue decreased in 1997 by approximately 6% and 31%, respectively. This decrease was the result of weaker demand for U.S. coal by European utilities, resulting from the increased price competition from South American and South African sources. The
industrial coal figures remained unchanged from the 1996 levels. The metallurgical coal volumes increased slightly, while revenue decreased by 18%, changes due in large part to an increase in shorter haul business in this segment.
Automotive Service Group ------------------------
Despite the closing of General Motor's Tarrytown Assembly Plant, Conrail's Automotive Service Group revenue increased 4.6% in 1997. Revenue for the finished vehicles segment increased 5.9%, and revenue for the autoparts segment increased 2.6% over 1996 levels.
Additional market share, combined with a 4% increase in North American light vehicle production, positively affected 1997 revenues. The autoparts segment increased as a result of capturing new traffic lanes, and finished vehicles traffic increased as the result of gaining additional business from domestic and foreign-based domestic manufacturers.
Certain Statistics. The following tables provide various ------------------ measurements relating to Conrail's rail operations from 1993 through 1997:
(1) The Company's operating ratio for 1997 (operating expenses as a percentage of revenues) includes the effects of a $221 million ESOP termination charge, and $287 million in merger-related expenses, without which the operating ratio would have been 77.9%. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. The 1996 operating ratio includes the effect of a one- time $135 million charge for non-union voluntary separation programs and related losses on certain non-cancelable leases, and $16 million in merger-related expenses. Without these charges, Conrail's operating ratio would have been 79.7%. See Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Notes 3 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Without the $283 million special charge in 1995, Conrail's operating ratio would have been 79.9%. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Without an $84 million special charge in 1994, Conrail's operating ratio would have been 81.5%.
(2) Consolidated Rail Corporation without subsidiaries.
(3) Locomotive weight not included.
(1) Consolidated Rail Corporation without subsidiaries.
COMPETITION. Conrail's rail services face significant ----------- competition from trucks, from other railroads, and from the availability of the same or substitute goods produced at points not served by Conrail. The trucking industry is especially competitive in Conrail's service area because, among other reasons, freight in this region is moved shorter distances than in the West, and the cost characteristics of the railroad and trucking industries generally make trucks more competitive over shorter distances.
Price and service competition from trucks, while present for all commodities, is especially evident in the movement of intermodal freight, auto parts, and finished steel. Competition from trucks has been increased by the passage of legislation removing certain barriers to entry into the trucking business and allowing the use of wider, longer, and heavier trailers and multiple trailer combinations. Larger trailers and multiple trailer combinations have substantially increased productivity in the trucking industry, and any future legislation permitting further increases in truck capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on the competitiveness of railroads.
Conrail is also subject to competition from other railroads. In most of Conrail's service territory, one or more other railroads can serve customers directly. Elsewhere, the ability to provide joint service with the many short lines whose operations have proliferated throughout the East, and/or in partnership with trucks (for pick-up, delivery, and draying services) allows rail competitors whose tracks do not reach given customers or points to constrain Conrail prices and to compete effectively for movement of the freight. In addition, recent changes in the nature of rail service offerings and in technology have expanded the scope of rail service beyond the physical limitations of lines, which has resulted in increased railroad competition.
An important influence on Conrail's competitive position is regulation by the Federal government. Prior to 1980, regulation significantly inhibited the ability of railroads to respond to increasing customer demands, overall logistics needs, and changing transportation markets. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980 ("Staggers Act") substantially reduced the restrictions of regulation. In particular, railroads were given more opportunity to reduce costs and more freedom to adjust prices and service offerings, which enabled them to compete more effectively. Under the Staggers Act, the former Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC") deregulated a significant amount of railroad traffic, including intermodal and most boxcar traffic, finished vehicles and numerous other commodities moving in other types of equipment.
The Staggers Act further enhanced railroads' competitive options by permitting the use of railroad-shipper contracts for traffic still regulated, under which the parties can negotiate customer-specific prices, service standards and terms. These contracts generally provide prices lower than tariff rates and many do not guarantee that any given amount of freight will be shipped during their term. As of
December 31, 1997, Conrail was a party to 3,403 such contracts for regulated traffic, which Conrail estimates accounted for 26% of its line-haul revenues in 1997. Although some contracts have a term longer than one year, most contracts are for one year or less. The majority of Conrail's multi-year contracts are subject to cost-related adjustments that provide for flat percentage increases. The cost- based provisions in certain of these contracts are tied to indices formerly under the jurisdiction of the ICC. Action to adjust these indices for productivity gains by the railroads has had an adverse impact on Conrail's ability to recover costs under such contracts, which accounted for less than 1% of Conrail's line haul revenues in 1997.
Effective January 1, 1996, pursuant to the ICC Termination Act of 1995, the authority of the ICC to regulate railroads was transferred to the Department of Transportation ("DOT") to be administered by the Surface Transportation Board. The prior regulatory scheme remains substantially intact, with the following significant changes: (1) access to freight railroad tracks by rail operators (both freight and passenger) operating on behalf of local governmental authorities has been eased; (2) some types of abandonments may take appreciably longer; (3) tariffs and most contracts will no longer be filed (other mechanisms are required for advising customers of rates and rate changes); (4) minimum rate levels will no longer be regulated; and (5) DOT will not regulate railroad issuances of securities or assumptions of debt. Other changes will require development of new regulations and/or of a body of precedent before their impact can be fully assessed.
PROPERTY. As of December 31, 1997, Conrail (excluding its -------- subsidiaries) maintained 17,016 miles of track including track for crossovers, turnouts, second main, other main, passing and switch track, on its 10,801 mile route system. Of total route miles, 8,479 are owned, 191 are leased or operated under contract and 2,131 are operated under trackage rights, including approximately 300 miles operated pursuant to an easement over Amtrak's Northeast Corridor. As of December 31, 1997, virtually all track over which at least 10 million gross tons moved annually (6,008 track miles) was heavy-weight rail of at least 127 pounds per yard, and 100% of such track had continuous welded rail. Continuous welded rail reduces track maintenance costs and, in general, permits trains to travel at higher speeds. As of December 31, 1997, Conrail had 8,702 miles of continuous welded rail on track it maintained.
As of December 31, 1997, 83% of the 3,878 track miles maintained for fast freight traffic had a maximum operating speed of 50 MPH or more, and 70% had a maximum operating speed of at least 60 MPH. As of December 31, 1997, approximately 96% of the track over which at least 10 million gross tons moved annually was governed by automatic signal systems. In all, as of December 31, 1997, 7,598 miles of track were controlled by automatic signal systems.
Until the acquisition of Conrail Inc. by CSX and NSC, Conrail was engaged in an ongoing process to identify certain under-utilized rail lines and other underperforming assets to avoid future capital costs and to improve its return on assets. Conrail recorded a $283 million charge in 1995 to cover the expected losses upon disposition of approximately 1,800 miles of lines and other assets not required to support Conrail's service. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The following table indicates the number of locomotives and freight cars owned (or subject to capitalized leases) and includes 22,618 freight cars used by Conrail under operating leases. These total figures are as of December 31, 1997, and include stored or surplus units, but exclude subsidiaries which have an immaterial number of locomotives and freight cars:
- ----------- (1) Serviceable locomotives not required for current operations on December 31, 1997.
(2) Freight cars which did not move during the seven days immediately preceding December 31, 1997 and which were available for loading. The number of surplus freight cars during 1997 fluctuated due to variations in traffic and fleet adjustments.
On December 31, 1997, the average age of Conrail's road locomotives, not including stored-serviceable units, was 12.1 years. The average age of the total locomotive fleet was 16.4 years, and the average age of the total freight car fleet was 22 years.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. The following tables provide information -------------------- concerning capital expenditures from 1993 through 1997:
(1) Includes communications and signals, bridges and tunnels, computers and telecommunications, and other improvements.
EMPLOYEES AND LABOR. Conrail (excluding subsidiaries) averaged ------------------- 19,802 employees in 1997, 86% of whom are represented by a total of 14 labor organizations and are covered by 21 separate collective bargaining agreements.
Conrail has concluded collective bargaining agreements with all of the organizations representing its agreement employees. These agreements contain moratorium clauses providing that they may not be reopened prior to January 1, 2000 or later. However, a single issue remains outstanding with one of the above-mentioned organizations, the Transportation Communications International Union, representing approximately 1,950 Conrail employees. The parties are currently in mediation under the auspices of the National Mediation Board (NMB).
If the NMB eventually concludes that its efforts to resolve the dispute will not be successful, it will proffer binding arbitration. If either side refuses to arbitrate, there is a 30-day "cooling-off" period during which the NMB may make a finding that the dispute threatens "substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree
such as to deprive any section of the country of essential transportation service." Such finding is then presented to the President of the United States who has the option of appointing an Emergency Board to investigate the dispute. If the President does not appoint an Emergency Board, the parties are free to resort to self help at the conclusion of the above-mentioned cooling-off period.
If the President does appoint an Emergency Board, the Board has 30 days to investigate the dispute and report its findings. The Emergency Board's findings are non-binding. Although the parties must maintain the status quo for a period of 30 days following the issuance of the Board's report, any party which rejects the Board's findings may thereafter resort to self help. In the event of a strike, Congress has the power to resolve the dispute by enacting legislation, including legislation imposing a labor contract in accordance with the findings of the Emergency Board.
Under a decision by the United States Supreme Court on April 28, 1987, rail unions have the right, under the Railway Labor Act and other federal laws, to engage in secondary picketing against any railroad. As a result, a labor dispute between one railroad and a union can cause a strike to spread to any other railroad, or to all other railroads, whether or not the union has a collective bargaining agreement or a dispute with such other railroads. There is also the potential that railroads may be subject to secondary picketing in the event of a strike in the airline industry, which, like the railroad industry, is subject to the Railway Labor Act.
Should Conrail or its subsidiaries be the subject of a strike or secondary picketing, Conrail's rail operations could be stopped or severely curtailed.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION. Conrail is subject to environmental, --------------------- safety, and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, and its rail operations are also regulated by the DOT, the Federal Railroad Administration ("FRA"), state Departments of Transportation and some state and local regulatory agencies.
The DOT has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates charged for certain traffic movements, service levels and freight car rents. It also has jurisdiction over the situations and terms under which one railroad may gain access to another railroad's traffic or facilities, extension or abandonment of rail lines, consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control of rail common carriers and of other carriers by rail common carriers, and labor protection provisions in connection with the foregoing.
Under the Staggers Act, federal regulation of rates and services was reduced. The regulatory scheme, now administered by the Surface Transportation Board, continues the ICC's prior deregulation of rates for intermodal traffic, most boxcar traffic and a series of miscellaneous commodities, including steel and automobiles. In addition, railroads are free to negotiate contracts with shippers setting rates, service standards and the terms for movements of other kinds of traffic. As a result, railroads have greater flexibility in adjusting rates and services to meet revenue needs and competitive conditions. For further discussion of the abolition of the ICC and the effect of the transfer of its regulatory authority to DOT, see "Competition."
The FRA has jurisdiction over safety and railroad equipment standards.
Conrail's rail operations are also subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. In addition to being involved as a potentially responsible party at numerous Superfund sites (see Item 3