Item 2. Properties - CMS Energy Other Properties and Item 7. CMS Energy Management's Discussion and Analysis - Independent Power Production.
CMS Energy Natural Gas Transmission, Storage and Processing
CMS Gas Transmission, which commenced operations in 1989, owns, develops and manages domestic and international natural gas transmission, processing and storage projects. For additional information, see Item 7. CMS Energy Management's Discussion and Analysis - Natural Gas Transmission, Storage and Marketing.
CMS Energy International Energy Distribution
CMS Electric and Gas was formed in 1996 to invest in, manage, and operate international natural gas and electric distribution systems. In 1996, a seven-company consortium in which CMS Electric and Gas holds a 40 percent interest acquired 90 percent of the outstanding shares of EDEER S.A. For additional information, see Item 7. CMS Energy Management's Discussion and Analysis - International Energy Distribution.
CMS Energy Marketing, Services and Trading
In 1996, CMS MST was formed to provide gas, oil, coal and electric marketing, risk management and energy management services to industrial, commercial, utility and municipal energy users throughout the United States and internationally. The creation of CMS MST is part of a restructuring of CMS Energy's energy marketing business which included the merging of CMS Gas Marketing into CMS MST and the transfer of CMS Electric Marketing's assets to CMS MST.
CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS' CONSOLIDATED REVENUE BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
In Millions - -------------------------------------------------------------------- Years Ended December 31 1996 1995 1994 - --------------------------------------------------------------------
Electric Operations Residential $ 878 $ 809 $ 756 Commercial 739 675 646 Industrial 704 687 672 Other system sales 80 78 80 Intersystem sales 45 28 35 ----------------------------- Total Electric Operations 2,446 2,277 2,189 -----------------------------
Gas Operations Residential 869 821 791 Commercial 254 239 230 Industrial 62 59 57 Other 39 26 19 Transportation 58 50 54 ----------------------------- Total Gas Operations 1,282 1,195 1,151 -----------------------------
Other Consumers Operations 42 39 16 -----------------------------
Total Consumers Revenue 3,770 3,511 3,356 -----------------------------
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Operations 130 108 78 -----------------------------
Independent Power Production (a) 140 96 46 ----------------------------- Gas Transmission and Marketing Operations (b) Marketing 258 171 129 Transmission 62 25 16 ----------------------------- Total Gas Transmission and Marketing Operations 320 196 145 ----------------------------- Other CMS Energy Operations (c) 15 18 5 ----------------------------- Reclassification adjustment (d) (42) (39) (16) ----------------------------- Total CMS Energy Revenue $4,333 $3,890 $3,614 ====================================================================
(a) Does not include CMS Energy's share of unconsolidated independent power production revenue of $493 million in 1996, $497 million in 1995, and $385 million in 1994.
(b) Does not include CMS Energy's share of unconsolidated natural gas transmission, storage and marketing revenue of $42 million in 1996, $26 million in 1995, and $7 million in 1994.
(c) Does not include CMS Energy's share of unconsolidated international energy distribution revenue of $22 million in 1996.
(d) Represents the reclassification of Other Consumers Operations to CMS Energy segments including the consolidated interest in the MCV to Independent Power Production of $40 million for 1996, $36 million for 1995 and $15 million for 1994, and the remainder to Other CMS Energy Operations.
CMS ENERGY'S AND CONSUMERS' SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
Consumers Electric and Gas Sales
Years Ended December 31 1996 1995 1994 - --------------------------------------------------------------------
Electric Sales (millions of kWh) Residential 10,921 10,712 10,222 Commercial 9,978 9,649 9,174 Industrial 12,897 12,688 12,321 Other system sales 1,182 1,351 1,285 Intersystem sales 2,073 1,106 1,460 ---------------------------- Total Electric Sales 37,051 35,506 34,462 ====================================================================
Gas Sales and Deliveries (bcf) Residential 190 180 171 Commercial 61 58 55 Industrial 16 15 14 Transportation 181 151 169 --------------------------- Total Gas Sales and Deliveries 448 404 409 ====================================================================
CMS Energy Other Sales
Years Ended December 31 1996 1995 1994 - --------------------------------------------------------------------
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Sales (net equiv. MMbbls) 9.7 8.9 5.6 ====================================================================
Independent Power Production Sales (millions of kWh) 7,823 7,422 6,216 ====================================================================
Gas Marketed for End-users (bcf) 108 101 66 ====================================================================
CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS REGULATION
CMS Energy, Consumers and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including those specifically described below.
Michigan Public Service Commission
Consumers is subject to the jurisdiction of the MPSC, which regulates public utilities in Michigan with respect to retail utility rates, accounting, services, certain facilities and various other matters. The MPSC also has or will have rate jurisdiction over several limited part- nerships in which CMS Gas Transmission has ownership interests. These partnerships own or will own and operate intrastate gas transmission pipelines.
The Attorney General, ABATE, and the MPSC staff typically intervene in MPSC proceedings concerning Consumers. Unless otherwise noted herein, these parties have intervened in such proceedings. For many years, almost every significant MPSC order affecting Consumers has been appealed. Appeals from such MPSC orders are pending in the Michigan Court of Appeals and the Michigan Supreme Court. Consumers is vigorously pursuing these matters. Under Michigan civil procedure, parties may file a claim of appeal with the Michigan Court of Appeals which serves as a notice of appeal. The grounds on which the appeal is being made are not finally set forth until a later date when the parties file their briefs.
MPSC Regulatory Changes: In January 1996, the Governor of the State of Michigan requested that the MPSC review the existing statutory and regulatory framework governing Michigan utilities in light of increasing competition in the utility industry. In response, the MPSC Staff issued the "Staff Report on Electric Industry Restructuring" in December 1996. The report recommends a phased-in program of direct access by customers to electricity suppliers, with a rate freeze for temporarily captive customers, choice of suppliers, transition cost recovery, and new bond legislation to securitize transition costs. Consumers and various parties filed comments on the Staff's report in January 1997. In March 1997, Consumers and Detroit Edison filed their responses to a February 1997 MPSC order asking the utilities to provide additional information concerning certain elements of the plan. At this time, no new legislation has been introduced. For additional information concerning the MPSC staff report and Consumers' filings, see Item 7. Consumers Management's Discussion and Analysis - Forward-Looking Information - Electric Outlook.
In late 1996, the MPSC requested Consumers and other local gas distribution companies regulated by the MPSC to develop pilot programs that would allow customers to purchase gas from other suppliers and have the gas transported through local pipelines. Consumers subsequently received MPSC approval to initiate a two-year experimental gas transportation program, Choice Energy, in Bay County, Michigan. For additional information concerning the MPSC order, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4 to Consumers' Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Retail Wheeling Proceedings: In April 1994, the MPSC issued an opinion and interim order which approved the framework for a five-year experimental retail open access program for "wheeling" of electric power purchased by customers from other suppliers over the transmission systems of Consumers and Detroit Edison, and remanded the case to the ALJ to determine appropriate rates and charges. The MPSC stated that the purpose of the experiment is to gather and evaluate information regarding whether retail wheeling is in the public interest and should occur on a permanent basis. The experimental program will commence with each utility's next solicitation of additional supply side resources. In June 1995, the MPSC issued an order that set rates and charges for retail delivery service under the experiment. In September 1995, the MPSC denied Consumers' and ABATE's petitions for rehearing of this order. Consumers, ABATE and Dow have filed claims of appeal of the MPSC's order with the Court of Appeals, joining Detroit Edison and the Attorney General who had previously appealed. The Court of Appeals subsequently consolidated the appellate cases of these parties. This matter is still pending.
Rate Proceedings: In September 1995, Consumers and the MPSC staff reached a proposed settlement agreement that addressed several outstanding regulatory issues before the MPSC in three separate proceedings, (i) a request for approval of a competitive tariff for certain industrial customers, (ii) a general electric rate case increase request and a request for approval of cost recovery of the remaining 325 MW of contract capacity from the MCV Facility and (iii) approval of certain revised depreciation and accounting practices. In November 1996, the MPSC issued a final order in the Settlement Agreement which combined the separate requests. For additional information concerning Settlement Agreement, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes 3 and 4 of Consumers' Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Intrastate Gas Supplier Contract Pricing Dispute: In October 1995, the MPSC issued an opinion and order in a proceeding that had been initiated by Consumers regarding a gas contract pricing dispute under three gas supply contracts. The MPSC found that the pricing mechanism at issue, that operates within definite ceiling and floor prices, is a definite pricing provision within the meaning of the state statutes and was properly implemented by Consumers to reduce gas prices without the prior approval of the MPSC. The producers subsequently filed a claim of appeal of the MPSC order with the Court of Appeals, where the case awaits scheduling of oral arguments.
Prior to the issuance of the MPSC's order, the intrastate gas producers involved in this MPSC proceeding filed a complaint against Consumers in Kent County Circuit Court alleging breach of contract. On Consumers' motion, the court dismissed the lawsuit. The gas suppliers subsequently filed a petition for rehearing with the court where the matter is still pending.
MPSC Case No U-10029 - Intrastate Gas Supply: In February 1993, the MPSC issued an order granting Consumers' request to lower the price to be paid to one of its intrastate gas suppliers, North Michigan, who then filed an appeal with the Court of Appeals. In June 1995, the Court of Appeals affirmed the MPSC's decision and North Michigan's motion for reconsideration was denied in August 1995. North Michigan filed an application with the Michigan Supreme Court for leave to appeal the Court of Appeals' order, which the Michigan Supreme Court subsequently denied. North Michigan filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court to review the Michigan Supreme Court's decision. In December 1996, the U.S. Supreme Court denied this petition. This proceeding is now closed.
Collateral suits claiming relief based on a theory of breach of contract, among other things, were filed by the producers in the Grand Traverse County Circuit Court and in the Clinton County Circuit Court, which was subsequently transferred to Jackson County Circuit Court. The dismissals of the Grand Traverse County Circuit Court suit and the Jackson County Circuit Court suit were appealed by the producers to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the dismissals in an opinion issued in January 1997. The producers have filed a motion, which is still pending, for rehearing in the Court of Appeals.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
FERC has limited jurisdiction over 26 independent power projects in which CMS Generation has an ownership interest which are Qualifying Facilities under PURPA. FERC also has more comprehensive jurisdiction over Michigan Gas Storage as a natural gas company within the meaning of the Natural Gas Act. The FERC jurisdiction relates, among other things, to the acquisition, operation and disposal of assets and facilities and to service provided and rates charged by Michigan Gas Storage. Under certain circumstances, the FERC also has the power to modify gas tariffs of interstate pipeline companies. Some of Consumers' gas business is also subject to regulation by the FERC including a blanket transportation tariff pursuant to which Consumers can transport gas in interstate commerce.
Certain aspects of Consumers' electric operations are also subject to regulation by the FERC, including compliance with the FERC's accounting rules and other regulations applicable to "public utilities" and "licensees", the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and the rates and charges for the sale of electric energy at wholesale, the consummation of certain mergers, the sale of certain facilities, the construction, operation and maintenance of hydroelectric projects and the issuance of securities, as provided by the Federal Power Act.
FERC Regulatory Changes: In April 1996, FERC issued Orders 888 and 889, which require utilities to file conforming open access tariffs and functionally unbundle transmission and wholesale sales activities. Consumers made compliance filings in July and December 1996, which are still pending FERC resolution. Consumers' open access tariff proceeding filed in 1992 still awaits FERC decision. Orders 888 and 889 are more fully discussed in Item 7. Consumers Management's Discussion and Analysis - - Forward-Looking Information - Electric Outlook.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, Consumers is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the design, construction and operation of its nuclear power plants. Consumers is also subject to NRC jurisdiction with respect to certain other uses of nuclear material. These and other matters concerning Consumers' nuclear plants are more fully discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes 2 and 13 to Consumers' Consolidated Financial Statements.
CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS INSURANCE
Consumers maintains $500 million of primary property damage insurance from NML at each of its operating nuclear plants, Big Rock and Palisades, covering all risks of physical loss, subject to certain exclusions and deductibles. Consumers is also insured by NEIL and obtains excess property damage insurance in the amount of $2 billion for Palisades. These nuclear property insurance policies cover decontamination, debris removal and direct property loss. The NEIL excess property damage policies for Palisades would also cover much of the cost arising from an accidental premature decommissioning which was not already funded and part of the remaining book value of the plant. For any loss over $100 million, stabilization and decontamination expenses must be satisfied before other claims proceeds are received from the insurers. Under all these policies, Consumers retains the risk of loss to the extent the loss is within the policy deductibles ($1 million for Palisades and $250,000 for Big Rock) or policy exclusions or if the loss exceeds the combined property damage policy limits ($2.5 billion for Palisades and $500 million for Big Rock) at either location. Because NML and NEIL are mutual insurance companies, Consumers would be subject to assessments under the NML and NEIL excess property damage policies which could total $20.7 million in any one policy year in the event of covered losses at its own or any other member's nuclear facility. Consumers has also procured NEIL I coverage which would partially cover the cost of replacement power during certain prolonged accidental outages of the Big Rock or Palisades units. Such costs would not be covered by the insurance during the first 21 weeks of any outage, but the major portion of such costs would be covered during the next 12 months of the outage, followed by a reduced level of coverage for a period up to two additional years. Consumers would be subject to a maximum assessment under the replacement power insurance of $2.2 million in any one policy year in the event of covered losses at its own or any other member's nuclear facility or facilities.
Consumers maintains nuclear liability insurance and other forms of financial protection (including an agreement of government indemnity under the Price-Anderson Act, applicable to the Big Rock) for injuries and off- site property damage due to the nuclear hazard at such facilities. Such insurance and financial protection covers Consumers up to the aggregate limits of liability established by the Price-Anderson Act, which are presently $544 million for Big Rock and approximately $8.9 billion for Palisades. Part of such financial protection consists of a mandatory industry-wide program under which owners of nuclear generating facilities could be assessed in the event of a nuclear incident at any of such facilities. Consumers would be subject to a maximum assessment of $79 million per occurrence in the event of a nuclear incident at certain nuclear facilities, limited to a maximum installment payment of $10 million per occurrence in any year. Consumers also maintains insurance under a master worker program that covers tort claims for bodily injury caused by a nuclear hazard to workers who began their nuclear related employment after January 1, 1988. The policies contain a $200 million nuclear industry aggregate limit and could subject Consumers to a maximum assessment of up to $6.3 million in the event of claims thereunder.
Property insurance is also maintained on CMS Energy's and Consumers' non- nuclear facilities and operations. Conventional (non-nuclear) property insurance is maintained on buildings, equipment, boilers, machinery and gas stored underground. The applicable policies insure the full replacement value of all major operating locations. However, the insurance policies are subject to standard terms, conditions, exclusions and coverage limits similar to those of other companies with similar facilities and operations. Consumers maintains deductibles ranging from $500,000 to $1 million on plant and facility losses. Certain CMS Energy projects are specifically insured with lower deductibles. Consumers insures its overhead electric transmission and distribution system for a $25 million maximum loss limit subject to a $7.5 million deductible.
CMS Energy's and Consumers' non-nuclear public liability insurance policies provide a $125 million policy limit, with a $500,000 deductible. Other policies include $125 million of excess workers' compensation insurance, subject to the $500,000 deductible; $125 million of fiduciary and employee benefit liability insurance, subject to the $500,000 deductible; $10 million of crime insurance coverage subject to a $100,000 deductible; $50 million (offshore) and $20 million (onshore) of oil and gas well blow-out insurance subject to a $250,000 deductible; and a maximum of $225 million of aircraft insurance. Certain CMS Energy non- utility operations and projects maintain special insurance with lower deductibles.
CMS Energy and Consumers are not insured with regard to certain risks, most notably for damage to its underground gas and electrical equipment, because it believes that these properties are not subject to large loss risks. Consumers has also not obtained insurance for flood and earthquake property damage at its nuclear plants because it believes that the protective systems built into these plants and the low probability of an event of this type at the locations of these plants makes such insurance unnecessary. In addition, Consumers' current insurance coverages do not extend to certain environmental clean-up costs, such as claims for air pollution, some past PCB contamination and for some long-term storage or disposal of pollutants. See CMS Energy and Consumers Environmental Compliance below.
Insurance policy terms, limits and conditions are subject to change during the year as policies are renewed; however, CMS Energy and Consumers believe that they and their subsidiaries are adequately insured for the various risk exposures incidental to their respective businesses.
CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
CMS Energy and Consumers and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation with regard to environmental quality, including air and water quality, waste management, zoning and other matters, by various federal, state and local authorities. Management believes that the responsible administration of its energy resources includes reasonable programs for the protection and enhancement of the environment. For additional information concerning environmental matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 of Consumers' Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consumers has installed modern stack emission controls and monitoring systems at its electric generating plants and converted electric gener- ating units to burn cleaner fuels. It has worked with others to use bottom ash as final cover for ash disposal areas in place of topsoil and flyash as a filler for asphalt in road shoulders. It has also worked with local, state and national organizations on waste minimization and pollution prevention initiatives and enhanced certain of Consumers' lands for the benefit of wildlife, as well as provided recreational access to its lands. Finally, it has worked with universities and other institutions on projects to protect and, in some instances, propagate threatened or endangered species, and made financial contributions to a variety of environmental enhancement projects. Capital expenditures by Consumers for environmental protection additions were $34 million in 1996 and are estimated to be $21 million in 1997.
Air use permits are required under federal and state law for certain of Consumers' and CMS Generation's affiliates' sources of air emissions. These laws require that certain affected facilities control their sources' air emissions. Permits for Consumers' affected steam electric generating facilities and other affected sources of air emissions have been issued by the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission, and more recently, the Department of Environmental Quality, pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Environmental Protection Agency under the Clean Air Act and Michigan Air Pollution Act, as amended. Consumers believes that it is in substantial compliance with all air use permits.
Consumers has engaged in an aggressive testing and removal program for USTs. Since 1985, Consumers and its subsidiaries have reduced the number of regulated UST systems from 256 to 31. At 116 of the sites from which UST systems were removed, there had been hydrocarbon releases, either from tank system leaks or from spillage on the surface during transfer of contents to or from the tanks. Consumers' response activities have resulted in Department of Natural Resources/Department of Environmental Quality concurrence in closure of 100 of those releases. The remaining releases are at various stages of cleanup completion. The Michigan Underground Storage Tank Financial Assurance Act provided a fund to help pay for the cost of response activities associated with leaking USTs. Through December 1996, Consumers was reimbursed $4.7 million by this state fund. This fund was eliminated in 1996, and no future reimbursements will be available.
Like most electric utilities, Consumers has PCB in some of its electrical equipment. Although it has been unlawful to manufacture or sell PCB or PCB contaminated equipment since the 1970's, its continued use in preexisting electrical equipment is lawful. Consumers has engaged in a number of programs to reduce the risk of exposure to the environment from possible PCB spills. These included such actions as a contingency program of removing PCB capacitors outside of substations and replacing them with non-PCB capacitors, draining large transformers and refilling them with non-PCB mineral oil, removing PCB equipment which was found to pose a risk to food supplies or animal feed, and other such programs. Consumers still has a limited number of PCB capacitors in substations. It has approximately 460,000 untested distribution transformers. By regulation, unless the PCB level is known, transformers are presumed to be PCB- contaminated. There may also be PCB in certain other types of equipment. Based upon results of sampling in 1981, it is thought that about 1 percent of the pole-top transformers had over 500 ppm of PCB, and about 12 percent had from 50 to 500 ppm. Those percentages should decline over time with the retirement of older equipment and its replacement with non-PCB equipment. From time to time there are accidental releases from such equipment. Consumers typically spends less than $1 million per year for all cleanup and disposal of debris and equipment from PCB releases.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and ground water discharge permits authorize the discharge of certain waste waters from Consumers' facilities and pipeline construction projects pursuant to state water quality standards and federal effluent limitation guidelines. Authorizations for discharges from all of Consumers' major operating steam electric generating facilities and for certain discharges from Consumers' other facilities, including hydroelectric projects and pipeline construction projects, have been issued by the State of Michigan pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended. Consumers believes that it is in substantial compliance with National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and groundwater discharge/exemption permits.
CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS COMPETITION
Electric Competition
The electric utility operations of Consumers are regulated at the wholesale and retail level. The wholesale utility operations of Consumers are regulated by the FERC while the retail utility operations are regulated by the MPSC. Competitors in the electric utility operations of Consumers must also be similarly regulated or specifically exempted from such regulation. CMS Energy's non-utility electric generation businesses are exempt from most state and many federal regulations regarding electric generation and compete in the non-utility power market with other non- utility energy companies that have similar exemptions. The electric utility industry has experienced retail load competition in recent years from cogeneration and self-generation, the possible formation of municipal utilities, and competition from other utilities offering flexible rate arrangements, as discussed below. The electric utility industry is now also experiencing increased competition in the wholesale power markets. The factors driving this trend include the enactment of PURPA, the enactment of the Energy Act and increased transmission access. These initiatives provide both opportunities for Consumers in competing for new customers and potential risks because of alternative energy supplies available to existing customers. CMS Energy is similarly faced with expanded opportunities and competition for customers in the non-utility electric generation market.
PURPA created a special class of independent power producers that, providing the requirements of Qualifying Facility status are met, are entitled by statute to have their production purchased by a utility. Under PURPA, Qualifying Facilities are generally exempt from federal and state rate regulation. Consumers last signed a PURPA contract in 1993. Similar to PURPA, the Energy Act was designed, among other things, to foster competition in the wholesale electric market by facilitating the ownership and operation of generating facilities by "exempt wholesale generators" (which may include independent power producers as well as affiliates of electric utilities), by excluding them from regulation under PUHCA and by authorizing the FERC under certain conditions to order utilities that own transmission facilities to provide wholesale transmission services to or for other utilities and other entities generating electric energy for sale or resale. One effect of the reduced regulation has been to encourage investment in wholesale power production facilities that will compete with utilities to provide generation to meet future system demand and provide competition for CMS Energy in the domestic and foreign non-utility electric generation markets.
Some of Consumers' larger industrial customers have explored the possibility of constructing and operating their own on-site generating facilities. Consumers has worked with these customers to develop rate and service alternatives that are competitive with self-generation options. In an effort to meet the challenge of competition, Consumers has signed sales contracts with some of its largest industrial customers, including its largest customer, General Motors.
In addition, a number of municipalities distribute electricity within their corporate limits and some of these generate all or a portion of their requirements. These municipalities and various rural electric cooperative corporations serve a growing number of retail customers in the same or adjacent areas served by Consumers. In one case, a community currently served by Consumers is considering the formation of a new municipal utility which could displace retail service by Consumers.
Consumers has on file with the FERC an open-access transmission tariff as discussed above in CMS Energy and Consumers Regulation. During 1996 Consumers filed wholesale power sales agreements with FERC to supply power to six municipal and two cooperative electric utilities which had pre- existing contracts with Consumers. The new contracts are for a five-year term beginning January 1997. The rates are unbundled to reflect the cost of power and transmission and to reflect open access. Other similar open-access transmission tariffs have been made effective by the FERC for several large utility companies or systems and more open-access transmission tariffs are anticipated. These developments produce increased marketing opportunities for utility systems such as Consumers' and expose Consumers' system to loss of wholesale load or reduced revenues due to possible displacement of Consumers' wholesale transactions by alternative suppliers with access to Consumers' primary areas of service. Because wholesale transactions by Consumers generated less than 2 percent of Consumers' 1996 revenue from electric operations, Consumers does not believe that this potential loss is significant.
For additional information concerning electric competition, see Item 7. Consumers Management's discussion and Analysis - Forward-Looking Information - Electric Outlook.
Gas Competition
Competition has existed for several years for Consumers' gas operations and comes primarily from alternate energy sources such as electricity and alternate fuel sources. In the industrial market segment, customers have traditionally used alternate fuels such as coal, oil and propane. In the residential market segment, some customers use propane, fuel oil or electricity for space heating and water heating; in Consumers' gas territory, natural gas maintains 96.9 percent market share for residential space heating and 88 percent for residential water heating. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 resulted in the deregulation of wellhead gas prices, substituting supply and demand effects of the marketplace for regulation. This effectively eliminated artificially-induced curtailments of gas supply experienced earlier in the decade. Gas competition among various wellhead suppliers subsequently increased. Order 636 effectively unbundled the transportation of natural gas from the sale of natural gas by interstate pipelines thereby requiring pipelines to become common carriers. Consequently, pipelines must compete for shippers in search of low priced capacity. Consumers offers unbundled services (transportation and storage) to its larger end-use customers who choose to acquire gas supplies from alternate sources. Since Consumers' earnings from its gas operations are not dependent on gas purchased and resold to its customer base, Consumers has not suffered any negative earnings impact as a result of such competition, nor does it believe that any such impact is likely in the future.
CMS Energy's non-regulated gas subsidiaries face significant competition from other gas pipeline companies, gas producers, gas storage companies, and brokers/marketers.
For additional information concerning gas competition, see Item 7. Consumers Management's discussion and Analysis - Forward-Looking Information - Gas Outlook.
EMPLOYEES
CMS Energy
As of February 28, 1997, CMS Energy and its subsidiaries had 9,663 full- time equivalent employees of which 9,541 are full-time employees; the rest equate to 122 full-time equivalent employees associated with the part-time work force.
Consumers
As of February 28, 1997, Consumers and its subsidiaries had 8,873 full- time equivalent employees of which 8,758 are full-time employees; the rest equate to 115 full-time equivalent employees associated with the part-time work force. Included in the total are 3,953 full-time operating, maintenance and construction employees of Consumers who are represented by the Union. A collective bargaining agreement was negotiated between Consumers and the Union which became effective as of June 1, 1995 and, by its terms, will continue in full force and effect until June 1, 2000.
CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS EXECUTIVE OFFICERS As of February 28, 1997
Name Age Position Period - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
William T. McCormick, Jr. 52 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of CMS Energy 1987-Present Chairman of the Board of Consumers 1992-Present Chairman of the Board of Enterprises 1995-Present Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Enterprises 1988-1995 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Consumers 1985-1992
Victor J. Fryling 49 President and Chief Operating Officer of CMS Energy 1996-Present Vice Chairman of the Board of Consumers 1992-Present President and Chief Executive Officer of Enterprises 1995-Present President of CMS Energy 1992-1995 President of Enterprises 1993-1995 President and Chief Financial Officer of Enterprises 1992-1993 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CMS Energy and Consumers 1988-1992
Michael G. Morris 50 Executive Vice President of CMS Energy 1996-Present President and Chief Executive Officer of Consumers 1994-Present Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Consumers 1992-1994 Executive Vice President of Consumers 1988-1992
Alan M. Wright 51 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of CMS Energy 1994-Present Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Consumers 1993-Present Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Enterprises 1994-Present Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CMS Energy 1992-1994 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Enterprises 1993-1994 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Consumers 1992-1993 Vice President and Treasurer of Consumers 1991-1992
Rodger A. Kershner 48 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Energy 1996-Present Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Enterprises 1996-Present Vice President and General Counsel of Enterprises 1989-1996 Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of CMS Energy 1994-1995 Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of CMS Energy 1989-1994
John W. Clark 52 Senior Vice President of CMS Energy 1987-Present Senior Vice President of Consumers 1985-Present
James W. Cook 56 Senior Vice President of CMS Energy 1995-Present Senior Vice President of Enterprises 1994-Present Executive Vice President of Enterprises 1989-1994 President and Chief Executive Officer of CMS Generation 1989-1995
Preston D. Hopper 46 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Energy 1996-Present Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Energy 1992-1996 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Enterprises 1997-Present Senior Vice President and Controller of Enterprises 1996-1997 Vice President and Controller of Enterprises 1992-1996 Vice President and Controller of CMS Energy 1991-1992
Rodney E. Boulanger 56 Senior Vice President of Enterprises 1996-Present President and Chief Executive Officer of CMS Generation 1995-Present
William J. Haener 55 President and Chief Executive Officer of CMS Gas Transmission 1994-Present
Gordon L. Wright 54 President and Chief Executive Officer of CMS NOMECO 1995-Present Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of CMS NOMECO 1993-1995 Vice President of Operations of CMS NOMECO 1981-1993
Paul A. Elbert 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer - Gas of Consumers 1994-Present Senior Vice President of Consumers 1991-1994
David W. Joos 43 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer - Electric of Consumers 1994-Present Senior Vice President of Consumers 1994-1994 Vice President of Consumers 1990-1994
David A. Mikelonis 48 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Consumers 1988-Present
Robert A. Fenech 49 Senior Vice President of Consumers 1997-Present Vice President of Consumers 1994-1997
Dennis DaPra* 54 Vice President and Controller of Consumers 1991-Present
*Mr. DaPra is an executive officer of Consumers but not of CMS Energy. All other individuals are executive officers of both CMS Energy and Consumers.
The present term of office of each of the executive officers extends to the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the next annual election of Directors of each of CMS Energy and Consumers (scheduled to be held May 27, 1997).
There are no family relationships among executive officers and directors of CMS Energy and Consumers.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
CHARACTER OF OWNERSHIP
The principal properties of CMS Energy, Consumers and their subsidiaries are owned in fee, except that most electric lines and gas mains are located, pursuant to easements and other rights, in public roads or on land owned by others. The statements under this item as to ownership of properties are made without regard to tax and assessment liens, judgments, easements, rights of way, contracts, reservations, exceptions, conditions, immaterial liens and encumbrances, and other outstanding rights. None of these outstanding rights impairs the usefulness of such properties.
Substantially all of Consumers' properties are subject to the lien of its First Mortgage Bond Indenture. Substantially all properties of the subsidiaries of CMS Generation that own interests in operating plants are subject to liens of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. Properties of certain Consumers, CMS Gas Transmission and CMS NOMECO subsidiaries are also subject to liens of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.
CONSUMERS ELECTRIC UTILITY PROPERTIES
Consumers' electric generating system consists of five fossil-fueled plants, two nuclear plants, one pumped storage hydroelectric facility, seven gas combustion turbine plants and 13 hydroelectric plants.
Consumers owns substations having an aggregate transformer capacity of 38,016,960 kilovoltamperes.
CONSUMERS GAS UTILITY PROPERTIES
Consumers' gas distribution and transmission system consists of 22,309 miles of distribution mains and 1,041 miles of transmission lines throughout the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. Consumers owns and operates six compressor stations with a total of 133,060 installed horsepower.
Consumers' gas storage fields, listed below, have an aggregate storage capacity of 242.2 bcf.
Michigan Gas Storage owns and operates two compressor stations with a total of 46,600 installed horsepower. Its transmission system consists of 530 miles of pipelines within the Lower Peninsula of Michigan.
Michigan Gas Storage's gas storage fields, listed below, have an aggregate certified storage capacity of 109.5 bcf.
Consumers' gas properties also include the Marysville gas reforming plant, located in Marysville, Michigan. Huron and PanCanadian Petroleum Company are partners in a partnership to use the expanded capacity of the underground caverns at the Marysville plant for commercial storage of liquid hydrocarbons. In addition, Consumers and PanCanadian Petroleum Company are partners in a partnership to use certain hydrocarbon fractionation facilities at the plant.
CMS ENERGY OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES
Net oil and gas production by CMS NOMECO for the years 1994 through 1996 is shown in the following table.
The following table shows CMS NOMECO's estimated proved reserves of oil and gas for the years 1994 through 1996.
The following table shows CMS NOMECO's undeveloped net acres of oil and gas leasehold interests.
CONSUMERS OTHER PROPERTIES
CMS Midland owns a 49 percent interest in the MCV Partnership which was formed to construct and operate the MCV Facility. The MCV Facility has been sold to five owner trusts and leased back to the MCV Partnership. CMS Holdings is a limited partner in the FMLP, which is a beneficiary of one of these trusts. CMS Holdings' indirect beneficial interest in the MCV Facility is 35 percent.
Consumers owns fee title to 1,140 acres of land in the City and Township of Midland, Midland County, Michigan, occupied by the MCV Facility. The land is leased to the owners of the MCV Facility by five separate leases, each leasing an undivided interest and in the aggregate totaling 100 percent, for an initial term ending December 31, 2035 with possible renewal terms to June 15, 2090.
Consumers owns or leases three principal general office buildings in Jackson, Michigan and 53 field offices at various locations in Michigan's Lower Peninsula. Of these, two general office buildings and eleven field offices are leased. Also owned are miscellaneous parcels of real estate not now used in utility operations.
CMS ENERGY OTHER PROPERTIES
The following table shows interests in independent power plants at December 31, 1996.
In 1996, CMS Generation sold its 37.5 percent interest in a 80 MW fossil- fueled plant in Solvay, New York. In February 1997, CMS Generation acquired a 29.5 percent interest in a 48 MW fossil-fueled plant in Cavite, Philippines. CMS Generation also negotiated the purchase of a further interest which could take its ultimate interest to 44 percent, and has plans to increase the plant's generating capacity to 63 MW in 1998.
CMS Gas Transmission owns a 75 percent interest in a general partnership which owns and operates a 25-mile, 16-inch natural gas transmission pipeline in Jackson and Ingham Counties, Michigan; owns a 24 percent limited partnership interest in the Saginaw Bay Area Limited Partnership which owns 125 miles of 10-inch and 16-inch natural gas transmission pipeline in north-central Michigan; owns a 44 percent limited partnership interest in a partnership that owns certain pipelines of 20 and 12 miles interconnected to the Saginaw Bay Area Limited Partnership facilities; owns natural gas treating plants in Otsego County, Michigan; owns 41 miles of gas transmission pipeline in Otsego and Montmorency Counties, Michigan; owns and operates the Bluewater Pipeline, a 3.1 mile pipeline from an interconnection with Consumers natural gas transmission system to an interconnection with an existing pipeline at the St. Clair River, south of Port Huron, Michigan; and owns a 25 percent general partnership interest in TGN, which owns and operates 2,600 miles of pipeline that provides natural gas transmission service to the northern and central parts of Argentina.
In 1996, CMS Gas Transmission commenced operations of the Little Bear Pipeline, a 46 mile pipeline originating in Montmorency County, Michigan at an interconnection with the Thunder Bay Pipeline to the carbon dioxide processing facility at South Chester, Otsego County, Michigan.
In January 1996, CMS Gas Transmission acquired Petal Gas Storage Company, a natural gas storage facility located in Forrest County, Mississippi. The salt dome storage cavern provides up to 3.2 bcf per day of ten day storage service and has the capability of being refilled in 20 days.
In January 1996, CMS Gas Transmission acquired a 50 percent ownership interest in Nitrotec Corporation, a proprietary gas technology company, which recently received patents for its helium removal and nitrogen rejection processes. Nitrotec has helium recovery plants in Colorado and Kansas. A nitrogen rejection plant in Texas was placed in service in 1996, with another nitrogen rejection plant scheduled to be placed in service during the first quarter of 1997.
Through the Cherokee Gas Processing partnership, formed in May 1996, CMS Gas Transmission owns an 82 percent interest in the Lucien, Crescent and Ames gas gathering systems and processing plants located in Oklahoma. The Lucien facilities include 380 miles of low-pressure gas-gathering lines and five compressor stations in Garfield, Logan, Noble and Payne counties in Oklahoma. It also includes a 10 million cubic feet per day processing plant in Noble county. The Crescent and Ames systems, acquired by the partnership in October 1996, contained 1,634 miles of low-pressure gathering lines, 23,500 HP of compression and a 45 million cubic feet per day processing plant west of Guthrie, Oklahoma. A portion of the Ames system consisting of 139 miles of low-pressure gathering lines and 2,395 HP of compression was sold in January 1997.
CMS Energy, through certain subsidiaries, owns a 50 percent interest in Bay Harbor Limited Liability Company, a resort development in Emmet County, Michigan, owns 6,000 acres of undeveloped land in Benzie and Manistee Counties, Michigan, and owns 53 acres of undeveloped land in Muskegon County, Michigan.
CONSUMERS CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Capital expenditures during 1996 for Consumers and its subsidiaries totaled $441 million for capital additions and $6 million for DSM programs. Of the $441 million, $304 million was incurred for electric utility additions and $137 million for gas utility additions. These capital additions include $34 million for environmental protection additions and $31 million for capital leases of nuclear fuel and other assets. The electric and gas utility additions include an attributed portion of capital expenditures common to both businesses.
In 1997, capital expenditures are estimated to be $387 million for capital additions. Of the $387 million, $272 million will be incurred for electric utility additions and $115 million for gas utility additions. These capital addition estimates include $21 million related to environmental protection additions and $28 million related to capital leases of nuclear fuel and other assets. The estimated electric and gas utility additions include an attributed portion of anticipated capital expenditures common to both businesses.
CMS ENERGY CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Capital expenditures during 1996 for CMS Energy and its subsidiaries totaled $873 million for capital additions and $6 million for DSM programs. Of the $873 million, $441 million was incurred by Consumers as discussed above. The remaining $432 million in capital additions include $88 million for oil and gas exploration and development, $142 million for independent power production, $136 million for natural gas transmission, storage and marketing, $64 million for international energy distribution and $2 million for other capital expenditures. These capital additions include $34 million for environmental protection additions and $31 million for capital leases of nuclear fuel and other assets.
In 1997, capital expenditures are estimated to be $965 million for capital additions. Of the $965 million, $387 million will be incurred by Consumers as discussed above. The remaining $578 million in capital additions are estimated to be incurred as follows: $135 million for oil and gas exploration and development; $196 million for independent power production; $110 million for natural gas transmission and storage; $120 million for international energy distribution; and $17 million for marketing services and trading. These capital addition estimates include $21 million related to environmental protection additions and $28 million related to capital leases of nuclear fuel and other assets.
ITEM 3.