Item 2. Properties) Any future development would be subject to, among other things, the Company's ability to obtain necessary financing. No assurance can be given that the Company will obtain development financing or develop successfully the Las Vegas Strip property.
BILOXI, MISSISSIPPI - TREASURE BAY
In April 1994, Santa Fe Inc. purchased from Treasure Bay Gaming & Resorts Inc. ("Treasure Bay") for $10.0 million approximately 20% of Treasure Bay's common stock and 33 1/3% of Treasure Bay's preferred stock. In connection with its stock purchase, Santa Fe Inc. entered into an agreement with Treasure Bay to manage both properties. However, in December 1994, Treasure Bay notified the Company that Treasure Bay was assuming management control of Treasure Bay's properties and alleged that the Company was in default under the management agreement. On January 10, 1995, Treasure Bay and its operating subsidiary, Treasure Bay Corp., filed for Chapter 11 relief in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. The operations of Treasure Bay currently consist solely of a riverboat casino in Biloxi, Mississippi. Treasure Bay's management, the Company and an ad hoc committee of Treasure Bay bondholders have each filed plans of reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. On October 7, 1996, U.S. Bankruptcy Court denied confirmation of Treasure Bay management's confirmation plan. Subsequent to the denial of Treasure Bay's confirmation plan, the entire bankruptcy case was transferred to U.S. Bankruptcy Court of New Orleans, LA.
The U.S. Bankruptcy Court of New Orleans ordered that the reorganization plans and disclosure statements be filed no later than December 23, 1996. The Company filed an amended reorganization plan and disclosure statement on December 23, 1996 (the "Amended Plan"). The Court scheduled a hearing on the disclosure statements for January 29, 1997.
The Amended Plan contemplates that, subject to various conditions, the various classes of secured and unsecured creditors of Treasure Bay agree to accept modifications to, and reductions in outstanding amounts of, Treasure Bay's outstanding obligations and the Company make a cash equity contribution to acquire 100% of the equity interests in Treasure Bay. No assurance can be given that the Company's plan will be confirmed by the Court. Additionally, the Company may elect not to proceed with its plan or the Company may amend its current reorganization plan one or more times resulting in changes to the amount and terms of debt of the reorganized debtor and equity ownership acquired.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Santa Fe --Treasure Bay." See "Legal Proceedings" for information regarding litigation between the Company and certain of its officers and certain current and former officers of Treasure Bay.
NEVADA REGULATIONS AND LICENCING
The Company, Pioneer Inc., and Santa Fe Inc., (collectively, the "Santa Fe Group") are subject to extensive state and local regulation by the Nevada Gaming Commission, Nevada Gaming Control Board and in the case of Pioneer Hotel, Inc. and Santa Fe Hotel, Inc., the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board and the City of Las Vegas, respectively, (collectively the "Nevada Gaming Authorities").
The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities seek (i) to prevent unsavory or unsuitable persons from having any direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity, (ii) to establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures, (iii) to maintain effective control over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping, and making periodic reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities, (iv) to prevent cheating and fraudulent practices, and (v) to provide a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees. Changes in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on any or all of the members of the Santa Fe Group.
Licensing and Registration. Pioneer Inc. and Santa Fe Inc. hold Nevada -------------------------- State gaming licenses to operate the Pioneer and the Santa Fe, respectively (collectively the "Operating Companies"). The Company has been approved by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to own, directly or indirectly, a beneficial interest in the Operating Companies.
The licenses held by members of the Santa Fe Group are not transferable. Each issuing agency may at any time revoke, suspend, condition, limit or restrict licenses or approvals to own a beneficial interest in an Operating Company for any cause deemed reasonable by such agency. Any failure to retain a valid license or approval would have a material adverse effect on all members of the Santa Fe Group.
If it is determined that the Operating Companies or, when applicable, new members of the Santa Fe Group, have violated the Nevada laws or regulations relating to gaming, the Operating Companies or, when applicable, new members of the Santa Fe Group, could, under certain circumstances, be fined and the licenses of the Operating Companies or, when applicable, new members of the Santa Fe Group, could also be limited, conditioned, revoked or suspended. A violation under any of the licenses held by the Company, or any of the Operating Companies or, when applicable, new members of the Santa Fe Group, may be deemed a violation of all the other licenses held by the Company and each of the Operating Companies or, when applicable, new members of the Santa Fe Group. If the Nevada Gaming Commission does petition for a supervisor to manage the affected casino and hotel facilities, the suspended or former licensees shall not receive any earnings of the gaming establishment until approved by the court, and after deductions for the costs of the supervisor's operation and expenses and amounts necessary to establish a reserve fund to facilitate continued operation in light of any pending litigation, disputed claims, taxes, fees, and other contingencies known to the supervisor which may require payment. The supervisor is authorized to offer the gaming establishment for sale if requested by the suspended or former licensee, or without such a request after six months after the date the license was suspended, revoked, or not renewed.
Individual Licensing. Stockholders, directors, officers and certain key -------------------- employees of corporate licensees must be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. An application for licensing of an individual may be denied for any cause deemed reasonable by the issuing agency. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to Nevada Gaming Authorities. In addition to its authority to deny an application for an individual license, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in corporate position. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find any such person unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with a corporate licensee, such licensee would have to suspend, dismiss and sever all relationships with such person. Such corporate licensee would have similar obligations with regard to any person who refuses to file appropriate applications, who is denied licensing following the filing of an application or whose license is revoked. Each gaming employee must obtain a work permit which may be revoked upon the occurrence of certain specified events.
Any individual who is found to have a material relationship or a material involvement with a gaming licensee may be required to be investigated in order to be found suitable or to be licensed. The finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and requires submission of detailed financial information and a full investigation. Key employees, controlling persons or others who exercise significant influence upon the management or affairs of a gaming licensee may be deemed to have such a relationship or involvement.
Beneficial owners of more than 10% of the voting securities of a corporation or partner interests of a partnership registered with the Nevada Gaming Authorities that is "publicly traded" (a "Registered Entity") must be found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities or partner interests, as the case may be, of a Registered Entity must report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Authorities in a filing similar to the beneficial ownership filings required by the Federal securities laws. Under certain circumstances an institutional investor, as such term is defined in the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission and Nevada Gaming Board ("Nevada Gaming Regulations"), that acquires more than 10% of the Company's voting securities may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement. If the stockholder who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners.
Any beneficial owner of equity or debt securities of a Registered Entity (whether or not a controlling stockholder) may be required to be found suitable if the relevant Nevada Gaming Authorities have reason to believe that such ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policy of the State of Nevada. If the beneficial owner who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information, including a list of its securities. In addition, the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board has taken the position that it has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling more than 2% of the stock or partner interests of a Registered Entity, including a gaming licensee or otherwise, or of any corporation, partnership or person controlling such an entity. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.
Any stockholder found unsuitable and who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, any securities or partner interests of a Registered Entity beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be guilty of a gross misdemeanor. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so may be found unsuitable. A Registered Entity is subject to disciplinary
action if, after it receives notice that a person is unsuitable to be a securityholder or partner, as the case may be, or to have any other relationship with it, such Registered Entity (a) pays the unsuitable person any dividends or property upon any voting securities or partner interests or makes any payments or distributions of any kind whatsoever to such person, (b) recognizes the exercise, directly or indirectly, of any voting rights in its securities or partner interests by the unsuitable person, (c) pays the unsuitable person any remuneration in any form for services rendered or otherwise, except in certain and specific circumstances or (d) fails to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to divest himself of his voting securities, including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value.
Registered Entities are required to maintain current stock ledgers, as the case may be, in the State of Nevada that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities or partner interests are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record owner unsuitable. Record owners are required to conform to all applicable rules and regulations of the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Licensees also are required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of a beneficial owner.
The Nevada Gaming Authorities have the power to require that certificates representing voting securities of a corporate licensee bear a legend to the general effect that such voting securities or partner interests are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations thereunder. The Nevada Gaming Authorities, through the power to regulate licensees, have the power to impose additional restrictions on the holders of such voting securities at any time.
Financial Responsibility. Each of the Company and the Operating Companies ------------------------ is required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Substantially all loans, leases, sales of securities and other financial transactions entered into by the Company or the Operating Companies must be reported to and, in some cases, approved by the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
Certain Transactions. None of the Santa Fe Group may make a public -------------------- offering of its securities without the approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission if the proceeds therefrom are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. Such approval, if given, will not constitute a recommendation or approval of the investment merits of the securities offered. The Offering requires the approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission.
Changes in control of the Company through merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets, management or consulting agreements or any form of takeover cannot occur without the prior investigation of the Nevada Gaming Control Board and approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Commission may require controlling stockholders, partners, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement, to be licensed.
The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and other corporate defense tactics that affect corporate gaming licensees in Nevada, and corporations whose securities are publicly traded that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Gaming Commission has established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada's gaming industry and to further Nevada's policy to (i) assure the financial stability of corporate or partnership gaming operators and their affiliates; (ii) preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and (iii) promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate or partnership affairs. Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Gaming Commission before the Company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof (commonly referred to as "greenmail") and before an acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. Nevada's gaming regulations also require prior approval by the Nevada Gaming Commission if the Company were to adopt a plan of recapitalization proposed by the Company's Board of Directors in opposition to a tender offer made directly to the stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control of the Company.
Miscellaneous. Pursuant to recent changes in Nevada law, the Company, and ------------- its affiliates, including subsidiaries may engage in gaming activities outside the State of Nevada without seeking the approval of the Nevada Gaming Authorities provided that such activities are lawful in the jurisdiction where they are to be conducted and that certain information regarding the foreign operation is provided to the Nevada Gaming Board on a periodic basis. The Company and its Nevada-based affiliates may be disciplined by the Nevada Gaming Commission if any of them violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation, fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engages in activities that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employs a person in the foreign operation who had been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability.
License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the Company and the Operating Companies' respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable either monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon either: (i) a percentage of the gross gaming revenues received by the casino operation; (ii) the number of slot machines operated by the casino; or (iii) the number of table games operated by the casino. A casino entertainment tax is also paid by the licensee where entertainment is furnished in connection with the selling of food or refreshments.
Finally, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require that lenders to licensees, including each holder of Notes, be investigated to determine if they are suitable and, if found unsuitable, may require that they dispose of their loans (including the Notes).
Item 2. Properties ----------
The Santa Fe is located on a 40-acre site in the northwest part of Las Vegas, approximately nine miles from the north end of the Las Vegas Strip. See "Business-- Description of the Hotel-Casinos" for more detailed information regarding the Santa Fe. The Santa Fe property is subject to a first priority deed of trust securing 11% First Mortgage Notes due December 2000 ("11% Notes"). As of September 30, 1996, $99.4 million principal amount of 11% Notes was outstanding.
The Pioneer is located on approximately 12 acres of land, with Colorado River frontage of approximately 770 feet, and is situated near the center of Laughlin's Casino Drive. Approximately 6.5 acres of the 12-acre Pioneer site is leased from an unaffiliated third party pursuant to a lease expiring in 2078. One of the Pioneer's three motel buildings, a portion of a second motel building and a portion of the casino building are located on the leased property. The Pioneer property is subject to a first deed of trust securing 13 1/2% First Mortgage Notes due December 1, 1998 ("13 1/2% Notes"). As of September 30, 1996, $60.0 million principal amount of the 13 1/2% Notes was outstanding.
In November 1993, Santa Fe Inc. acquired an approximately 22-acre parcel of property across the street from the Santa Fe Inc. In May 1996, the Company purchased from Santa Fe Inc. the 22-acre parcel for $2.85 million which the Company and Santa Fe believe to be the fair market value of the property. This property is subject to a first deed of trust securing a $1.6 million promisory note due in December 1999.
A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company owns a 39 acre parcel of real property in Henderson, Nevada, located in southeast Las Vegas Valley. The Company is evaluating the potential development of a casino entertainment complex. See "Business - Development Opportunities" for more information regarding the real property.
In October 1995, in connection with the Sahara sale, the Company acquired 27 acres of real property located on the Las Vegas Strip, just south of the Sahara. This property is subject to a first deed of trust securing 12% First Mortgage Notes due December 31, 1999 ("12% Notes"). As of September 30, 1996, $20 million principal amount of the 12% Notes were outstanding. The property is subject to a ground lease, which may be terminated by the Company at any time after December 1996. The Company has guaranteed payments by the tenant of a loan to the prior owner of the property ("tenant loan") and has agreed to pay the loan in full in certain situations, including in the
event the lease is terminated for any reason prior to its scheduled termination date of 2004. The tenant loan, which is amortized through monthly principal and interest payments through December 2004, had an outstanding balance of $5.8 million as of September 30, 1996. See "Business-Development Opportunities" for more information regarding the real property.
The Company owns 40 acres of undeveloped real property located approximately eight miles south of the Las Vegas Strip. In November 1996, the Company entered into an option agreement pursuant to which the option holder has the right to acquire the property at any time before May, 15, 1997. See "Management Discussion and Analysis, Liquidity - Corporate" for more information.
Item 3.