item 2 entitled "Properties".
The Company manufactures plastic compounds utilizing a two stage process consisting of mixing a powder blend of various resins and other ingredients in an intensive mixer, and subsequently melting the powder in a compounding extrusion system for pelletizing the final plastic compound products. Three compounding lines are located in a separate facility in Eatontown, New Jersey, which began operations during October 1982. The Company will continue to purchase small amounts of PVC bottle compounds produced by others for use in the manufacturing of plastic bottles where customers specify a competing material. The capacity of the Company's PVC compounding facility is more than adequate to supply the Company's current requirements for PVC compound. The Company uses its excess PVC compounding capacity to produce PVC bottle compounds and specialty compounds for sale to other plastic processors of PVC bottles and other targeted markets. A description of the Company's compound facility is set forth below in Item 2 entitled "Properties".
Raw Materials. Since the Company completed and opened its PVC compounding facility in 1982, the Company has manufactured for its own use most of the PVC compounds used by it in the manufacture of plastic bottles. The major ingredients used to manufacture such PVC compounds are PVC resins (approximately 85%) and MBS (methacrylate-butadiene-styrene) impact modifiers (approximately 12%). The balance of such ingredients includes heat stabilizers, lubricants, processing aids, and toners (pigments), which materials are readily available from various suppliers. The other raw materials used to manufacture plastic bottles are primarily HDPE and PET. The Company believes it is not dependant upon any single supplier for these major raw materials. The Company relies on multi-year supply contracts for the purchase of these raw materials, and believes that it will be able to purchase sufficient quantities in the foreseeable future.
A shortage of petroleum, should it develop, would have an effect on the availability and the cost of the raw materials used by the Company in connection with its business. The availability and price of resins has a direct effect on the business of the Company. Although sufficient PVC resin, HDPE and PET are currently available for the Company's operations, no assurance can be given that adequate supply of plastic resins will be available to the Company in the future. However, the cost of resin can vary and may have a material impact on the business of the Company. The Company has in the past been able to recover the cost of the resin price increase by increasing the sales price of its plastic bottles and any inability to do so in the future could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial results. Prices for PVC resins as well as HDPE and PET are mostly dependant upon the supply/demand of specific plastic resins as well as their monomer and their feedstocks. See "Competition & Marketing" below.
Inventory. Depending upon the level of demand and scheduling requirements for the Company's products, the Company maintains on average 4-6 weeks of plastic bottles finished goods inventory and approximately 2-3 weeks of plastic compound finished goods inventory. From time to time, depending upon the prices and availability of raw materials (principally PVC resins), the Company will pre-buy or increase inventory of raw materials from a normal 2-3 week supply to up to a 2 month supply, in order to offset anticipated price increases. During peak sales periods, it is sometimes necessary to store inventory of the Company's products and raw materials in outside warehousing.
Backlog. Generally the Company's backlog of unfilled order ranges from approximately four to six weeks.
Competition and Marketing. The Company believes it is one of approximately thirty manufacturers of plastic bottles in the United States, one of at least five manufacturers of PVC bottle compounds and one of at least five manufacturers of specialty compounds for use in the Company's targeted markets. The dominant manufacturers of plastic bottles are Owens-Brockway, Inc. and Silgan Corp. The dominant manufacturers of PVC bottle compounds and PVC specialty compounds are Occidental Chemical Corporation, Geon, Inc., and Georgia Gulf Corporation. The Company's sales volume, production capacity, and consumption of PVC resin are small compared to its competitors. The Company's major PVC compound competitors are large, integrated petrochemical companies with greater financial resources than the Company, many of which also manufacture PVC resin.
The Company principally competes in the plastic bottle market on the basis of quality, customer service and product design. The Company believes it produces a relatively high quality product in a timely manner in accordance with customer specifications and requirements, with a high level of customer service, and believes that this constitutes one of the primary areas in which the Company can compete with others in the same industry.
The Company sometimes purchases its supply of PVC resin from its PVC compound competitors. This has, at times, caused the Company to have difficulty obtaining adequate supplies of PVC resin and has permitted its competitors to increase PVC resin costs charged to the Company, which has resulted in reduced profit margins on PVC bottle compound; profit margins on PVC specialty compounds remain stronger because the Company faces less price competition.
The market for PVC bottles and PVC bottle compounds has declined somewhat during the past several years due to industry concern over the ability to cope with solid waste issues. (See item entitled "Environmental Issues.") Industry demand for PVC bottles and compounds is, however, currently stable. The demand for PVC specialty compounds for use in the Company's targeted markets is experiencing modest growth which is higher than that of PVC bottle compounds. Competition in the area of PVC bottle compounds will remain intense during the foreseeable future because of excess PVC bottle compound manufacturing capacity and because PVC bottle compound buyers are increasingly concerned about price and less concerned about quality and service. In this respect, PVC bottle compound resembles a commodity business. This trend may inhibit the Company from further expanding its share of the PVC bottle compound market.
In response to these pressures in the PVC bottle compound market, the Company is continuing in its effort to develop specialty compounds for a diverse range of targeted markets. The Company believes that these specialty compound markets will be less sensitive to wide swings in the cost of PVC resin and may be more influenced by the performance, quality, and service which is characteristic of a specialty type business. In particular, the Company is marketing injection molding PVC compound for use in the communications, electronics and appliance markets and extrusion compounds for use in, indoor molding and other specialty "profile" markets.
The Company believes its technical, marketing and manufacturing capability in the plastic bottle market is equal to that of its major competitors in small to midsize volume applications in its region, particularly in the toiletry, cosmetic and household chemical product segments, and believes its technical and marketing ability is equal to that of its major competitors in the PVC compound markets in its region; its manufacturing capability for the PVC compound markets is limited by its lack of a facility to produce PVC resin.
A shortage of labor and higher cost of living in New Jersey and the resulting increased employed turnover and difficulty in retaining labor on swing shifts, weekends and holidays influenced the Company's decision to relocate its New Jersey manufacturing facility to Hazelton, Pennsylvania which has a large labor pool. Additionally, the Company has been able to improve its overall costs by expanding and shifting a portion of its business to its lower cost facilities located in Paris, Illinois and Walterboro, South Carolina, and as a result also contributes to making the Company more cost competitive. See "Properties".
As a result of the recent acquisition of the Philmont, New York facility See "General", "Manufacturing Operations" and "Properties", the Company has increased its container decorating capabilities to include automatic silk screen in multiple color applications, pressure sensitive paper and plastic film labels and thermage heat transfer labeling. The Company believes that to more effectively compete in the marketplace, it will eventually be required to establish this capability in some of its other manufacturing facilities.
PVC competes with PET and PETG as a material for use in the manufacture of transparent plastic bottles. Manufacturers of bottles made of PET have captured a portion of the edible oil, household chemical and medicinal segments of the plastic bottle market from PVC bottle manufacturers. Because the price of PET bottles becomes competitive on high volume orders of custom bottles (i.e., orders of more than approximately 5 million to 10 millions units), there is a substantial risk that customers who have large custom bottle requirements may increasingly consider using PET bottles instead of PVC bottles. Because most of the Company's custom bottle business consists of low or mid-range volume orders, the Company's custom bottle business has been less vulnerable to PET. However, recently several stock PET containers of similar shape and size to some of the Company's PVC stock bottles are becoming more prevalent in the Company's markets. Although injection PET tooling is considerably more expensive than PVC extrusion tooling, some components of PET molds and tooling can be shared over several custom or stock designs thereby reducing the higher tooling/mold intensity associated with the injection based PET stock and custom bottle business. The Company has the ability to manufacture PETG bottles by modifying its equipment, and the Company now manufactures and sells PETG bottles. As indicated above, under "Manufacturing Operations", the Company has commenced the manufacture and sale of PET plastic bottles and pre-forms at its facility in Paris, Illinois, Walterboro, South Carolina and Hazelton, Pennsylvania as a defensive and marketing strategy. This new capacity allows the Company to
compete for PET bottle applications in the plastic bottle market. See "Environmental Regulation" below.
Research and Development. The Company spent approximately $240,000 during the past fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 and during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 on research activities relating to the development of new designs of containers and the production of compounds. The major thrust of the Company's research and development efforts is currently in the area of new PVC compound development.
Environmental Regulation. The Company does not believe that compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of material into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has had or will have any material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company. However, the future of PVC as a material for packaging foods has been dampened by the Food and Drug Administration's ("FDA's") unwillingness to implement standards with regard to levels of residual vinyl chloride monomer ("VCM") acceptable for food packaging. Although the FDA's proposed levels of VCM are expected to be easily attainable by the Company's industry, the FDA has been precluded from issuing the standards by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The EPA is insisting that a new environmental impact statement be developed prior to promulgating new standards. The EPA's concern is that the adoption of the FDA's new regulations will stimulate additional demand for PVC bottles and, hence, add to the PVC in the waste stream. The Society of Plastics Industry ("SPI"), and Vinyl Institute ("VI") which represent the PVC industry on this issue, estimates that it will take several years to complete an acceptable environmental impact statement.
In addition, as it is now a supplier of a primary raw material, the Company may have to comply with existing regulations promulgated by the EPA with respect to the emission of VCM into the environment and regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration regarding material safety.
Additionally, solid waste disposal and mandatory recycling have become a major environmental issue with respect to plastic packaging in general. Concerns over the incineration of PVC compounds, which allegedly result in hydrochloric acid and dioxin emissions, have also recently been voiced. Further, the state and national concern over disposal of solid waste has resulted in several states proposing bans of certain plastics including PVC packaging materials. Thus far, however, no bans have been implemented that would affect PVC as a packaging material. The SPI and VI have effectively lobbied state legislatures which have enacted legislation supporting the recycling of plastics. The Company is currently implementing a program that is mandatory in certain states of placing a recycling code on the bottom of most bottles 8 ounces in capacity or larger. The Company believes, however, that the threat of further regulatory actions inhibiting the future growth of PVC as a viable packaging material will be minimal, although no assurances can be given that further regulatory, or the threat of further regulatory action would not have a negative affect on the Company's business.
Employees. As of June 30, 1998 the Company employed 231 people at its Eatontown, New Jersey facility of whom 32 were in executive, administrative and clerical positions, 16 were engaged in sales activities and 183 in general manufacturing. As indicated above under "Manufacturing Operations", the Company relocated in September 1998 its Eatontown, New Jersey
bottling and manufacturing facility to a new facility located in Hazleton, Pennsylvania. The executive offices of the Company will remain in Eatontown, New Jersey until the Eatontown facility is sold and the executive offices will thereafter be relocated in the Eatontown area. There are currently employed 75 people in the new bottling and manufacturing facility in Hazleton, Pennsylvania. The Company employs 99 people at is Paris, Illinois facility, 54 people at its Walterboro, S.C. facility, 75 people at Airopak Corporation in its Manchester, Pennsylvania facility, 150 people at its Philmont, New York facility and a total of 85 people at Kingston, New York and the Ardmore, Oklahoma facilities. The Company renewed its collective bargaining agreement with Local 1008 of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, FL-CIO, effective September 1, 1997 until August 31, 2000. The Company considers its relations with its work force and the union to be good.
Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales
The Company had export sales of $6,920,000 during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998. Net sales to the northeast of the United States amounted to $22,232,000 during such fiscal year; net sales to the Midwest amounted to $26,339,000; net sales to the southeast amounted to $9,501,000; and net sales to other domestic regions amounted to $4,737,000 during such fiscal year.
Item 2. Properties.
The Company's manufacturing activities with respect to its continuing businesses are conducted at the nine facilities described in the following table:
1. The Eatontown bottle plant manufacturing facility has been located at 401 Industrial Way West, Eatontown, New Jersey on 8.1 acres of real property owned by the Company. The Company's principal executive offices are also located at this location. The building is constructed from concrete panels, and was completed in June 1989. In connection with the construction and acquisition of certain equipment for this facility, the Company obtained financing through the NJEDA. During June 1996 the Company completed the construction of an additional 34,000 sq. foot warehouse and manufacturing space. This expansion was financed by the Company through its revolving credit facility at Fleet Bank N.A. as at June 30, 1996. On September 6, 1996 the Company obtained additional financing in the amount of $1,200,000. See Note 5 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements below. As indicated above, under "Manufacturing Operations" and "Employees", the Company relocated during September 1998 its Eatontown, New Jersey bottling and manufacturing facilities to a new facility located in Hazleton, Pennsylvania on 10 acres of real property owned by the Company. The Hazleton facility is a solid concrete tilt-up facility, sprinklered throughout and consisting of 160,000 square feet of manufacturing space and 151,800 square feet of warehouse space. There are also ten loading docks and a rail siding at the facility.
2. The Company's PVC Compounding manufacturing facility is located at 275 Industrial Way West, Eatontown, New Jersey on 5.5 acres of real property owned by the Company. It contains manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, and administrative offices and is constructed from steel and concrete panels. In March 1994, the Company completed the construction of an additional 21,000 square feet of warehouse and refinanced the facility with a new term Note and mortgage from National Westminster Bank, NJ. See Note 5 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements below.
3. As described in the section entitled "Manufacturing Operations" the Company acquired a business located in Manchester, Pennsylvania. The facilities in Manchester are leased and consist of a manufacturing and warehouse facility in a steel building having a total of 69,140 square feet.
4. Airopak corporation also leases 25,000 square feet of separate warehouse space also in a steel building. The aggregate annual rental payable with respect to the manufacturing and warehouse space for the Airopak Corporation detailed above and in Item 4 is $320,136 plus real estate taxes, utilities and certain other charges payable under net leases which expire on April 30, 1998 with respect to the manufacturing and warehouse facility. It is believed that these facilities are large enough to allow for future growth of the business conducted at these facilities.
5. The Company commenced operations during April, 1993 in a new 62,500 square foot concrete plastic bottle manufacturing facility located in Paris, Illinois. The Company owns this facility and twenty acres of land on which it is located. Financing for this facility was obtained from the Edgar County Bank, the City of Paris, Illinois and the Illinois Small Business Development Agency. In July 1997, the Company completed the construction of an additional 62,500 square feet of warehouse and manufacturing space. This expansion was financed by the Company through the issuance of Industrial Development Revenue Bonds by the City of Paris, Illinois, in the amount of $3,500,000. See Note 5 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements below.
6. In October 1996, the Company completed construction and began operations in a new plastic bottle manufacturing plant located in Walterboro, South Carolina. This facility consists of 61,430 square feet of warehouse and manufacturing space, located on 8.83 acres of real
property which is owned by the Company. Financing for this facility was obtained through the South Carolina Economic Development Authority in the amount of $5,500,000. See Note 5 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements below. See Note 5 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements below.
7. As indicated above under "Manufacturing Operations" the Company acquired on March 30, 1998 the plastic bottling facilities of McKechnie Investments Ltd. The facility consists of 100,000 square feet of warehouse and manufacturing space located on 37_acres of real property owned by the Company.
8. As indicated above under "Manufacturing Operations" the Company acquired on September 3, 1998 the plastic bottling business of Marpac Industries located in Kingston, New York and Ardmore, Oklahoma. The Kingston facility consists of 34,000 square feet of manufacturing, warehouse and office space. The Ardmore, Oklahoma facility consists of 10,000 square feet of manufacturing, warehouse and office space. The Kingston facility is located on approximately 6 acres of real property with 2.4 adjacent acres for expansion and all of which are owned by the Company.
Item 3.