ITEM 2. Properties.
At December 31, 1998, the Company held an average 95% Working Interest in 431 gross and 411 net oil and gas wells and Royalty Interests in two (2) additional wells. The properties contained (net to the Company's interest) estimated Proved Reserves of approximately 1,084,147 barrels of oil and 6,655,355 Mcf of natural gas. As of December 31, 1998, daily production from Company owned and operated wells was 1,000 Mcf and 125 barrels of oil. As of July 31, 1999, daily production had increased to 2,600 Mcf and 350 barrels of oil. Substantially all of the Company's reserves are located in East and West Texas.
Proved Reserves. The following table reflects the estimated Proved Reserves of the Company at December 31 for each of the preceding three years.
(a) The above table does not include reserves for the Company's interests in wells in Louisiana, which represent less than 1% of the Company's reserves.
Approximately 65% of the Company's total Proved Reserves were classified as Proved Developed at December 31, 1998.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows. The following table sets forth as Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows. The following table sets forth as of December 31 for each of the preceding three years, the estimated future net cash flow from and Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows of the Company's Proved Reserves which were prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Future net cash flow represents future gross cash flow from the production and sale of Proved Reserves, net of oil and gas production costs (including production taxes, ad valorem taxes and operating expenses) and future development costs. Such calculations are based on current cost and price factors at December 31 for each year. There can be no assurance that the Proved Reserves will all be developed within the periods used in the calculations or that prices and costs will remain constant.
(1) The average prices of the Company's proved reserves were $8.91 per Bbl and $1.89 per Mcf, $15.68 per Bbl and $2.28 per Mcf and $23.64 per Bbl and $3.91 per Mcf at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
Significant Properties. Substantially all of the Company's properties are located in Texas. Summary information on the Company's properties with Proved Reserves is set forth below as of December 31,1998.
(1) The above table does not include reserves for the Company's interests in wells in Louisiana, which represent less than 1% of the Company's reserves.
(2) The average prices of the Company's proved reserves were $8.91 per Bbl and $1.89 per Mcf at December 31, 1998.
All information set forth herein relating to the Company's Proved Reserves, estimated future net cash flows and Present Values is taken from reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, Forrest Garb and Associates, Inc., Cawley, Gillespie and Associates, Inc. and A. Van Nguyen, independent petroleum engineers. The estimates of these engineers were based upon review of production histories and other geological, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company. No reports on the Company's reserves have been filed with any federal agency. In accordance with the SEC's guidelines, the Company's estimates of Proved Reserves and the future net revenues from which Present Values are derived are made using year end oil and gas sales prices held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides otherwise). Operating costs, development costs and certain production-related taxes were deducted in arriving at estimated future net revenues, but such costs do not include debt service, general and administrative expenses and income taxes.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the Company's control. The reserve data set forth in this report represents estimates only. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating the sizes of underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation, and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development, exploitation and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. There can be no assurance that these estimates are accurate predictions of the Company's oil and gas reserves or their values. Estimates with respect to Proved Reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations, which may be substantial, in the estimated reserves.
Production, Revenue and Price History
The following table sets forth information (associated with the Company's Proved Reserves) regarding production volumes (net to the Company's interest) of crude oil and gas, revenues and expenses attributable to such production and certain price and cost information for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
Productive Wells at December 31, 1998:
Developed Acreage at December 31, 1998:
Undeveloped Acreage. At December 31, 1998, the Company owned 7,000 acres of undeveloped acreage. This included 1,000 acres along the Gulf Coast of Texas and 6,000 acres in Kimble and Sutton Counties, Texas.
Drilling Results. The Company successfully drilled six (6) wells in 1998. In the fourth quarter 1998, the Company drilled a horizontal well by sidetracking an existing wellbore in the Company's Madisonville Field, Texas. This well is producing commercial oil and gas at a daily rate of 165 barrels of oil and 400 Mcf of gas. A gas well was drilled in late 1998 as a vertical hole drilled to 9,600 feet in Hardin County, Texas. This well is currently being tested for commercial completion. The Company also drilled five (5) 1,500' depth wells in its Vaughn Waterflood field in early 1998. One (1) of the wells was a water injection well, three (3) were producing oil wells, and one (1) was plugged for mechanical reasons. The Company did not drill any wells during the years ended December 31, 1997 or 1996.
Risk Factors
Substantial Leverage
The degree to which the Company is leveraged could have important consequences to shareholders, including the following: (i) the Company's indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired, (ii) funds available to the Company for its operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures will be reduced as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of the Company's consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of the principal and interest on its indebtedness, (iii) the Company may be more highly leveraged than certain of its competitors, which may place it at a competitive disadvantage, (iv) the agreements governing the Company's and its subsidiaries' long-term indebtedness and bank loans contain restrictive financial and operating covenants, (v) an event of default (not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in the Company's or its subsidiaries' debt instruments could occur and have a material adverse effect on the Company, (vi) certain of the borrowings under debt agreements of the Company's subsidiaries have floating rates of interest, which causes the Company and its subsidiaries to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates and (vii) the Company's substantial degree of leverage could make it more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions.
The ability of the Company to make principal and interest payments under long-term indebtedness and bank loans will be dependent upon its future performance, which is subject to financial, economic and other factors affecting the Company, some of which are beyond its control. There can be no assurance that the current level of operating results of the Company will continue or improve. The Company believes that it will need to access the capital markets in the future in order to provide the funds necessary to repay a significant portion of its indebtedness. There can be no assurance that any such refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing can be obtained, particularly in view of the Company's anticipated high levels of debt. If no such refinancing or additional financing were available, the Company and/or its subsidiaries could default on their respective debt obligations.
Market Conditions and Prices
The Company's success depends heavily upon its ability to market its oil and gas production at favorable prices, of which there can be no assurance. In recent decades, there have been both periods of worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis; these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. The excess or short supply of oil and gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations.
Historical Operating Losses and Variability of Operating Results
The Company has incurred net losses since its inception and there can be no assurance that the Company will be profitable in the future. In addition, the Company's future operating results may fluctuate significantly depending upon a number of factors, including industry conditions, prices of oil and gas, rates of production, timing of capital expenditures and drilling success. This variability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
Uncertainty of Estimates of Oil and Gas Reserves
This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues therefrom that rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions as to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each Reservoir. As a result, such estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated in the reports obtained by the Company from reserve engineers. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and Present Value of reserves set forth in this report. In addition, the Company's Proved Reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to the Company's reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and such variances may be material.
Approximately 35% of the Company's total estimated Proved Reserves at December 31, 1998 were undeveloped, which are by their nature less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data set forth in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures by the Company will be required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to the Company's oil and gas reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, no assurance can be given that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results will be as estimated.
The Present Value referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), the estimated discounted future net cash flows from Proved Reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. The estimates at December 31, 1998 of the Company's
Proved Reserves and the future net revenues from which Present Value is derived were made using actual prices on a property-by-property basis at December 31, 1998. The average prices of all properties were $8.91 per barrel of oil and $1.89 per Mcf of natural gas at that date. Actual future net cash flows will also be affected by increases or decreases in consumption by oil and gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of actual future net cash flows from Proved Reserves, and thus their actual Present Value, will be affected by the timing of both the production and the incurring of expenses in connection with development and production of oil and gas properties. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general.
Replacement of Reserves
In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires properties containing Proved Reserves or conducts successful development and exploitation activities, or both, the Proved Reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. The Company's future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon its level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. The business of acquiring, enhancing or developing reserves is capital intensive. To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the Company's ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand its asset base of oil and gas reserves would be impaired. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company's future acquisition and development activities will result in additional Proved Reserves or that the Company will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs.
Industry Risks
Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These risks include the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas Reservoirs will be encountered, that operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, and that title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements, mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment may limit the Company's ability to develop, produce and market its reserves.
There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by the Company will be productive or that the Company will recover all or any portion of its investment. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, the Company's properties may be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties.
Industry operating risks include the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. The Company cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase.
Acquisition Risks
The Company's growth has been attributable largely to acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties with Proved Reserves. The successful acquisition of such properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond the Company's control. Such assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, the Company performs a review of the subject properties that it believes to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In most cases, the Company is not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and generally acquires interests in the properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In those circumstances in which the Company has contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, there can be no assurance that the seller will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, competition for producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of the Company's competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to the Company. Therefore, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to acquire producing oil and gas properties which contain economically recoverable reserves or that it will make such acquisitions at acceptable prices.
Risks as to Minority or Royalty Interest Purchases
The Company may acquire less than the controlling Working Interest or Overriding (or other forms of) Royalty Interests in oil and gas properties. In such cases, it is likely that the Company would not operate these properties. The Company would limit such acquisitions to properties operated by competent entities with which the Company has discussed the operator's plans for the properties, but the Company will not have complete control over decisions affecting such properties.
Environmental Liability
Oil and gas activities can result in liability under federal, state and local environmental regulations for activities involving, among other things, water pollution and hazardous waste transport, storage, and disposal. Such liability can attach not only to the operator of record of the well, but also to other parties that may be deemed to be current or prior operators or owners of the wells or the equipment involved.
Substantial Capital Requirements
The Company makes and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in its exploitation and development projects. The Company intends to finance these capital expenditures, in part, with the net proceeds from future equity offerings, cash flow from operations and its existing financing arrangements. Additional financing will be required in the future to fund the Company's developmental and exploitation activities. No assurance can be given as to the availability or terms of any such additional financing that may be required or that financing will continue to be available under the existing or new financing arrangements. If additional capital resources are not available to the Company, its developmental and other activities may be curtailed and its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Marketability of Production
The marketability of the Company's natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Most of the Company's natural gas is delivered through natural gas gathering systems and natural gas pipelines that are not owned by the Company. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions all could adversely affect the Company's ability to produce and market its oil and gas. Any dramatic change in market factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Competition
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive in all its phases. Competition is particularly intense with respect to the acquisition of desirable producing properties, the acquisition of oil and gas prospects suitable for enhanced recovery efforts, and the hiring of experienced personnel. The competitors of the Company in oil and gas acquisition, development, and production include the major oil companies in addition to numerous independent oil and gas companies, individual proprietors and drilling programs. Many of these competitors possess and employ financial and personnel resources substantially in excess of those which are available to the Company and may, therefore, be able to pay more for desirable producing properties and prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for, and purchase a greater number of producing properties and prospects than the financial or personnel resources of the Company will permit. The ability of the Company to acquire additional reserves in the future will be dependent on the Company's ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects in competition with these companies.
Governmental Regulation
Domestic exploration for and production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations affecting the oil and gas industry which often are difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. State statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, and reports concerning operations. Most states in which the Company will operate also have statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of properties and the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells. Many state statutes and regulations may limit the rate at which oil and gas could otherwise be produced from acquired properties. Some states have also enacted statutes prescribing ceiling prices for natural gas sold within their states. The Company's operations are also subject to numerous laws and regulations governing plugging and abandonment, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The heavy regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its costs of doing business and consequently affects its profitability. Although the Company believes it is in compliance with such laws, rules and regulations, there can be no assurance that a change in such laws, rules or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Dependence on Key Personnel
The business of the Company will depend on the continued services of its chief executive officer, Marshall A. Smith III and its president, Thomas R. Kaetzer. Effective September 9, 1997 and December 14, 1998 respectively, the Company entered into employment agreements with Mr. Smith and Mr. Kaetzer for a period of three years. The loss of the services of Mr. Smith or Mr. Kaetzer would be particularly detrimental to the Company because of their background and experience in the oil and gas industry.
Delisting by The Nasdaq SmallCap Market
Effective April 7, 1999, the Company's Common Stock was delisted by The Nasdaq SmallCap Market due to the Company's failure to evidence compliance with the net tangible assets standard and failure to maintain the minimum bid price requirement necessary for continued listing. The Company has requested a review of the Nasdaq delisting decision, however there can be no assurance that the decision will be reversed. The Company's Common Stock is traded over-the-counter and is listed on the Boston Stock Exchange.
No Dividends on Common Stock
The Company's Board of Directors presently intends to retain all of the Company's earnings for the expansion of its business, except as required by the terms of the preferred stock. The Company therefore does not anticipate the distribution of cash dividends on its Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Further, the holders of outstanding Class AA and Class AAA preferred stock are entitled to receive annual dividends of $50 and $45 per share, respectively, and all cumulative dividends must be paid prior to the payment of any dividends on the Common Stock. Any future decision of the Company's Board of Directors to pay cash dividends will depend, among other factors, upon the Company's earnings, financial position, and cash requirements.
Preemptive Rights, Cumulative Voting and Control
Holders of the Company's Common Stock have no preemptive rights in connection with such shares. The shareholders may be further diluted in their percentage ownership of the Company if the Company issues additional shares. Cumulative voting in the election of directors is prohibited. Accordingly, the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present, in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all the members of the Company's Board of Directors.
ITEM 3.