Item 2. Properties
The Resorts
The table below sets forth certain information, as of December 31, 2007, with respect to the ILX resorts. The information set forth below does not include expansion of the ILX resorts or development of additional Varsity Clubs and CARs. As described in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, all of the Company’s owned resorts are encumbered by one or more deeds of trust.
“S” indicates studio unit; “1 BR” indicates one-bedroom unit; “2 BR” indicates two-bedroom unit. Units with the same number of bedrooms may vary in size and amenities.
Information regarding the Additional Interests and Vacation Ownership Interests in the Carriage House, the Roundhouse Resort and Scottsdale Camelback Resort has not been included in the following chart, as the Company only owns a number of Vacation Ownership Interests at such resorts and does not own any of such resorts.
B - Basketball, BB - Bocce Ball, BL - Billiards, BO - Boating, BS - Bird Sanctuary, C - Casino, D - Dining, F - Fishing, FW - Four Wheel Tours, G - Golf, H - Horseback Riding, L - Labyrinth, M - Museums, MT - Movie Theater, Sh - Shopping, SS - Snow Skiing, T - Tennis, TH - Trail Hiking, UC - University Campus, V - Volleyball, W - Watersports.
Includes the Celebrity House which is adjacent to Los Abrigados and Winner’s Circle units currently under construction.
Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort guests have access to the pool and other amenities, including basketball and racquetball courts and the recreation center at the adjacent Roundhouse Resort under a usage agreement.
The Los Abrigados Lodge is not registered nor marketed for sale as Vacation Ownership Interests. Los Abrigados Lodge is operated under a long-term lease arrangement that is explained in more detail below.
Description of ILX Resorts
Los Abrigados Resort & Spa. Los Abrigados Resort & Spa (“Los Abrigados”) is located in Sedona, Arizona, approximately 110 miles from Phoenix, Arizona. This resort consists of 186 units situated on approximately 20 acres of lush landscaping and Spanish-styled plazas, winding walkways and bridges. Los Abrigados offers one- and two-bedroom units each with a separate living area, bedroom, mini-kitchen or full kitchen and balcony or patio. Thirty suites offer a fireplace and either a private outdoor whirlpool spa or indoor jetted tub as well. The Celebrity House is a luxury stand-alone unit adjacent to the property and includes its own pool, spa, fireplace and full size kitchen. Los Abrigados is designed in southwestern décor and is surrounded by the dramatic red rocks of Oak Creek Canyon. This resort has an on-site sales office.
Amenities at the resort include two restaurants and off-track betting, billiards emporium, library, two pools, outdoor whirlpool spa, tennis courts, sports court, basketball court, bocce ball court, miniature golf, bird sanctuary, labyrinth, fitness center and health spa offering a variety of personal care services, aerobic and yoga classes, indoor whirlpools, steam and sauna rooms, hydrotherapy and other personal care facilities. In addition, golf, horseback riding, jeep, helicopter and hot air balloon rides, and other outdoor activities are easily accessible. Los Abrigados is an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, Los Abrigados contained 9,672 Vacation Ownership Interests, of which approximately 118.5 remained available for sale (excluding 4,652.5 Vacation Ownership Interests owned by Premiere Vacation Club). The Company believes there exist additional expansion opportunities at and contiguous to Los Abrigados. The Company, through its ownership in ILX-Bruno LLC (“ILX-Bruno”), purchased approximately 22 acres of land adjacent to Los Abrigados in 2005 and plans to develop Legacy Park, which includes 82 units or 4,264 Vacation Ownership Interests, on a portion of the land.
The Inn at Los Abrigados. The Inn at Los Abrigados is located in Sedona, Arizona, approximately 110 miles from Phoenix, Arizona. This resort consists of ten units adjacent to Los Abrigados. The Inn at Los Abrigados includes the main Morris House and nine bed and breakfast-style units in three buildings situated amidst a former apple orchard. The Morris House is a multi-level luxury suite sleeping six, and features a sunken living room, full kitchen with dining area, a loft, two full bathrooms and a private backyard with patio and barbecue. The bed and breakfast-style units each feature king beds, a sitting area, microwave, refrigerator, coffee maker, full bath with shower and balcony or patio. Guests of the Inn at Los Abrigados have charge privileges at and full use of all Los Abrigados amenities. The Inn at Los Abrigados is an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, the Inn at Los Abrigados contained 510 Vacation Ownership Interests, of which approximately 105.5 remained available for sale (excluding 337 Vacation Ownership Interests owned by Premiere Vacation Club).
Kohl’s Ranch Lodge. Kohl’s Ranch is a 10.5-acre property located 17 miles northeast of Payson, Arizona and approximately 105 miles from Phoenix, Arizona. It is bordered on the eastern side by Tonto Creek and is surrounded by the Tonto National Forest, which is believed to be the largest stand of Ponderosa Pines in the world. Kohl’s Ranch consists of 66 units. Forty-one of the units are at the main lodge, 20 units consist of one- and two-bedroom freestanding cabins along Tonto Creek, three units are in a triplex cabin and two are in a duplex cabin overlooking the creek, including the Horton House which is a luxury unit that sleeps eight and features a large deck with a barbecue, two full bedrooms and baths and a library. This resort has an on-site sales office.
Kohl’s Ranch offers a variety of common area amenities including an outdoor heated pool, outdoor whirlpool spa, exercise room, putting green, bocce ball court, children’s playground, gazebos, sport court and pole barn. Each unit at the resort offers a mini-kitchenette or full kitchen, and many have a fireplace. In addition, Kohl’s Ranch offers a unique pet resort facility. Kohl’s Ranch is an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, Kohl’s Ranch contained 3,432 Vacation Ownership Interests, of which 2,988 Vacation Ownership Interests are owned by Premiere Vacation Club and 443 are owned by others.
The Historic Crag’s Lodge at the Golden Eagle Resort. The Historic Crag’s Lodge at the Golden Eagle Resort (“Golden Eagle”) is a four-acre property located in the town of Estes Park, Colorado, within three miles of Rocky Mountain National Park and approximately 70 miles from Denver, Colorado. This resort consists of 33 units and is bounded generally by undeveloped forested mountainside land, which provides excellent mountain views from the resort.
Golden Eagle is centered around the historic Crag’s Lodge, a four-story wood frame building constructed in the early 1900s, which is listed on the National Registry of Historic Places by the United States Department of the Interior, and serves as the resort’s main lodge. Amenities offered at this resort include a restaurant, bar and a gathering and recreation area with a stone fireplace, as well as six guest rooms in a freestanding building. Each unit at Golden Eagle features a kitchenette, and living and dining areas. Additional amenities at this resort include a heated pool and spa as well as local outdoor attractions. Golden Eagle is both an RCI and an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, Golden Eagle contained 1,683 one-week Vacation Ownership Interests, of which eight were available for sale (excluding 1,201 Vacation Ownership Interests owned by Premiere Vacation Club). The Company may construct a minimum of two additional units in the future, which would yield an additional 102 Vacation Ownership Interests.
Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club. Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club is an ocean front property on the Sea of Cortez in San Carlos, Sonora, Mexico. The Company, through Premiere Vacation Club, has acquired 1,500 one-week 25-year right-to-use Vacation Ownership Interests in 30 studio, one- and two- bedroom units in the Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club. The Company has the option to extend the right-to-use period for an additional 25-year period provided it is not in default under the right-to-use agreement. The option is exercisable by the Company during the last five years of the initial term, at terms to be negotiated by the parties at that date. The Company markets such Vacation Ownership Interests exclusively through Premiere Vacation Club.
Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club has a swimming pool, outdoor restaurant and lounge, beach access, and each unit has an ocean view, a separate living area, bedroom(s), full kitchen and balcony or patio. In addition, water sports equipment, golf, horseback riding and other outdoor activities are easily accessible. This resort has an on-site sales office. Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club is an II resort.
All 1,500 Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club Vacation Ownership Interests have been annexed into Premiere Vacation Club.
Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock. Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock, in the Village of Oak Creek, Arizona is located approximately six miles south of Los Abrigados Resort & Spa. The resort consists of 85 studio, one and two-bedroom units, most of which include a fireplace and full or mini-kitchen facilities on approximately four acres of land. Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock has two heated pools, a whirlpool spa and outdoor fireplaces. Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock is an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock contained 4,420 Vacation Ownership Interests, all of which are annexed into Premiere Vacation Club.
Rancho Mañana Resort. Rancho Mañana Resort is located in Cave Creek, Arizona, approximately 25 miles from Phoenix, Arizona. Surrounded by the high Sonoran desert, this resort offers 19 luxuriously appointed and spacious casitas on approximately two acres. The casitas are 1,500 square feet and include two bedrooms, two bathrooms, a whirlpool tub in the master bathroom, a fireplace and a full kitchen. Amenities at the resort include a lagoon style pool and hot tub, outdoor gas barbeque grills and an adobe fireplace. The property is adjacent to a European style spa and athletic club, an 18-hole championship golf course and a full service restaurant and lounge (all operated by third parties). Rancho Mañana is an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, Rancho Mañana contained 988 Vacation Ownership Interests, all of which are annexed into Premiere Vacation Club.
Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort. Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort is located in Pinetop/Lakeside Arizona. The resort consists of 21 two-bedroom log-sided cabins on four acres of land in the White Mountains of northeastern Arizona, approximately 190 miles from Phoenix. The resort also contains a miniature golf course. Guests at Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort have use privileges of the recreation center at the adjacent Roundhouse Resort. The recreation center contains an indoor pool, racquetball and basketball courts and other recreational opportunities. The resort is an II resort and is proximate to golf courses, skiing and snowboarding, horseback riding and other outdoor activities.
As of December 31, 2007, Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort contains 1,092 Vacation Ownership Interests, all of which are annexed to Premiere Vacation Club.
Roundhouse Resort. The Roundhouse Resort is a fully sold out 59-unit timeshare resort located on 9.5 acres adjacent to Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort. The resort is an RCI resort. At an elevation of 7,200 feet, the Roundhouse Resort is set in a location that offers four seasons, a distinct contrast to Arizona’s arid lowlands.
As of December 31, 2007, 191 of the 193 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Roundhouse Resort acquired by the Company have been annexed into Premiere Vacation Club.
VCA-South Bend. The Company’s first Varsity Clubs facility is an approximately four acre property located three miles from the University of Notre Dame and Notre Dame Stadium in South Bend, Indiana, which is 90 miles from Chicago, Illinois. VCA-South Bend offers 86 units consisting of one- and two-bedroom suites.
Each one- and two-bedroom suite at VCA-South Bend includes a king master bedroom, living room with sofa sleeper, kitchenette and whirlpool spa. Common areas at the resort include the Stadium Sports Lounge, which offers a variety of food and beverages and features a theater-wall television in a stadium-type setting, fitness center with whirlpool spa, indoor/outdoor heated pool, bocce ball, children’s playground, billiards room, putting green, library, gift shop, business center and special events facilities. VCA-South Bend is an II resort.
As of December 31, 2007, this resort contained 4,472 one-week Vacation Ownership Interests, of which 258 were available for sale (excluding 3,028.5 Vacation Ownership Interests owned by Premiere Vacation Club).
VCA-Tucson. The second Varsity Clubs resort is a two-acre property located in Tucson, Arizona, approximately three miles from the University of Arizona and 110 miles from Phoenix, Arizona. VCA-Tucson offers 60 units, consisting of studio, one- and two-bedroom suites. This resort has an on-site sales office.
VCA-Tucson was designed in accordance with the VCA-South Bend prototype, with certain modifications for operating efficiencies and to reflect the regional style. Each of the suites includes a king master bedroom, living room with sofa sleeper, kitchenette and whirlpool spa. Amenities at this resort include a Sports Lounge designed similar to that at VCA-South Bend, the Twenty-Four Hour Sports Ticker, Joey Pizza (a restaurant theme originally introduced at Los Abrigados), billiards room, putting green, library, gift shop, fitness center, outdoor heated pool, whirlpool spa, steam room, children’s playground and special events facilities. VCA-Tucson is an II resort.
At December 31, 2007, this resort contained 3,120 one-week Vacation Ownership Interests, of which 49 were available for sale (excluding 2,899 Vacation Ownership Interests owned by Premiere Vacation Club).
Los Abrigados Lodge. The Company leases a hotel in uptown Sedona, Arizona. The lease commenced October 1, 2000 and terminates on December 31, 2021 and contains a provision in which the term may be automatically extended for consecutive one-year periods after December 31, 2021 up to December 31, 2038 if the lease has not been terminated prior to December 31, 2021. The property is used for hotel accommodations, mainly for customers invited to attend a vacation ownership presentation at the Company’s Sedona sales office. As of December 31, 2007, this resort contains 39 units. These units are not offered for sale as Vacation Ownership Interests.
The Carriage House
In 2001, the Company acquired 600 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Carriage House in Las Vegas, Nevada and annexed these weeks into Premiere Vacation Club. During 2001 to 2007, the Company has purchased additional inventory and intends to continue to acquire Vacation Ownership Interests in the Carriage House and annex the interests into Premiere Vacation Club in the future. At December 31, 2007, the Company holds 2,160 Vacation Ownership Interests, 2,127 of which have been annexed into Premiere Vacation Club.
The Carriage House is a non-gaming suite hotel located one block off the “Strip” in Las Vegas. The property contains a heated pool, whirlpool, tennis court and basketball court. The Carriage House is an II resort.
Scottsdale Camelback Resort
In 2004, the Company purchased 150 two-bedroom Vacation Ownership Interests in Scottsdale Camelback Resort in Scottsdale, Arizona and annexed those weeks into Premiere Vacation Club. The Company has since purchased additional Vacation Ownership Interests and at December 31, 2007 holds 176, all of which have been annexed into Premiere Vacation Club.
Scottsdale Camelback Resort is located in the foothills of Camelback Mountain. The property contains spacious villas that include full kitchens, fireplaces and garden style bathtubs. The resort’s amenities include a pool, spa, tennis and racquetball courts, fire pit, fitness center and a restaurant. Scottsdale Camelback Resort is an II resort.
Premiere Vacation Club
In January 1998, the Company recorded in Maricopa County, Arizona its proprietary Premiere Vacation Club Membership Plan and in May 1998 annexed a total of 5,000 Vacation Ownership Interests into the Club and received Department of Real Estate approval in the State of Arizona to commence selling Vacation Ownership Interests in Premiere Vacation Club. The Company has since annexed additional units and as of December 31, 2007, Premiere Vacation Club included a total of 25,600 Vacation Ownership Interests. The 25,600 Vacation Ownership Interests annexed into the Club consist of 4,652.5 Vacation Ownership Interests in Los Abrigados (including the Celebrity House and the Winner’s Circle suites currently under construction), 337 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Inn at Los Abrigados, 2,988 Vacation Ownership Interests in Kohl’s Ranch Lodge, 1,201 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Golden Eagle Resort, 1,500 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club, 3,028.5 Vacation Ownership Interests in VCA-South Bend, 2,899 Vacation Ownership Interests in VCA-Tucson, 1,092 Vacation Ownership Interests in Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort, 191Vacation Ownership Interests in the Roundhouse Resort, 2,127 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Carriage House, 4,420 Vacation Ownership Interests in Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock, 988 Vacation Ownership Interests in Rancho Mañana Resort and 176 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Scottsdale Camelback Resort.
At December 31, 2007, 7,913 of the 25,600 Premiere Vacation Club Vacation Ownership Interests were available for sale. Premiere Vacation Club is affiliated with II and memberships in Premiere Vacation Club are offered for sale at each of the Company’s sales offices.
Additional Interests
In addition to the ILX resorts, the Carriage House, and the Roundhouse Resort, ILX owns a designated number of Vacation Ownership Interests at additional resorts owned by unaffiliated third parties. At December 31, 2007, the Company owned eight Vacation Ownership Interests in a resort in South Africa, one right-to-use Vacation Ownership Interest in a resort in Mexico and two in other resorts, all of which it holds for resale.
Land
In June 2005, the Company acquired approximately 2.1 acres of land in Puerto Peñasco (“Rocky Point”), Mexico. The Company intends to develop the land into a resort featuring up to 73 units or 3,796 Vacation Ownership Interests.
The Company, together with James Bruno Enterprises LLC (“Bruno”), formed ILX-Bruno in August 2005 to purchase and develop three parcels approximating 22 acres of land in Sedona, Arizona. The Company holds an 85% interest in ILX-Bruno. In October 2005, ILX-Bruno completed the acquisition of two parcels of the land and acquired the third parcel in June 2006. In November 2006, the Company received the unanimous approval by the City Council of Sedona, Arizona of a requested Community Plan Amendment to construct Legacy Park on the acquired parcels. Proposed plans for Legacy Park include 82 timeshare units (4,264 Vacation Ownership Interests) in three villages, nine workforce housing units, eight luxury condominium residences, two small retail shops, a public park, a Congressional Medal of Honor memorial, facilities for the Sedona Project, which will be a consortium of several significant universities dedicated to innovation in environmental sustainability, hiking trails, and more than ten acres of open space.
Operating Strategies
The Company’s operating strategy seeks to emphasize the following characteristics, which management believes provide ILX with certain competitive advantages within the vacation ownership industry.
Flexible Vacation Ownership Interest Purchase Options. The Company believes the flexibility associated with its inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests provides a uniquely appealing opportunity for ILX owners. Substantially all of the Company’s inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests at the ILX resorts are intended to be used on dates specified from time to time by the ILX owner within a broad range of available dates and not fixed at the time of purchase. Purchasers of a Vacation Ownership Interest in the Company’s proprietary branded Premiere Vacation Club are entitled to use their Vacation Ownership Interest at a single resort in Premiere Vacation Club or may split up their Vacation Ownership Interest according to the owner’s needs and preferences at one or more of any number of participating resorts, as well as thousands of other resorts through the domestic and international exchange programs in which ILX owners participate. In addition, Vacation Ownership Interests at Varsity Clubs may be purchased for highly desirable single-day uses, a collection of single days (such as designated days during an entire football or other sports season) or other packages suited to meet each ILX owner’s preferences.
Customer Satisfaction. The Company believes that its inventory of highly desirable resorts with extensive amenities, combined with flexible purchase options have resulted in a high level of customer satisfaction. Each of the ILX resorts is located in an area with unique tourist attractions and most offer food, beverage and other amenities comparable to full-service commercial lodging facilities, with discounted prices extended to ILX owners at the facilities it operates. As a result, the Company believes ILX owners generally have a high level of satisfaction, resulting in additional purchases and increased goodwill. The Company capitalizes upon this by directing a portion of its marketing efforts towards sales of Vacation Ownership Interests to existing ILX owners.
Enhanced Amenities. Each of the ILX resorts (except the Los Abrigados Lodge, which does not offer Vacation Ownership Interests, the Premiere Vacation Club at the Roundhouse Resort and the Premiere Vacation Club at Bell Rock) has at least one full-service restaurant and other food and beverage facilities in addition to a range of other amenities typically found at high quality resorts. Many resorts offering Vacation Ownership Interests have none or only limited restaurant and other food and beverage facilities. As a result, management believes ILX owners appreciate the ability to enjoy traditional full-service commercial hotel amenities and also maintain the option to use more economical in-room facilities. See “The Resorts.”
Demonstrated Ability to Acquire and Develop Properties. The Company has historically been successful at acquiring resorts in settings of natural beauty at relatively low costs. The Company’s acquisition strategy is to identify underutilized or distressed properties in locations with high tourist appeal and access to major metropolitan centers. Thereafter, the Company’s redevelopment efforts are primarily targeted at improving the amenities and appointments of such properties. The Company has successfully developed its prototype Varsity Clubs of America resort, VCA-South Bend, and a second Varsity Clubs facility, VCA-Tucson. Future Varsity Clubs will be designed and constructed in accordance with the VCA-South Bend prototype, with appropriate modifications and improvements. The Company believes that its acquisition and development strategies have resulted in a portfolio of desirable properties with a relatively low cost of product as a percentage of sales.
Convenient Access Resorts. The Company’s CARs are located within a two-hour drive of many ILX owners’ principal residences, which accommodates a demand for more frequent and convenient “short-stay” vacations without the costs and difficulties of air travel. This proximity also facilitates marketing of the Company’s Premiere Vacation Club, which permits members to divide their Vacation Ownership Interest into shorter stays at the various properties included in Premiere Vacation Club (including Varsity Clubs) or exchange their entire interest during any year through an exchange network. In addition to the use of their Vacation Ownership Interest, owners who have purchased from ILX are also entitled to day-use of the offered amenities and discounted food, beverage and other services at their individual ILX resort or, in the case of Premiere Vacation Club members, at ILX resorts included in Premiere Vacation Club, with some exceptions, thereby facilitating use and enhancing the benefits of ownership by ILX owners.
Standard Design, Lower Construction and Operating Costs of Varsity Clubs. The Company’s Varsity Clubs concept is based upon its VCA-South Bend prototype. While each Varsity Club may have aspects uniquely tailored to its targeted customer base, the Company believes that its standard architectural and interior designs for Varsity Clubs will significantly reduce associated development and construction costs. Standardization will also allow the Company to develop new Varsity Clubs and integrate new resorts in response to demand. The Company anticipates that new Varsity Clubs, where entitlements are in place, can be constructed within one year from acquisition of the underlying real property.
Premium Locations. The Company believes that the variety and natural beauty of the surroundings for its CARs enhance their attraction to customers. Substantially all of the ILX resorts are located in the western United States, in part because of the numerous locations in that region which are attractive to tourists and convenient to major metropolitan areas. The vast majority of the Company’s inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests qualify at the highest demand classification for purposes of participation in exchange networks such as II and RCI. The Company intends to develop additional Premiere Vacation Club resorts in other western United States sites or in Mexico that offer natural settings or other attractions to entice tourists to visit such locations.
Integrated In-House Operations. Substantially all of the Company’s marketing, sales, development, property management, and financing operations are conducted internally, except certain minimal marketing functions and processing of customer payments and certain collection activities related to promissory notes given by ILX owners as partial payment for a Vacation Ownership Interest (“Customer Notes”). In addition, the Company operates all of the ILX resorts on a centralized basis, with operating and maintenance costs paid from ILX owners’ dues as well as hotel rental revenues. The Company believes that its internal capabilities result in greater control and consistency of all phases of its operations that may result in lower overall costs than generally associated with outsourcing such operations. Such integration also facilitates the Company’s Premiere Vacation Club and the ILX resorts’ qualification in the II and RCI exchange networks, among others.
Directed Marketing. The Company’s marketing strategy with respect to its Premiere Vacation Club is to target potential customers who have a demonstrated interest in the location of its ILX resorts or a likelihood of frequent travel. The Company’s marketing activities primarily offer travel-related inducements (such as discounted or complimentary vacations at nearby ILX resorts or at non-affiliated hotels in popular destinations in the western United States and Mexico or discounted or complimentary area activities to visitors to its resort destinations). By offering travel-related inducements, the Company believes it is better able to identify customers who like to travel, which results in a higher percentage of sales per contact than other promotions. In addition, the Company developed its proprietary Varsity Clubs of America concept to capitalize upon affinity marketing strategies. The Company believes that a high-quality “city club” experience combined with the traditional benefits associated with Vacation Ownership Interests, such as the opportunity to participate in exchange networks, will appeal to consumers in the local markets of each Varsity Club. Further, the Varsity Clubs concept is intended to take advantage of a marketing base of alumni, sports enthusiasts, parents of students, corporate sponsors and others affiliated with each university next to which a Varsity Clubs will be developed. The Company believes that these marketing strategies permit it to take advantage of existing affinities, resulting in a higher rate of closings per customer contacts.
Premiere Vacation Club
Sales of Vacation Ownership Interests in Premiere Vacation Club commenced in June 1998. Purchasers are offered deeded membership interests that provide rights to accommodations which may be used each use year in their entirety at one time or may be divided into shorter stays at one or a variety of the Company’s resorts or may be exchanged through a participating exchange network. The Company’s Premiere Vacation Club emphasizes CARs (i) that facilitate short-stay vacations with relatively low cost and time associated with travel to the ILX resort, (ii) located near settings of natural beauty, (iii) with high quality amenities and resort services and (iv) that facilitate flexible use options. The Company also markets membership interests in its Premiere Vacation Club to existing ILX owners, thereby expanding its sales volume without increasing its sales and marketing costs in the same proportion as generally associated with sales to first-time buyers.
Initially, the Company’s Premiere Vacation Club inventory consisted of Vacation Ownership Interests in the ILX resorts. New resorts are expected to be added through the Company’s pursuit of selected acquisition opportunities, as occurred with the addition of the 1,500 one-week 25-year right-to-use Vacation Ownership Interests in Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club in San Carlos, Mexico, the 988 Vacation Ownership Interests in Rancho Mañana Resort, 2,127 Vacation Ownership Interests in the Carriage House in Las Vegas and 176 Vacation Ownership Interests in Scottsdale Camelback Resort. By marketing its inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests through Premiere Vacation Club, the Company believes it has greater flexibility with respect to potential acquisition opportunities than generally associated with the sale of Vacation Ownership Interests in a single vacation resort, to the extent that small or remote resorts which may be inefficient to market as a single location resort may enhance the consumer appeal of a membership interest in Premiere Vacation Club. With its existing and planned resorts in Arizona, Nevada and Mexico, the Company is seeking to build a critical mass of CARs within driving distance of the Phoenix and Tucson metropolitan markets. The Company may develop additional networks of CARs proximate to other major metropolitan areas in the western United States. Further capitalizing on the flexibility of Premiere Vacation Club, the Company has an agreement with Scottsdale Camelback Resort whereby Premiere Vacation Club members may utilize the resort’s facilities on a day-use basis, thereby enhancing the benefits of ownership in Premiere Vacation Club, particularly to members residing in Metropolitan Phoenix.
Varsity Clubs of America
The Company may in the future pursue the expansion of its proprietary branded Varsity Clubs concept. The Company would focus on development of additional Varsity Clubs near prominent colleges and universities in the western United States, or elsewhere, located in areas with a significant base of existing tourism and access to major population centers. The Company created a Varsity Clubs wing which recognizes UNLV at the Carriage House, which is approximately one mile from campus. The Varsity Clubs of America concept is primarily intended to offer residents in major population centers a “city club” experience with day-use privileges regularly available, as well as the opportunity to exchange their Vacation Ownership Interest through the exchange networks in which ILX owners participate. The Varsity Clubs concept also seeks to maximize the appeal of such urban timeshare resorts by strategically locating each of them proximate to one or more prominent colleges and universities with nationally recognized athletic, cultural and other events. Large universities host a variety of sporting, recreational, academic and cultural events that create a substantial and relatively constant influx of participants, attendees and spectators. The Varsity Clubs concept is designed to address the specific needs of these individuals and entities by creating specialty vacation ownership resorts that have a flexible ownership structure, enabling the purchase of anything from a single day, a collection of single days (such as an entire football or other sports’ season) or a traditional one-week period. Each Varsity Clubs facility operates as a hotel to the extent of unsold or unused vacation ownership inventory.
The prototype VCA-South Bend facility is an all-suite, original 62-unit which was expanded to an 86-unit lodging facility that features amenities such as The Stadium (a sports-themed atrium lounge serving a variety of food and beverages and featuring a theater-wall television), a private Member’s Lounge, exercise facilities, a swimming pool and whirlpool spa, complete business services and other facilities popular with the target market of likely purchasers. The prototype Varsity Clubs facility is based on a four-acre configuration expandable to as many as 90 units, without the need to acquire additional real property, and can be built in smaller configurations if warranted by a particular market or if dictated by the availability of land.
The first Varsity Clubs facility is located three miles from the University of Notre Dame and Notre Dame Stadium in South Bend, Indiana, and approximately 90 miles from Chicago, Illinois. Customers purchase deed and title to a floating period’s use of a unit and unlimited day-use privileges at the common areas of the property. Purchasers may also receive the right-to-use the facility on specified dates, such as dates of home football games, for which they pay a premium. To date, VCA-South Bend has been able to compete favorably for commercial guests because of its superior facilities and amenities relative to other lodging accommodations in the area.
The second Varsity Clubs facility is located in Tucson, Arizona, less than three miles from the University of Arizona. This second Varsity Clubs offers 60 suites, or 3,120 one-week intervals. VCA-Tucson was designed in accordance with the VCA-South Bend prototype, with certain modifications made to improve efficiency and incorporate local design themes. The Company chose Tucson as a site for its Varsity Clubs concept because of its status as a year-round destination location, a large residential population base of approximately 1,000,000 and the proximity to the University of Arizona, which has a current alumni base in excess of 225,000 people. The Company believes that all of these factors increase the appeal of VCA-Tucson to prospective buyers as well as provide increased trading power for purchasers of Vacation Ownership Interests in the resort for purposes of participation in exchange networks.
The Company would consider development of additional Varsity Clubs facilities that meet its specified criteria. Management believes there exist numerous sites in the western United States, or elsewhere, that are attractive for the development of additional Varsity Clubs. The Company believes that Varsity Clubs brand name recognition would be enhanced with the offering of additional facilities. Varsity Clubs expansion efforts would likely be primarily focused on metropolitan areas in the western United States, each located near one or more large universities, but the Company will assess other potential opportunities as they arise. Ideally, the Company would seek to place additional Varsity Clubs near universities that are located in or convenient to popular tourist destination locations in or near large metropolitan areas.
Sales and Marketing
Marketing is the process by which the Company attracts potential customers to visit and tour an ILX resort or attend a sales presentation. Sales is the process by which the Company seeks to sell a Vacation Ownership Interest to a potential customer once he or she arrives for a tour at an ILX resort or attends a sales presentation. The Company believes it has the marketing and sales infrastructure necessary to sell Vacation Ownership Interests on a competitive basis. All of the Company’s sales and the majority of the Company’s marketing functions are currently performed in-house and the Company invests significant resources in attracting, training and seeking to retain its sales and marketing employees. The Company believes this strategy provides it with greater control over these critical functions, resulting in greater consistency of customer relations and improved customer satisfaction. In addition, management believes that its practice of hiring employees to staff the majority of its sales and marketing functions, as opposed to using independent contractors as has been the industry norm, results in a higher retention rate among its sales force and provides a pool of experienced staff from which to draw upon as the Company’s business expands. The Company expends substantial resources identifying, attracting and training its sales and marketing personnel and offers a full package of employment benefits to its sales and marketing personnel. Management believes that consistency and high quality in its sales and marketing operations is crucial to its success. The Company believes that the package of benefits offered to its sales and marketing employees, including an Employee Stock Ownership Plan, is uncommon in the vacation ownership industry and, as a result, attracts high quality personnel and provides an incentive for their performance.
Marketing. The Company’s marketing activities are devoted primarily toward (i) hotel guests at the ILX resorts, (ii) II and RCI exchange program participants staying at the ILX resorts, (iii) off-premise contacts with visitors to the local surroundings of the ILX resorts and in the metropolitan areas within driving distances of the ILX resorts (iv) telemarketing, direct mail, electronic and other contact with residents of metropolitan areas within driving distance of the ILX resorts (v) its existing customer base and (vi) referrals from existing owners. The Company’s marketing strategy seeks to target prospective buyers who respond favorably to travel-related inducements because the Company believes such consumers are more likely to travel and therefore have a greater likelihood of purchasing a Vacation Ownership Interest. The Company identifies potential purchasers through internally developed marketing techniques, and sells Vacation Ownership Interests through its four sales offices located at ILX resorts. For its sales offices, the Company primarily targets customers who live within driving distance of the ILX resort or who are vacationing at or near the ILX resort. This practice allows the Company to invite potential purchasers to experience the ILX resorts and avoid the more expensive marketing costs of subsidized airfare and lodging which have been associated with the vacation ownership industry. In addition, the Company believes that its marketing strategy results in a higher percentage of sales per prospective customer contacts than other approaches because its targeted customer base has a demonstrated interest in the locale of an ILX resort and/or a greater likelihood to take vacations. The Company also targets local residents to its VCA-Tucson sales office by offering these prospective customers travel incentives and other premiums in exchange for their attendance at the sales presentation. The Company believes that prospective customers who respond to such travel offers have stronger sales potential because of the attractiveness of the convenient access of the ILX resorts to their homes, and because of their interest in travel. The Company also directs its marketing efforts to current ILX owners. Marketing costs to existing owners are generally lower than costs associated with first time buyers.
Similar to branding techniques utilized by some of its competitors, the Company also seeks to capitalize upon affinity marketing concepts in attracting prospective buyers to its Varsity Clubs concept by seeking to develop a branded “city club” experience for flexible use by local residents. In addition, marketing of Varsity Clubs seeks to focus on alumni, parents of university students and other persons or entities who have a preexisting affiliation with or other attraction to the local university. All of the Company’s marketing activities emphasize the convenience of the ILX resorts, coupled with the opportunity to participate in exchange networks, as well as the quality and breadth of amenities available at each of the ILX resorts.
Sales. The Company actively sells its inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests primarily through a sales staff of approximately 82 employees at December 31, 2007, including approximately 55 sales agents at ILX’s sales offices. Prospective first-time purchasers at sales offices located at an ILX resort participate in a tour of the facilities as well as its related amenities, guided by a salesperson. At the conclusion of the tour, the terms of making a purchase, including financing alternatives, are explained to the customer. Approximately 20% of the Company’s sales have historically been made on a cash basis with the percentage of cash sales increasing to approximately 30% in 2007. However, for those customers seeking financing, the Company conducts credit pre-approval research. The Company’s point-of-sale credit pre-approval process typically includes a review of the customer’s credit history, and may include verification of employment. The Company waits until expiration of the applicable statutory waiting period, generally from three to seven days, prior to recognizing a sale as complete.
In addition to generating sales to first-time buyers, the Company’s sales force seeks to generate sales of additional Vacation Ownership Interests or Upgrades to ILX owners. Sales to ILX owners generally have lower marketing costs associated with them as these buyers tend to be more familiar with the nature of purchasing a Vacation Ownership Interest and the amenities offered at the ILX resorts. Sales to ILX owners accounted for 22.7% of Vacation Ownership Interest sales by the Company during 2007. During 2006 and 2005, sales to ILX owners accounted for 17.3% and 19.3% of the Company’s total sales, respectively.
Prior to June 1998, the Company’s inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests had historically consisted of a one-week interval that could be used on an annual or an alternate-year basis in a specified ILX resort during a specified range of dates. ILX owners could also participate in exchange networks such as II and RCI. Commencing in June 1998, the Company began offering deeded membership interests in its Premiere Vacation Club, which permit a member to stay at one or more of the participating ILX resorts for up to one week on an annual or alternate-year basis. Premiere Vacation Club members may divide their stays into shorter vacations at any time between a specified period of time, enjoy unlimited day-use and discounted goods and services at certain ILX resorts, as well as a variety of other benefits. The Company believes that the variety and flexibility of use options associated with its inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests are uniquely attractive to customers.
Customer Financing
The Company currently provides financing for approximately 70-80% of its Vacation Ownership Interest sales. On financed sales, the Company receives at least 10% of the aggregate sales price of Vacation Ownership Interests plus the cost of any incentives given at the time of sale as a down payment. The Company typically makes financing for the remainder available to the buyer for a term of seven years at a fixed rate of interest, which is currently approximately 14.9% to 17.9% per annum. The Company also offers reduced rates of interest on shorter financing terms and with larger down payment requirements. At December 31, 2007, the Company had a portfolio of retained Customer Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million, of which $21.4 million were serviced by one outside vendor and had a weighted average yield of 14.0% per annum, which compared favorably to the Company’s weighted average cost of borrowings for such Customer Notes of 8.69% per annum.
The Company believes that providing available financing is essential to the successful sales and marketing of its Vacation Ownership Interest inventory. However, the Company seeks to minimize the risks associated with its financing activities by emphasizing the credit pre-approval process. In addition, the Company expends significant resources negotiating alternative repayment programs for past due accounts, so as to minimize its actual losses. Collection activities with respect to Customer Notes that the Company has hypothecated are managed internally and serviced by a third party on behalf of the lenders and the Company. In addition, the Company utilizes third party collection agencies for difficult accounts.
Prior to 1995, the Company sold the majority of its Customer Notes and retained the small remaining portion, most of which were hypothecated. Since 1995, the Company has increased the amount of Customer Notes that it retains, most of which it hypothecates, and, as a result, at December 31, 2007, the Company retained Customer Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million as compared to $7.9 million at December 31, 1995.
Although the terms of each Customer Note vary, typically such notes are deemed past due when a scheduled payment is 30 days or more past due. In addition, a delinquency occurs when an account becomes more than 90 days past due. The Company seeks to avoid defaults by working closely with the lender and its collection agent with respect to ILX owners who become delinquent. The first collection contact typically occurs within 16 to 30 days of a payment’s due date.
At December 31, 2007, the Company had an agreement with a financial institution for a commitment of $30.0 million under which the Company may sell certain of its Customer Notes. The agreement provides for sales on a recourse basis with a purchase rate of prime plus 2.75%. Customer Notes may be sold at discounts or premiums to the principal amount in order to yield the purchase rate, with the premium held back by the financial institution as additional collateral. At December 31, 2007, $14.4 million of the $30.0 million commitment was available to the Company. The Company also has a financing commitment in the aggregate amount of $30.0 million, pursuant to which the Company may hypothecate Customer Notes that are pledged to the lender as collateral. This borrowing bears interest at prime plus 1.5%, had a draw period through March 2008, and a maturity date of 2012. At December 31, 2007, $16.4 million was available to the Company under this commitment. In March 2008, the Company amended this commitment to extend the borrowing period through December 2009, extend the maturity date to 2013 and decrease the maximum amount to $20.0 million. The Company currently reserves approximately 4.5% of gross sales (including cash sales) as an allowance for doubtful accounts. At December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, the aggregate amount of these reserves was $4.1 million, $4.3 million and $3.8 million, respectively. During 2005 and 2006, the Company’s provision for doubtful accounts exceeded actual write-offs by $0.7 million and $0.2 million. In 2007, the Company’s actual write-offs exceeded the provision for doubtful accounts by approximately $0.5 million. The Company generally writes off receivables only at such time as it accepts back a deed to the underlying property and determines the remainder uncollectible or as beneficial for income tax purposes. For tax reasons, in 2007, the Company wrote off receivables for which it had not exhausted collection efforts and had not accepted a deed back to the underlying property, thereby accelerating such write-offs. Future collections on such notes, if any, will be reported as increases to the allowance in the year collected. The timing of such write-offs is neither indicative of the date delinquency commenced nor of the date the likelihood of noncollectibility was determined. To the extent that the Company’s losses as a result of bad debt exceed its corresponding reserves, its financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Other Operations
Resort Operations. The Company also receives revenues from (i) the rental of unsold or unused inventory of units at the ILX resorts, (ii) the sale of food, beverages and other amenities at such resorts and (iii) the management and operation of the ILX resorts and for the operating portion of homeowners’ dues paid by owners of Vacation Ownership Interests. During 2007, the Company received $20.9 million in net revenues from these operations, consisting of $14.9 million in room rental and vacation interval owner dues revenue, $3.8 million in food and beverage revenue and $2.2 million in other revenue. Of these amounts, Los Abrigados contributed $10.1 million, or 48.2% of the Company’s total resort operations revenues in 2007. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Historically, the Company’s resort operation activities have generated a less significant portion of the Company’s net profits than its core business of sales of Vacation Ownership Interests. Revenues from resort operations typically vary significantly from one ILX resort to another. In addition, changes in revenue received from these operations have not typically correlated with fluctuations in the Company’s revenues from sales of Vacation Ownership Interests. Management expects this trend to continue in the future as resort occupancy by owners of Vacation Ownership Interests, who pay a lower rate through their dues than the rate charged traditional resort guests, increases; the Company acquires or builds new resorts that are in different phases of the sales life cycle and therefore have different use patterns between vacation owners and resort guests than the existing portfolio of resorts; and because future resorts may have different rate structures, reflective of their location and amenities, than existing resorts. The Company believes that its resort management activities directly complement the Company’s efforts with respect to the marketing and sales of Vacation Ownership Interests.
Sedona Spa. The Company’s operations include the sale of personal care products. The personal care products are marketed under its proprietary brand name “Sedona Spa.” Sedona Spa products have, and continue to be, utilized at the ILX resorts as in-room amenities and are also offered for retail sale in the resort gift shops and at the Sedona Spa at Los Abrigados. The Company uses direct mail and electronic mail to market Sedona Spa products to resort customers and others who have previously used the products. The Company anticipates continuing to utilize Sedona Spa products for in-room amenities, and in its retail outlets, as well as continuing to expand marketing efforts outside the Company.
Land Sales. Since l993, the Company has also received revenues from the sale of primarily unimproved real property. These operations originated as a result of the Company’s acquisition of its wholly owned subsidiary, Genesis, in November 1993. The sale of real property is not a core business function for the Company and, as such, the Company has not historically and does not intend in the future to devote a material portion of its resources to these operations. Typically, the Company has sold these assets as subdivided lots or large unimproved parcels. The Company intends to sell all of the remaining assets as soon as reasonably practical. Following the sale of these assets, management does not expect to regularly engage in the sale of real property.
In April 2005, the Company sold its leasehold interest in a 44-acre parcel located proximate to the Las Vegas airport, UNLV and the “Strip” in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Company acquired the 50-year leasehold interest in July 2001 and sold it to Streets Las Vegas, LLC for $18.0 million. A detailed explanation of the transaction can be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.
First Piggy. The Company is in the development stage of a unique concept dedicated to promoting savings by children. The proprietary First Piggy concept includes teaching children the benefit of savings and the concept of growth from compound interest through experiential learning. Beginning with a small initial deposit, children will be able to develop life skills as they build financial resources for their futures. Under the First Piggy program, accounts will be owned solely by the child (“Piglet”), and funds will remain in the child’s account and grow tax-free until the child reaches the age of majority. The focus will be on on-line services and information, with just one or two physical locations, one of which is complete and located on the grounds of Los Abrigados in Sedona, Arizona. Savings will be augmented by rewards affiliates who will contribute a portion of qualifying purchases to the Piglet’s account when a First Piggy card is presented. Additional cards may be issued to parents, grandparents and others so their purchases at affiliates can add to a child’s savings balance too.
First Piggy’s plans to engage outside service providers for functions for which third party sources are available at an attractive cost. It intends to use its internal resources to direct and initially deliver the important tasks for which it has expertise, including developing a critical mass of Piglets and a network of rewards affiliates. In addition to its participation as a founder and investor in First Piggy, the Company intends to be a rewards affiliate as well. By offering Piglet enrollment, inclusive of deposit, to prospective customers as an inducement to attend a vacation ownership presentation as well as larger amounts as incentives for the purchase of vacation ownership, the Company will enjoy an exclusive advantage compared to others competing for tours and sales in the markets in which it operates.
The Company is evaluating the relative merits of becoming an Arizona state chartered bank or partnering with an existing financial institution for its banking functions. The equity structure of First Piggy will depend upon capital requirements and applicable regulations and has not yet been determined. The project has been deferred because of the serious uncertainties in the financial markets.
Participation in Exchange Networks
The Company believes that consumers are more likely to purchase from its inventory of Vacation Ownership Interests as a result of the Company’s participation in the Vacation Ownership Interest exchange networks operated by II and RCI, the leading exchange network operators. In the “2006 Ragatz Associates Resort Timeshare Consumers: Who They Are, Why They Buy,” exchange opportunity was cited by purchasers of interval interests as one of the five most significant factors in their motivation to purchase an interest. ILX currently enrolls new purchasers in the II exchange network. Membership in II or RCI allows ILX owners to exchange in a particular year their occupancy right in the unit in which they own a Vacation Ownership Interest for an occupancy right at the same time or a different time in another participating resort, based upon availability and the payment of a variable exchange fee. A participating ILX owner may exchange his or her Vacation Ownership Interest for an occupancy right in another participating resort by listing the Vacation Ownership Interest as available with the exchange network operator and by requesting occupancy at another participating resort, indicating the particular resort or geographic area to which the owner desires to travel, the size of the unit desired and the period during which occupancy is desired. The exchange network assigns a rating to each listed Vacation Ownership Interest, based upon a number of factors, including the location and size of the unit, the quality of the resort and the period of the year during which the Vacation Ownership Interest is available, and attempts to satisfy the exchange request by providing an occupancy right in another Vacation Ownership Interest with a similar rating. The high rating of, and demand for, the ILX resorts enhance the exchange opportunities available to ILX owners. If II or RCI is unable to meet the member’s initial request, the network operator may suggest alternative resorts, based on availability. ILX also offers purchasers enrollment in a cruise exchange program in which the customer may exchange his or her Vacation Ownership Interest for or receive discounts on cruises worldwide. Exchanges and discounts through this program are offered on a variety of cruise lines to a broad selection of destinations. In addition, ILX’s Centralized Owner Services Department has established arrangements with additional resorts and smaller exchange networks through which it offers exchange opportunities and discounted vacation getaways to ILX owners. The Company believes that its direct participation in the exchange process, coupled with these additional services, provides ILX with a competitive advantage and tends to increase customer satisfaction.
Competition
ILX’s Vacation Ownership Interest plans compete both with other Vacation Ownership Interest plans as well as hotels, motels, condominium developments and second homes. ILX considers the direct competitors of individual resorts to also include alternative accommodations, including hotels, motels, bed-and-breakfasts and small vacation ownership operators located within the immediate geographic vicinity of such resort. This is particularly true with respect to its CARs that tend to attract purchasers whose decision to buy a Vacation Ownership Interest is likely to be influenced by the convenience of the resort to their principal residence.
The vacation ownership industry consists of a large number of local and regional resort developers and operators. In addition, some of the world’s most widely-recognized lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies sell Vacation Ownership Interests under their brand names, including Marriott Ownership Resorts, The Walt Disney Company, Hilton Hotels Corporation, Hyatt Corporation, Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, and their subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, other publicly traded companies currently compete or may compete in the future with the Company. Furthermore, significant competition exists in other markets in which the Company currently operates or is developing vacation ownership resorts. Many entities with which the Company competes have significantly greater access to financial, sales and marketing and other resources than those of the Company and may be able to grow at a more rapid rate or more profitably as a result. In recent years there has been significant consolidation in the industry and in addition several entities have encountered challenges, resulting in their attempt to reorganize through either consolidation or bankruptcy. Management anticipates competition to increase in the future as a result of consolidation in the vacation ownership industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully compete with such companies.
Governmental Regulation
General. The Company’s marketing and sales activities and other resort operations are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states in which the Company’s resorts are located and in which its Vacation Ownership Interests are marketed and sold. Federal legislation to which the Company is or may be subject includes the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the Civil Rights Acts of 1964, 1968 and 1991. Many states have adopted legislation as well as specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of Vacation Ownership Interests. The laws of most states, including Arizona, require a designated state authority to approve a detailed offering statement describing the Company and all material aspects of the resort and sale of Vacation Ownership Interests at such resort. In addition, the laws of most states in which the Company sells Vacation Ownership Interests grant the purchaser of a Vacation Ownership Interest the right to rescind a contract of purchase at any time within a statutory rescission period. Furthermore, most states have other laws which regulate the Company’s activities, such as real estate licensure laws, travel sales licensure laws, anti-fraud laws, consumer protection laws, telemarketing laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws, and labor laws. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which it is currently subject.
Environmental Matters. Under applicable federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate, remediate and remove hazardous or toxic substances at such property, and may be held liable for property damage and for investigation, remediation and removal costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants, and the liability under such laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of responsibility. The costs associated with compliance with such regulations may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination on such property, may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow against such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of a release of hazardous or toxic substances at such disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Finally, the owner or operator of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from a site. In connection with its ownership and operation of its properties, the Company may be potentially liable for such costs.
The Company does not always conduct environmental assessments at the ILX resorts, properties under development and properties subject to acquisition. Because many of the Company’s resorts are typically found in remote locations, it does not consider the risks of environmental liabilities significant enough to warrant the performance of assessments at such locations. Failure to obtain such reports may result in the Company acquiring or developing unusable property or assuming certain liabilities which could have been avoided if the Company had the information typically discovered in an environmental report. However, when appropriate, the Company has in the past and will in the future obtain environmental reports. To date, the Company has obtained environmental reports with respect to four of the ILX resorts. In addition, the Company does conduct significant in-house due diligence prior to the acquisition of any real property interests. To date, the Company’s investigations of its properties have not revealed any environmental liability that the Company believes would have a material adverse effect on the Company, its business, assets, financial condition or results of operations, nor is the Company aware of any such material environmental liability.
The Company believes that its properties are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances. The Company has not been notified by any governmental authority or any third party, and is not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with any of its present properties.
Other Regulations. Under various state and federal laws governing housing and places of public accommodation, the Company is required to meet certain requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although management believes that the Company’s resorts are substantially in compliance with present requirements of such laws, the Company may incur additional costs of compliance in connection with the development of new resorts, or conversion or renovation of ILX resorts. Future legislation may impose additional requirements on owners with respect to access by disabled persons. The aggregate costs associated with compliance with such regulations are not currently known, and, while such costs are not expected to have a material effect on the Company, such costs could be substantial. Limitations or restrictions on the completion of certain renovations may limit application of the Company’s growth strategy in certain instances or reduce profit margins on the Company’s operations.
Employees
As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 720 employees, of which approximately 450 were employed on a full-time basis. The Company believes relations with its employees are good and none of its employees are represented by labor unions. The Company has adopted an Employee Stock Ownership Plan for the benefit of its employees.
Insurance
The Company carries comprehensive liability, business interruption, title, fire and storm insurance with respect to the ILX resorts, with policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties, which the Company believes are adequate. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses caused by floods, acts of terrorism, or acts of war) that are not generally insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose its capital invested in a resort, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such resort and would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Corporate Headquarters
The Company leases 10,455 square feet for its corporate offices in Phoenix, Arizona, under a lease that expires on January 31, 2010.
Item 3.