Item 2. Properties.
Properties.
Our primary areas of activity are in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast Regions with additional unproved exploratory leaseholds in the Columbia River Basin in southeastern Washington, the Hingeline area of Central Utah, and the Haynesville Shale area of Texas, among others. Total oil and gas leasehold is approximately 813,000 acres.
Rocky Mountain Region
The Rocky Mountain Region comprises approximately 73% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2009. The majority of our undeveloped acreage and drilling inventory is located in this region, where our drilling efforts and capital expenditures have been focused.
In the Rocky Mountains, although we have significant acreage in three basins, we have dedicated the majority of our development efforts to our position in the Piceance Basin.
Piceance Basin. Since 2005 we have dedicated significant financial capital and human resources to the development of our Vega Unit and surrounding leasehold in Mesa County, Colorado, which in combination is referred to as the Vega Area. In 2008 we acquired an additional 17,300 net acres, which increased our position to approximately
22,150 net acres, which has over 2,000 net drilling locations on 10-acre spacing. We also have a non-operated working interest in the Garden Gulch Field in Garfield County, Colorado. These fields are consistent with our strategy of targeting reservoirs that demonstrate predictable geology over large areas. The Williams Fork member of the Mesaverde formation is the primary producing interval and has been successfully developed throughout the Piceance Basin.
Vega Area. The Vega Area includes the Vega Unit, the North Vega leasehold, the Buzzard Creek Unit, and North Buzzard Creek leasehold. Our working interest in the Vega Area varies between 95-100%. During fiscal 2008, we increased proved reserves in the Vega Area over 295% to 719.9 Bcfe and increased production from approximately 25 Mmcf/d at the beginning of the year to approximately 48 Mmcf/d at the end of 2008. However, during 2009, as a result of the combined effect of lower gas prices through the year and the new SEC reserve pricing rules, proved reserves decreased to 84.7 Bcfe. Production decreased to 25.8 Mmcf/d at the end of 2009 due to the limited capital spending during 2009. The Collbran Valley natural gas pipeline provides us with approximately 100 Mmcf/d of pipeline takeaway capacity. The pipeline system is expandable to 290 MMcfd with additional compression at CVGG Anderson Gulch Facility. We ended 2009 with 188 wells producing. Despite our large inventory of over 2,000 drilling locations and efficient reserve growth, we decreased our drilling program from four rigs to one rig at year end 2008, and further to zero rigs in 2009, primarily due to the decrease in natural gas prices and liquidity concerns. Since 2005 we have experienced significant reductions in drill time, and drilling and completion costs. We expect to continue completion activities in 2010 on wells awaiting completion, and to resume an active, continuous drilling program once commodity prices recover. Our drilling and completion capital budget for the Vega Area has not yet been determined pending the outcome of our borrowing base redetermination and the outcome of the previously discussed strategic alternatives process.
Garden Gulch. We have an interest in approximately 6,300 gross (2,000 net) acres with a 31.1% non-operated working interest. The operator of the project temporarily ceased drilling activity in 2009, but resumed completion activity in late 2009 and began a one rig drilling program in early 2010. Our capital budget for the year ending December 31, 2010 is driven by the activity level, which is determined by the operator.
Paradox Basin. In the Paradox Basin we have five prospect areas: Greentown, Salt Valley, Fisher Valley, Gypsum Valley and Cocklebur Draw. Over the past three years we focused primarily on the Greentown prospect, in Grand County, Utah. The objectives that were targeted in these prospects were reliant upon various geologic models, which included multiple stacked clastic intervals imbedded within an evaporate salt in the Paradox formation, and unconventional shales.
Greentown. From 2006 through 2008, we drilled a total of eight wells in the Greentown project area. Delta observed encouraging hydrocarbon flows from three of the initial wells. The Greentown 36-11, 32-42 and 28-11 which all produced hydrocarbon from one or more of the clastic intervals at commercial rates. Although these first two exploration wells were lost due to casing failure, subsequent wells were drilled with improved casing designs and did not experience similar failure. Due to Delta’s need to devote its limited capital to the Piceance Basin properties in 2010, we have farmed out our interest in several of the Paradox wellbores to another firm and retained a carried 25% interest in the completion of each of the wellbores. The farmout specifically assigns operating rights to the Federal 28-11 and Greentown Federal 26-43D well along with associated abandonment responsibilities. The agreement also provides for the option to extend the agreement to other wellbores.
We have a 70% working interest in 34,000 gross acres, 23,400 net acres. The acreage remains prospective and we are hopeful that the farmout will prove successful. We have not budgeted any significant activity in Greentown for the year ending December 31, 2010.
Salt Valley. The Salt Valley project area has had one exploratory well drilled. Additional drilling plans are not expected in 2010. We have a 70% working interest in 7,065 gross acres, 4,900 net acres.
Fisher Valley, Gypsum Valley and Cocklebur Draw. We have three remaining prospects in the Paradox Basin located in San Miguel and Dolores Counties, Colorado and Grand County, Utah. We have a 70% working interest in 49,200 gross acres, 36,600 net acres, all of which were undeveloped at December 31, 2009.
Denver-Julesburg (“D-J”) Basin. Our leasehold in the Denver Julesburg Basin focuses on the “J” sand formation at depths of between 7,000 feet and 8,000 feet. In 2007 we drilled an exploratory well, the Cowboy 35-21 well, which was a discovery that began production at a rate of 200 Bo/d. Subsequent development of the Cowboy field included ten additional wells which allowed production to peak at approximately 1,100 barrels of oil per day. Production has since declined to 330 Bopd. We have identified numerous seismically defined structures, similar in size to the Cowboy field. We have 70,243 net acres with a 100% working interest. Our drilling capital expected for the D-J Basin in 2010 is primarily related to a well which spud in late January 2010 and is expected to be on production by the end of April 2010.
Gulf Coast Region
The Gulf Coast Region comprises approximately 26% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2009. In the Gulf Coast Region, our primary areas of operation are the Newton and Midway Loop Fields.
Development Projects - Newton, Midway Loop and Opossum Hollow Fields
Newton Field. The Newton Field is located in Newton County, Texas where we have an interest in 4,874 net acres with a 92% working interest. The wells in the Newton Field produce from 13 different sands in the Wilcox formation. The field is a large structural anticline that is defined by extensive well and seismic control. At year end, proved reserves in the Newton Field were 16.2 Bcfe. We do not currently anticipate allocating any significant drilling capital for the Newton Field in 2010.
Midway Loop Field. The Midway Loop Field is located in Polk and Tyler Counties, Texas. We have an interest in 12,674 gross acres, with an average 39% working interest. The wells in this field produce from the Austin Chalk and are drilled horizontally with either dual or single laterals that reach up to 8,000 feet of displaced in each lateral. As of December 31, 2009 our proved reserves totaled 12.2 Bcfe. Currently, there is no drilling capital anticipated for the field in 2010.
Caballos Creek / Opossum Hollow / 74 Ranch Areas. The leasehold is located in Atascosa and McMullen Counties, Texas. We have an interest in approximately 9,722 gross acres. The area has additional potential in the Wilcox sands, Eagleford shales, Sligo formation and Cotton Valley sands that are supported by acquired 3-D seismic programs. Delta is participating for 25% carried interest in a well currently drilling near the 74 Ranch area. We are currently evaluating additional farmout options in the 74 Ranch area.
Other Areas
Central Utah Hingeline. The central Utah Hingeline Region is an overthrust belt located in central Utah. We have an average 65% working interest in approximately 125,000 net acres. We have drilled three wells, the Joseph #1, the Federal 23-44, and the Beaver Federal 21-14. All three wells were plugged and abandoned as dry holes.
We and our partners control approximately 210,000 gross acres (125,000 net acres) within this play and numerous structural features have been identified on our leasehold. We have not budgeted any drilling capital for this area in 2010. The Central Utah Hingeline project is an exploratory area for us and does not account for any of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009.
Columbia River Basin. The Columbia River Basin is located in southeast Washington and northeast Oregon. The basin is characterized by over-pressured, gas sandstone formations. During 2009, we drilled the Gray 31-23 well in Klickitat County, Washington however the well did not reach the targeted Roslyn formation and was plugged and abandoned. We have an interest in approximately 420,000 net acres in the basin, all of which are undeveloped. The Columbia River Basin is an exploration project area and does not account for any of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 and we do not anticipate any drilling capital for this area in 2010.
Haynesville Shale. We acquired rights to 11,900 gross acres in the Haynesville Shale during the second and third quarters of 2008. The acreage position is concentrated in Caddo Parish, Louisiana, and Harrison, Shelby and Nacogdoches counties, Texas. The costs to acquire the leasehold rights have averaged approximately $3,500 per acre. We are in the process of seeking a joint venture partner to begin drilling our leasehold. No 2010 capital is expected to be allocated to this acreage.
Offshore California producing properties
Point Arguello Unit. We own the equivalent of a 6.07% gross working interest in the Point Arguello Unit and related facilities located Offshore California in the Santa Barbara Channel. Within this unit there are three producing platforms (Hidalgo, Harvest and Hermosa) with approximately 1.0 Bcfe in proved reserves. No capital expenditures are anticipated for this area for 2010.
Rocky Point Unit. We own a 6.25% working interest in the development of the east half of OCS Block 451 in the Rocky Point Unit.
Unproved Undeveloped Offshore California Properties
We previously owned direct and indirect ownership interests ranging from 2.49% to 100% in five unproved undeveloped offshore California oil and gas properties. We and our 92% owned subsidiary, Amber, were among twelve plaintiffs in a lawsuit that was filed in the United States Court of Federal Claims (the “Court”) in Washington, D.C. alleging that the U.S. government materially breached the terms of forty undeveloped federal leases, some of which are part of our offshore California properties. During 2009, we received net proceeds of $95.8 million after contractual royalty obligations to third parties and conveyed our leases back to the United States. Accordingly, we no longer have any remaining unproved undeveloped offshore California property interests.
Other Fields
We derive a small portion of our oil and gas production from fields in non-core regions that are not expected to constitute a significant portion of our capital budget in the future. Our interest in these fields had approximately 0.6 Bcfe in proved reserves as of December 31, 2009. We divested of many of these fields in late 2009 generating net proceeds of $3.7 million.
Reserve Sensitivities
In December 2008, the SEC approved new rules designed to modernize oil and gas reserve reporting requirements. We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009. The application of the new reserve rules resulted in the use of lower prices at December 31, 2009 for both oil and gas than would have been used under the previous rules. The table below compares our December 31, 2009 SEC reserves under the new rules with the December 31, 2009 proved reserves that would have been used from the use of the old rules:
As shown above, use of new 12-month average pricing rules at December 31, 2009 resulted in a decrease in proved reserves of approximately 677 Bcfe as compared to proved reserves calculated using the year-end prices previously required.
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimates, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Our policies regarding internal controls over reserve estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and for reserves to be prepared by an independent third party reserve engineering firm under the supervision of our Sr. Vice President of Corporate Engineering. Qualified petroleum engineers in our Denver office provide to our third party reserves engineers reserves estimate preparation material such as property interests, production, current costs of operation and development, current prices for production, geoscience and engineering
data, and other information. This information is reviewed by knowledgeable members of our reserve engineering department to ensure accuracy and completeness of the data prior to submission to our third party reserve engineering firm. In each of the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we retained Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. (“RDAI”), independent, third-party reserve engineers, to prepare our estimates of proved reserves. A letter which identifies the professional qualifications of the individual at RDAI who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2009 has been filed as a part of Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The SEC’s new rules expanded the technologies that a company can use to establish reserves. The SEC now allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. A variety of methodologies were used to determine our proved reserve estimates. The principal methodologies employed are decline curve analysis, analog type curve analysis, volumetrics, material balance, pressure transient analysis, petrophysics/log analysis and analogy. Some combination of these methods is used to determine reserve estimates in substantially all of our fields.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2009 with any federal authority or agency other than the SEC with respect to our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves.
DHS Drilling Company Rigs
The Company owns 49.8% of DHS, which as of December 31, 2009 owned 18 rigs with depth ratings of 10,000 to 25,000 feet. The following table shows property information and location for the DHS rigs.
Office Facilities
Our offices are located at 370 Seventeenth Street, Suite 4300, Denver, Colorado 80202. We lease approximately 32,000 square feet of office space. Our current lease payments are approximately $97,200 per month and our lease expires in December 2014.
Production
During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we have not had, nor do we now have, any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or authorities under which we acted as producer.
Impairment of Long Lived Assets
On a quarterly basis, we compare our historical cost basis of each proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas property to its expected future undiscounted net cash flow from each property (on a field by field basis). Estimates of expected future cash flows represent management’s best estimate based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections. If the expected future net cash flows exceed the carrying value of the property, no impairment is recognized. If the carrying value of the property exceeds the expected future cash flows, an impairment exists and is measured by the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the asset. As a result of this assessment, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded impairment provisions to our proved and unproved properties totaling approximately $155.5 million primarily related to our non-operated Garden Gulch field in the Piceance Basin ($38.6 million), Haynesville Shale ($27.5 million), Columbia River Basin ($21.4 million), Lighthouse Bayou ($14.8 million), proved and unproved impairments in various Gulf Coast fields ($29.2 million), Vega surface land ($10.5 million), proved and unproved impairments in various Rockies fields ($6.9 million), pipe and tubular inventory ($4.3 million), and Paradox pipeline ($1.9 million).
In 2008, we recorded an impairment provision to our proved and unproved properties totaling approximately $305.6 million primarily related to the Newton, Midway Loop, Opossum Hollow and Angleton fields in Texas ($192.5 million), Paradox field in Utah ($30.5 million), Howard Ranch and Bull Canyon fields in the Rockies ($32.0 million), Hingeline field in Utah ($40.8 million) and our offshore California field ($9.8 million). The impairments resulted primarily from the significant decline in commodity pricing during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, we recorded impairments to our Paradox pipeline ($21.5 million), certain DHS rigs ($21.6 million) and we wrote off DHS goodwill ($7.7 million).
Production Volumes, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our volumes of production sold and average prices received associated with our production and sales of natural gas and crude oil for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007.
Productive Wells and Acreage
The table below shows, as of December 31, 2009, the approximate number of gross and net producing oil and gas wells by state and their related developed acres owned by us. Calculations include 100% of wells and acreage owned by us and our subsidiaries. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assignable to productive wells.
(1)
All of the wells classified as “oil” wells also produce various amounts of natural gas.
(2)
A “gross well” or “gross acre” is a well or acre in which a working interest is held. The number of gross wells or acres is the total number of wells or acres in which a working interest is owned.
(3)
A “net well” or “net acre” is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross wells or acres equals one. The number of net wells or net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells or gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
(4)
This does not include varying very small interests in approximately 666 gross wells (5.2 net) located primarily in Texas which are owned by our subsidiary, Piper Petroleum Company.
Undeveloped Acreage
At December 31, 2009, we held undeveloped acreage by state as set forth below:
(1)
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those lease acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Drilling Activity
During the years indicated, we drilled or participated in the drilling of the following productive and nonproductive exploratory and development wells:
(1)
Does not include wells in which we had only a royalty interest.
Present Drilling Activity
We are unable to accurately predict our anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal year 2010, primarily due to the uncertainty relating to any Potential Strategic Transaction, including the likelihood of such a transaction occurring, the type of transaction and the timing of any such transaction. In addition, future redeterminations of our borrowing base under our credit facility, including the scheduled redetermination currently in process, may affect our liquidity available for capital expenditures making it difficult to accurately determine such amounts at the current time. We expect to announce our 2010 drilling plans once our strategic alternatives evaluation process and borrowing base redetermination are complete.
Item 3.