Item 2. Properties.
Properties.
Our primary areas of activity are in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast Regions with additional strategic exploration projects in the Columbia River Basin in southeastern Washington and the Hingeline area of Central Utah. Total oil and gas leasehold in these areas comprises approximately 911,000 acres.
Rocky Mountain Region
The Rocky Mountain Region comprises approximately 95% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2008. The majority of our undeveloped acreage and drilling inventory is located in this region, where our drilling efforts and capital expenditures have been focused.
In the Rocky Mountains, although we have significant acreage in four basins, we have dedicated the majority of our development efforts to our position in the Piceance Basin.
Piceance Basin. Since 2005 we have dedicated significant financial capital and human resources to the development of our Vega Unit and surrounding leasehold in Mesa County, Colorado, which in combination is referred to as the Vega Area. In 2008 we acquired an additional 17,300 net acres, which increased our position to approximately 22,150 net acres, which has over 2,000 net drilling locations on 10-acre spacing. We also have a non-operated working interest in the Garden Gulch Field in Garfield County, Colorado. These fields are consistent with our strategy of targeting reservoirs that demonstrate predictable geology over large areas. The Williams Fork member of the Mesaverde formation is the primary producing interval and has been successfully developed throughout the Piceance Basin.
Vega Area. The Vega Area includes the Vega Unit, the North Vega leasehold, the Buzzard Creek Unit, and North Buzzard Creek leasehold. Our working interest in the Vega Area varies between 95-100%. During fiscal 2008 we increased proved reserves in the Vega Area over 295% to 719.9 Bcfe. During 2008 production increased from approximately 25 Mmcf/d at the beginning of the year to approximately 48 Mmcf/d at the end of 2008. The Collbran Valley natural gas pipeline provides us with approximately 60 Mmcf/d of pipeline takeaway capacity. A new pipeline is currently under construction that will provide us with takeaway capacity up to 60 Mmcf/d. We ended 2008 with 155 wells producing. Despite our large inventory of over 2,000 drilling locations and efficient reserve growth, we have decreased our drilling program from four rigs to one rig at year end 2008, primarily due to the decrease of natural gas prices and liquidity concerns. Since 2005 we have experienced significant reductions in drill time, and drilling and completion costs, which have allowed us to grow reserves even in a depressed commodity price environment. We expect to continue completion activities in 2009 on wells awaiting completion, and to resume its more aggressive drilling program once commodity prices recover. Our drilling and completion capital budget is $35 - $45 million for the year ending December 31, 2009.
Garden Gulch. We have an interest in approximately 6,000 gross (2,000 net) acres with a 31.1% non-operated working interest. The operator of the project has temporarily ceased drilling activity, but expects to complete an inventory of approximately 20 wells that were drilled, but not completed in 2008. Our capital budget for the year ending December 31, 2009 is approximately $4 - $6 million.
Paradox Basin. In the Paradox Basin we have five prospect areas: Greentown, Salt Valley, Fisher Valley, Gypsum Valley and Cocklebur Draw. Over the past three years we focused primarily on the Greentown prospect, in Grand County, Utah. The targeted objectives in these prospects are reliant upon various geologic models, which include multiple stacked clastic intervals imbedded within an evaporate salt in the Paradox formation, and unconventional shales.
Greentown. We have drilled a total of eight wells in the Greentown project area. The first two wells flow tested at rates between 2.0 Mmcf/d with 40 Bo/d and 4.0 Mmcf/d with 800 Bo/d, primarily from the 21st clastic interval, or “O” zone. These first two exploration wells were located approximately along the axis of the anticline, about seven miles apart. Even though these wells are widely spaced, they exhibited very consistent electric log characteristics and appear analogous and mapable over a large area. Although these first two exploration wells were lost due to casing failure, the flow rates and log characteristics drove our initial assessment was that the geology was
consistent and predictable over much of our leasehold. We revised our casing design in the subsequent wells, and continued to experience multiple hydrocarbon-bearing zones while drilling. Each of the subsequent wells tested gas and oil, two of which tested at significant rates of up to 10 Mmcf/d. Most of the gas and oil tested in these wells came from the “O” interval, but some also produced from the 23rd clastic interval, also known as the Cane Creek. Despite the indications of economically productive reserves during drilling and initial completion activity, the wells failed to produce at the flow-tested rates after casing and completion activities. We assessed that the limited productivity was primarily due to a lack of naturally occurring fractures in the clastics. In order to encounter more naturally occurring fractures we drilled multiple laterals in three of the wells, within the “O” and Cane Creek intervals. In one of the first laterals in the Greentown Federal 26-43D well, in the “O” interval, we encountered significant hydrocarbon accumulation with high pressures. While trying to complete the lateral we encountered significant mechanical problems that made the potentially productive section inaccessible. The other laterals encountered limited hydrocarbon accumulations. Based upon the results from the laterals and limited production on the western portion of the acreage, we have determined that despite good correlation of the clastic intervals along the crest of the Greentown anticline, there exists discontinuity in the clastic intervals, which may limit the hydrocarbon drainage area on the western portion.
We have a 70% working interest in 43,700 gross acres, 30,400 net acres. We believe the eastern portion of its acreage, where the wells with letter drilling shows were located, remains prospective. We have not budgeted any significant activity in Greentown for the year ending December 31, 2009.
Salt Valley. The Salt Valley project area has had one exploratory well drilled. Additional drilling plans are not expected in 2009. We have a 70% working interest in 7,100 gross acres, 4,900 net acres.
Fisher Valley, Gypsum Valley and Cocklebur Draw. We have three remaining prospects in the Paradox Basin located in San Miguel and Dolores Counties, Colorado and Grand County, Utah. We have a 70% working interest in 46,500 gross acres, 32,800 net acres, all of which were undeveloped at December 31, 2008.
Wind River Basin. The Wind River Basin is characterized by a depositional environment that resulted in thick packages of tight gas sands producing at depths that range from 7,000 to 20,000 feet. We have focused our efforts on the shallower Lower Fort Union Formation which produces in numerous fields throughout the Wind River Basin.
Howard Ranch. During 2008 we performed a reevaluation of our acreage position in the Howard Ranch project area. We have determined that much of our leasehold is likely prospective in the Waltman shale formation, which is an unconventional play. At year end we owned an interest in 47,100 net acres with an average working interest of 50%. We have not budgeted any capital in the Wind River Basin for 2009.
Denver-Julesburg (“D-J”) Basin. Our leasehold in the Denver Julesburg Basin focuses on the “J” sand formation at depths of between 7,000 feet and 8,000 feet. In 2007 we drilled an exploratory well, the Cowboy 35-21 well, which was a discovery that began production at a rate of 200 Bo/d. Subsequent development of the Cowboy field included ten additional wells which allowed production to peak at approximately 1,100 barrels of oil per day. We have identified numerous seismically defined structures, similar in size to the Cowboy field. We have an interest in 21,800 net acres with a 100% working interest. There is no drilling capital budgeted for the D-J Basin for 2009.
Gulf Coast Region
The Gulf Coast Region comprises approximately 5% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2008. In the Gulf Coast Region, our primary areas of operation are the Newton and Midway Loop Fields.
Development Projects - Newton, Midway Loop and Opossum Hollow Fields
Newton Field. The Newton Field is located in Newton County, Texas where we have an interest in 21,000 net acres with a 92% working interest. The wells in the Newton Field produce from 13 different sands in the Wilcox formation. The field is a large structural anticline that is defined by extensive well and seismic control. At year end, proved reserves in the Newton Field were 11.6 Bcfe. We do not have any drilling capital planned for the Newton Field in 2009.
Midway Loop Field. The Midway Loop Field is located in Polk and Tyler Counties, Texas. We have an interest in
21,400 gross acres, with an average 28% working interest. The wells in this field produce from the Austin Chalk and are drilled horizontally with either dual or single laterals that reach up to 8,000 feet of displacement in each lateral. As of December 31, 2008 our proved reserves totaled 16.2 Bcfe. There is no drilling capital budget for the field in 2009.
Caballos Creek / Opossum Hollow / 74 Ranch Areas. The leashold is located in Atascosa and McMullen Counties, Texas. We have an interest in approximately 20,000 acres. The area has additional potential in the Wilcox sands, Eagleford shales, Sligo formation and Cotton Valley sands that are supported by acquired 3-D seismic programs.
Other Areas
Central Utah Hingeline. The central Utah Hingeline Region is an overthrust belt located in central Utah. We have an average 65% working interest in approximately 130,000 net acres. We have drilled three wells, the Joseph #1, the Federal 23-44, and the Beaver Federal 21-14. The Federal 23-44 provided us with positive indications of hydrocarbon-bearing zones, and critical geologic information, however all three wells were plugged and abandoned as dry holes.
We and our partners control approximately 200,000 gross acres (130,000 net acres) within this play and numerous structural features have been identified on our leasehold. We have a 110-mile seismic program covering previously generated prospects, which in our interpretation appear to confirm and enhance original expectations. We have not budgeted any drilling capital for this area in 2009. The Central Utah Hingeline project is an exploratory area for us and does not account for any of our proved reserves at December 31, 2008.
Columbia River Basin. The Columbia River Basin is located in southeast Washington and northeast Oregon. The basin is characterized by over-pressured, gas sandstone formations. We are currently drilling the Gray 31-23 well in Klickitat County, Washington. Completion activities are expected to begin after reaching total depth. Drilling results have been encouraging and we have begun permitting a well near the Gray well. We have an interest in approximately 424,000 net acres in the basin, all of which are undeveloped. The Columbia River Basin is an exploration project area and does not account for any of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2008. Our budget for the Columbia River Basin is $7 - $10 million in 2009.
Haynesville Shale. We acquired rights to 16,000 gross acres in the Haynesville Shale during the second and third quarters of 2008. The acreage position is concentrated in Caddo Parish, Louisiana, and Harrison, Shelby and Nacogdoches counties, Texas, which are considered to be highly attractive regions in the play. The costs to acquire the leasehold rights have averaged approximately $3,500 per acre. We are in the process of seeking a joint venture partner to begin drilling our leasehold.
Offshore California producing properties
Point Arguello Unit. We own the equivalent of a 6.07% working interest in the Point Arguello Unit and related facilities located Offshore California in the Santa Barbara Channel. Within this unit there are three producing platforms (Hidalgo, Harvest and Hermosa). No capital expenditures are in our 2009 fiscal budget.
Rocky Point Unit. We own a 6.25% working interest in the development of the east half of OCS Block 451 in the Rocky Point Unit.
Unproved Undeveloped Offshore California Properties
We have direct and indirect ownership interests ranging from 2.49% to 100% in five unproved undeveloped offshore California oil and gas properties. These property interests are located in proximity to existing producing federal offshore units near Santa Barbara, California and represent the right to explore for, develop and produce oil and gas from offshore federal lease units. Preliminary exploration efforts on these properties have occurred and the existence of substantial quantities of hydrocarbons has been indicated. The recovery of our investment in these properties will require extensive exploration and development activities (and costs) that cannot proceed without certain regulatory approvals that have been delayed and is subject to other substantial risks and uncertainties.
We and our 92% owned subsidiary, Amber, are among twelve plaintiffs in a lawsuit that was filed in the United States Court of Federal Claims (the “Court”) in Washington, D.C. alleging that the U.S. government materially breached the terms of forty undeveloped federal leases, some of which are part of our offshore California properties. On November 15, 2005 and October 31, 2006, the Court granted summary judgment as to liability and partial summary judgment as to damages with respect to thirty six of the forty total federal leases that are the subject of the litigation. Under a restitution theory of damages, the Court ruled that the government must give back to the current lessees the more than $1.1 billion in lease bonuses it had received at the time of sale. On January 19, 2006, the government filed a motion for reconsideration of the Court’s ruling as it relates to a single lease owned entirely by us (“Lease 452”). In its motion for reconsideration, the government asserted that we should not be able to recover lease bonus payments for Lease 452 because, allegedly, a significant portion of the hydrocarbons had been drained by wells that were drilled on an immediately adjacent lease. The amount of lease bonus payments attributable to Lease 452 is approximately $92.0 million. A trial on the motion for reconsideration was completed in January 2008 and on February 25, 2009 the Court entered a judgment in our favor in the amount of $91,431,300. This judgment is subject to appeal by the government.
On January 12, 2007, the Court entered an order of final judgment awarding the lessees restitution of the original lease bonuses paid for thirty five of the forty lawsuit leases. Under this order we are entitled to receive a gross amount of approximately $58.5 million, and Amber is entitled to receive a gross amount of approximately $1.5 million as reimbursement for the lease bonuses paid for all lawsuit leases other than Lease 452. The order of final judgment was affirmed in all respects by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on August 25, 2008, and the government’s petition seeking a rehearing of that decision was denied on December 5, 2008; however, on December 24, 2008, the Federal Circuit entered an order imposing a stay of the issuance of its mandate for a period of 90 days pending consideration of and the possible filing by the government of a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. On February 23, 2009, the Supreme Court granted the government’s application for a thirty day extension, to and including April 4, 2009, to file a petition for a writ of certiorari. The government asserts in its application that it has not yet determined whether it will ultimately file such a petition in this case.
No payments will be made until all appeals have either been waived or exhausted. In the event that we ultimately receive any proceeds as the result of this litigation, we will be obligated to use a portion to pay the litigation expenses and to fulfill certain contractual commitments to third parties that grant them an overriding royalty on the litigation proceeds in an aggregate amount of approximately 8% of the proceeds.
Other Fields
We derive a small portion of our oil and gas production from fields in non-core regions that are not expected to constitute a significant portion of our capital budget in the future. Our interest in these fields had approximately 2.3 Bcfe in proved reserves as of December 31, 2008.
DHS Drilling Company Rigs
The Company owns 49.8% of DHS, which as of December 31, 2008 owned 19 rigs with depth ratings of 10,000 to 25,000 feet. The following table shows property information and location for the DHS rigs.
Office Facilities
Our offices are located at 370 Seventeenth Street, Suite 4300, Denver, Colorado 80202. We lease approximately 74,000 square feet of office space. Our current lease payments are approximately $133,000 per month and our lease expires in December 2014.
Production
During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we have not had, nor do we now have, any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or authorities under which we acted as producer.
Impairment of Long Lived Assets
On a quarterly basis, we compare our historical cost basis of each proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas property to its expected future undiscounted net cash flow from each property (on a field by field basis). Estimates of expected future cash flows represent management’s best estimate based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections. If the expected future net cash flows exceed the carrying value of the property, no impairment is recognized. If the carrying value of the property exceeds the expected future cash flows, an impairment exists and is measured by the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the asset. As a result of this assessment, we recorded an impairment provision to our proved and unproved properties for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaling approximately $305.6 million primarily related to the Newton, Midway Loop, Opossum Hollow and Angleton fields in Texas ($192.5 million), Paradox field in Utah ($30.5 million), Howard Ranch and Bull Canyon fields in the Rockies ($32.0 million), Hingeline field in Utah ($40.8 million) and our offshore California field ($9.8 million). The impairments resulted primarily from the significant decline in commodity pricing during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, we recorded impairments to our Paradox pipeline ($21.5 million), certain DHS rigs ($21.6 million) and we wrote off DHS goodwill ($7.7 million).
During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment provision of approximately $59.4 million to developed properties primarily related to the Howard Ranch and Fuller fields in Wyoming ($38.4 million and $10.3
million, respectively), and the South Angleton field in Texas ($9.7 million), primarily due to lower Rocky Mountain natural gas prices and marginally economic deep zones on the Howard Ranch Prospect.
During the year ended December 31, 2006, an impairment of $10.4 million was recorded on certain of our eastern Colorado properties primarily due to lower Rocky Mountain natural gas prices. In addition, an impairment of $1.0 million was recorded on certain Oklahoma properties.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2008 with any federal authority or agency other than the SEC with respect to our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves.
Production Volumes, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our volumes of production sold and average prices received associated with our production and sales of natural gas and crude oil for the years ended December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006.
Productive Wells and Acreage
The table below shows, as of December 31, 2008, the approximate number of gross and net producing oil and gas wells by state and their related developed acres owned by us. Calculations include 100% of wells and acreage owned by us and our subsidiaries. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assignable to productive wells.
(1)
All of the wells classified as “oil” wells also produce various amounts of natural gas.
(2)
A “gross well” or “gross acre” is a well or acre in which a working interest is held. The number of gross wells or acres is the total number of wells or acres in which a working interest is owned.
(3)
A “net well” or “net acre” is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross wells or acres equals one. The number of net wells or net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells or gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
(4)
This does not include varying very small interests in approximately 666 gross wells (5.2 net) located primarily in Texas which are owned by our subsidiary, Piper Petroleum Company.
Undeveloped Acreage
At December 31, 2008, we held undeveloped acreage by state as set forth below:
(1)
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those lease acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(2)
Includes acreage owned by Amber.
Drilling Activity
During the years indicated, we drilled or participated in the drilling of the following productive and nonproductive exploratory and development wells:
(1)
Does not include wells in which we had only a royalty interest.
Present Drilling Activity
The following represents our planned exploration and development activities for the year ending December 31, 2009:
Item 3.