Item 2. Properties.
Our primary areas of activity are in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast Regions with additional strategic exploration projects in the Columbia River Basin in southeastern Washington and the Hingeline area of Central Utah. Total oil and gas leasehold in these areas comprises approximately 1.8 million acres.
Rocky Mountain Region
The Rocky Mountain Region comprises approximately 77% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007. The majority of our undeveloped acreage and drilling inventory is located in this region, where our drilling efforts and capital expenditures will be increasingly focused.
In the Rocky Mountains, our core development activities are centered on four basins that provide a multi-year inventory of development drilling locations. Our exploration ventures are located in two additional basins as well as those four basins that contain our development activity.
Piceance Basin. We are currently focusing our development efforts on the Vega Unit and surrounding leasehold in Mesa County, Colorado, which in combination is referred to as the Vega Area. We also have a non-operated working interest in the Garden Gulch Field in Garfield County, Colorado. These fields are consistent with our strategy of targeting reservoirs that demonstrate predictable geology over large areas. The Williams Fork member of the Mesaverde formation is the primary producing interval and has been successfully developed throughout the Piceance Basin.
Vega Area. The Vega Area includes the Vega Unit and the North Vega leasehold. We have a 100% working interest in the Vega Unit and in March of 2007 we entered into an earn-in agreement with another company that allows us to earn up to an additional 12,000 net acres with an average 50% working interest by drilling 128 wells over a 36 month period. This is referred to as the North Vega leasehold. During fiscal 2007 the Company increased proved reserves in the Vega Area almost 90% to 182.5 Bcfe. During 2007 production increased from approximately 3 Mmcf/d at the beginning of the year to approximately 30 Mmcf/d at the end of 2007. The new Collbran Valley natural gas pipeline was completed in late 2006 and provides the Company with 60 Mmcf/d of pipeline takeaway capacity. The increased takeaway capacity has allowed the Company to increase its drilling activity to four rigs running full time at year-end 2007 with the probability of further increases during 2008. We believe that the leasehold position will allow for the drilling of 1,500 - 2,000 locations, which is in excess of a ten year inventory based on our current rate of activity.
In February 2008, we closed a transaction in which we acquired over 1,700 drilling locations on 10-acre spacing and a 95% working interest in 18,250 net acres in the Vega Area. This transaction includes the remaining 50% working interest that we did not own in the North Vega leasehold and a 95% working interest in lands in the Buzzard Creek Federal Unit and acreage north of the Buzzard Creek Unit. Subsequent to this transaction the Company will have an approximate 95-100% working interest in over 20,000 net acres of leasehold in an almost contiguous block covering most of two townships. With the significantly increased acreage position, we have increased our drilling capital budget for the Vega Area to $210 - $215 million for the year ending December 31, 2008.
Garden Gulch. We have an interest in approximately 6,000 gross/2,000 net acres with a 31.1% non-operated working interest. The operator of the project currently has three drilling rigs running full time and has communicated plans to increase activity in 2008. Our drilling capital budget for the year ending December 31, 2008 is approximately $40 - $45 million. At the current pace, this property has in excess of a 5 year drilling inventory.
Paradox Basin. In the Paradox Basin we have five prospect areas: Greentown, Salt Valley, Fisher Valley, Gypsum Valley and Cocklebur Draw. Two of the prospects, the Greentown and Salt Valley in Grand County, Utah, have been drilled with successful exploratory wells.
Greentown. The Greentown project area has three exploratory wells that encountered economic recoverable reserves as of December 31, 2007. The wells flow tested at rates between 2.0 Mmcf/d with 40 Bo/d and 4.0 Mmcf/d with 800 Bo/d. The wells were drilled across our acreage position and are located as far as seven miles apart. Even though
these wells are widely spaced, they exhibited very consistent electric log characteristics and appear analogous and mapable over a large area. We are developing and delineating the field with a two-rig drilling program. The Greentown project also exhibits and supports the Company’s strategy of targeting reservoirs that demonstrate consistent geologic attributes and are present over large areas. The Company has a 70% working interest in 43,700 gross acres, 30,400 net acres. Assuming continued success at the Greentown project we anticipate accelerating Greentown development with additional rigs in 2008. We have budgeted approximately $40 million for drilling capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2008.
Subsequent to year-end we obtained permit approval for a 25 mile natural gas pipeline and processing plant that will service both the Greentown and Salt Valley project areas. Construction on the pipeline has begun and initial operations are projected to begin in mid-year 2008. We estimate the total cost of the pipeline to be $30 - $40 million.
Salt Valley. The Salt Valley project area has had one exploratory well drilled. Additional drilling plans are not expected in 2008 due to the increased effort at Greentown. We have a 70% working interest in 7,100 gross acres, 4,900 net acres. We have not budgeted any significant amount for drilling capital expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2008.
Fisher Valley, Gypsum Valley and Cocklebur Draw. We have three remaining prospects in the Paradox Basin located in San Miguel and Dolores Counties, Colorado and Grand County, Utah. The prospects are based on similar geology as that we used in the discovery of the Greentown Field. We have a 70% working interest in 46,500 gross acres, 32,800 net acres, all of which were undeveloped at December 31, 2007.
Wind River Basin. The Wind River Basin is characterized by a depositional environment that resulted in thick packages of tight gas sands producing at depths that range from 7,000 to 20,000 feet. We will be focusing our efforts on the shallower Lower Fort Union Formation which produces in numerous fields throughout the Wind River Basin and will limit our activities to under 11,000 feet.
Howard Ranch. During 2007 we commenced our Lower Fort Union evaluation program which included new drilling and the recompletion of two of our deeper wells to the Lower Fort Union with commercially economic production results. We drilled a total of five wells targeting the Lower Fort Union in 2007 with varying results. The Lower Fort Union has a conventional gas component as well as an unconventional gas component, and the wells that experience better economics rely on gas contribution from both reservoirs. Less economic wells were encountered where only one of the reservoirs was present. We have revised our geologic model with the intention of focusing our drilling activity on areas where both conventional and unconventional gas is trapped. At year end we owned an interest in 47,100 net acres with an average working interest of 50%. Our 2008 drilling capital budget for the Howard Ranch is approximately $7- $8 million.
Denver-Julesburg (“D-J”) Basin. Our leasehold in the Denver Julesburg Basin focuses on the “J” sand formation at depths of between 7,000 feet and 8,000 feet. In 2007 we drilled an exploratory well, the Cowboy 35-21 well, which was a discovery that began production at a rate of 200 Bo/d. Subsequent development of the Cowboy field included ten additional wells which allowed production to peak at about 1,100 barrels of oil per day. We have since acquired and interpreted a 3D seismic survey to further delineate the field and plan to resume development at the end of the first quarter of 2008. Seismic data appears to have identified additional prospects on our acreage position that are similar in size to the Cowboy field. We have acquired a leasehold position of 21,800 net acres on six prospects, and anticipate testing three of these in 2008. We have an interest in 21,800 net acres with a 100% working interest. Our 2008 drilling capital budget for the D-J Basin is approximately $6 - $7 million.
Gulf Coast Region
The Gulf Coast Region comprises approximately 21% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007. In the Gulf Coast Region, our primary activities include developing the Newton, Midway Loop and Opossum Hollow Fields.
Development Projects - Newton, Midway Loop and Opossum Hollow Fields
Newton Field. The Newton Field is located in Newton County, Texas and represents an important asset for the Company in the Gulf Coast Region. We have an interest in 21,000 net acres with a 92% working interest. The wells in the Newton Field produce from 13 different sands in the Wilcox formation. The field is a large structural anticline that is defined by extensive well and seismic control. Currently, the Company is injecting water into a pilot waterflood that involves a small portion of the field. If the waterflood is successful the Newton Field could experience a significant increase in proven reserves. At year end, proved reserves in the Newton Field were 34.0 Bcfe.
We have also experienced successful exploratory drilling on seismically defined anomalies in the shallower Yegua and Frio formations and plan further drilling activities. Our 2008 capital budget is expected to be $9 - $10 million.
Midway Loop Field. The Midway Loop Field is located in Polk and Tyler Counties, Texas. We have an interest in 21,400 gross acres, with an average 28% working interest. The wells in this field produce from the Austin Chalk and are drilled horizontally with either dual or single laterals that reach up to 8,000 feet of displacement in each lateral. As of December 31, 2007 our proved reserves totaled 23.8 Bcfe. The capital budget for the field in the year ending December 31, 2008 is $6 - $7 million.
Opossum Hollow Field. The Opossum Hollow Field is located in McMullen County, Texas, and the Company has an average working interest of 98%. The field currently produces from the Wilcox Formation. In 2007, the Company acquired a 3D seismic survey on its adjacent 74 Ranch leasehold and plans to drill the initial test wells in early 2008. As of December 31, 2007 we had proved reserves of 6.4 Bcfe.
Other Areas
Central Utah Hingeline. The central Utah Hingeline Region is an overthrust belt located in central Utah. We have an average 65% working interest in approximately 119,000 net acres. The Company has drilled two wells, the Joseph #1 and the Federal 23-44, to date. The Joseph #1 was drilled to a total depth of 13,500 feet and was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole. The Federal 23-44 reached total depth of 12,094 feet after drilling through its second primary objective. Operations have been suspended due to BLM-mandated restrictions for raptor nesting. The Federal 23-44 has been classified as a dry hole in the accompanying financial statements as there were no significant hydrocarbon shows encountered in the Navajo Sandstone or Kaibab Formation; however, drilling results confirmed the presence of a large structure. The Federal 23-44 did exhibit oil shows in the Twin Creek Limestone, a secondary objective above the Navajo, and wireline logs suggest the possibility of hydrocarbon saturation in this interval. Oil recovered from the sample cuttings from this limestone has been laboratory tested and typed as Mississippian-aged, which is the same age as the oil that produces from the original Hingeline discovery, the Covenant Field. We believe that the confirmation of Mississippian-aged oil validates our geologic model for hydrocarbon source and migration in the Central Utah Hingeline. We anticipate that the well will be production tested in the third quarter of 2008 after the raptor nesting restrictions have been lifted.
We and our partners control approximately 190,000 gross acres (123,500 net acres) within this play and numerous structural features have been identified on our leasehold. Delta’s recently acquired 110-mile seismic program covering previously generated prospects is currently being interpreted, and preliminary review appears to confirm and enhance original expectations. Final interpretation and drill site selection is expected in early 2008, and permitting of the next well should be underway by the second quarter of 2008. We plan to drill a third well in the third or fourth quarter of 2008. Our drilling capital budget is expected to be $7 - $8 million. The Central Utah Hingeline project is an exploratory area for the Company and does not account for any of our proved reserves at December 31, 2007.
Columbia River Basin. The Columbia River Basin is located in southeast Washington and northeast Oregon. The basin is characterized by over-pressured, tight sand gas formations. Based upon log evaluation of older wells, well testing and core analysis there appear to be multiple potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing sands which lie below a layer of volcanic basalt. We have an interest in 508,000 net acres in the basin, all of which are undeveloped. We plan to commence drilling operations on the Gray 31-23 which will be our first operated well in the basin during the second quarter of 2008. The Columbia River Basin is an exploration project area and does not account for any of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2007.
Other Operations
Offshore California producing properties
Point Arguello Unit. We own the equivalent of a 6.07% working interest in the Point Arguello Unit and related facilities located Offshore California in the Santa Barbara Channel. Within this unit there are three producing platforms (Hidalgo, Harvest and Hermosa). No capital expenditures are in the Company’s 2008 fiscal budget.
Rocky Point Unit. We own a 6.25% working interest in the development of the east half of OCS Block 451 in the Rocky Point Unit.
Unproved Undeveloped Offshore California Properties
We have direct and indirect ownership interests ranging from 2.49% to 100% in five unproved undeveloped offshore California oil and gas properties with aggregate carrying values of $14.8 million and $12.5 million at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. These property interests are located in proximity to existing producing federal offshore units near Santa Barbara, California and represent the right to explore for, develop and produce oil and gas from offshore federal lease units. Preliminary exploration efforts on these properties have occurred and the existence of substantial quantities of hydrocarbons has been indicated. The recovery of our investment in these properties will require extensive exploration and development activities (and costs) that cannot proceed without certain regulatory approvals that have been delayed and is subject to other substantial risks and uncertainties.
We and our 92% owned subsidiary, Amber, are among twelve plaintiffs in a lawsuit that was filed in the United States Court of Federal Claims (the “Court”) in Washington, D.C. alleging that the U.S. government materially breached the terms of forty undeveloped federal leases, some of which are part of our offshore California properties. On November 15, 2005 and October 31, 2006, the Court granted summary judgment as to liability and partial summary judgment as to damages with respect to thirty six of the forty total federal leases that are the subject of the litigation. Under a restitution theory of damages, the Court ruled that the government must give back to the current lessees the more than $1.1 billion in lease bonuses it had received at the time of sale. On January 19, 2006, the government filed a motion for reconsideration of the Court’s ruling as it relates to a single lease owned entirely by us (“Lease 452”). In its motion for reconsideration, the government has asserted that we should not be able to recover lease bonus payments for Lease 452 because, allegedly, a significant portion of the hydrocarbons has been drained by wells that were drilled on an immediately adjacent lease. The amount of lease bonus payments attributable to Lease 452 is approximately $92.0 million. A trial on the motion for reconsideration was completed in January 2008 and post-trial briefing is currently in process. We believe that the government’s assertion is without merit, but we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of this matter.
On January 12, 2007, the Court entered an order of final judgment awarding the lessees restitution of the original lease bonuses paid for thirty five of the forty lawsuit leases. Under this order we are entitled to receive a gross amount of approximately $58.5 million and Amber is entitled to receive a gross amount of approximately $1.5 million as reimbursement for the lease bonuses paid for all lawsuit leases other than Lease 452. The government has appealed the order and contends that, among other things, the Court erred in finding that it breached the leases, and in allowing the current lessees to stand in the shoes of their predecessors for the purposes of determining the amount of damages that they are entitled to receive. The current lessees are also appealing the order of final judgment to, among other things, challenge the Court’s rulings that they cannot recover their and their predecessors’ sunk costs as part of their restitution claim. No payments will be made until all appeals have either been waived or exhausted. In the event that we ultimately receive any proceeds as the result of this litigation, we will be obligated to pay a portion to landowners and other owners of royalties and similar interests, to pay the litigation expenses and to fulfill certain pre-existing contractual commitments to third parties.
Other Fields
We derive meaningful oil and gas production from fields in non-core regions that will not constitute a significant portion of our capital budget in the future. Our interest in these fields had approximately 4.2 Bcfe in proved reserves as of December 31, 2007.
DHS Drilling Company Rigs
The Company owns 50.0% of DHS, which as of December 31, 2007 owned fifteen rigs with depth ratings of 10,000 to 20,000 feet. The following table shows property information and location for the DHS rigs.
Office Facilities
Our offices are located at 370 Seventeenth Street, Suite 4300, Denver, Colorado 80202. We lease approximately 74,000 square feet of office space. Our current payment approximates $135,000 per month and our lease will expire in December 2014.
Production
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, six months ended December 31, 2005 and fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 we have not had, nor do we now have, any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or authorities under which we acted as producer.
Impairment of Long Lived Assets
On a quarterly basis, we compare our historical cost basis of each proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas property to its expected future undiscounted cash flow from each property (on a field by field basis). Estimates of expected future cash flows represent management’s best estimate based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections. If the expected future cash flows exceed the carrying value of the property, no impairment is recognized. If the carrying value of the property exceeds the expected future cash flows, an impairment exists and is measured by the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the asset.
During the year ended December 31, 2007 the Company recorded an impairment provision of approximately $58.4 million to developed properties primarily related to the Howard Ranch and Fuller fields in Wyoming ($37.5 million and $10.3 million, respectively), and the South Angleton field in Texas ($9.7 million), primarily due to lower Rocky Mountain natural gas prices and marginally economic deep zones on the Howard Ranch Prospect.
During the year ended December 31, 2006, an impairment of $10.4 million was recorded on certain of our eastern Colorado properties primarily due to lower Rocky Mountain natural gas prices. In addition, an impairment of $1.0 million was recorded on certain Oklahoma properties.
During the six months ended December 31, 2005, a dry hole was drilled on a prospect located in Orange County, California. We determined that we would not pursue development in the prospect and accordingly an impairment of $1.3 million was recorded for the full impairment of the remaining leasehold costs related to the prospect.
Any impairment provisions recognized for developed and undeveloped properties are permanent and may not be restored in future periods. We had no impairment provision attributed to producing properties during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
We did not file any reports during the year ended December 31, 2007 with any federal authority or agency with respect to our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves.
Production Volumes, Unit Prices and Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our volumes of production sold and average prices received associated with our production and sales of natural gas and crude oil for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, six months ended December 31, 2005 and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.
Productive Wells and Acreage
The table below shows, as of December 31, 2007, the approximate number of gross and net producing oil and gas wells by state and their related developed acres owned by us. Calculations include 100% of wells and acreage owned by us and our subsidiaries. Productive wells are producing wells capable of production, including shut-in wells. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assignable to productive wells.
(1)
All of the wells classified as “oil” wells also produce various amounts of natural gas.
(2)
A “gross well” or “gross acre” is a well or acre in which a working interest is held. The number of gross wells or acres is the total number of wells or acres in which a working interest is owned.
(3)
A “net well” or “net acre” is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross wells or acres equals one. The number of net wells or net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells or gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
(4)
This does not include varying very small interests in approximately 666 gross wells (5.2 net) located primarily in Texas which are owned by our subsidiary, Piper Petroleum Company.
Undeveloped Acreage
At December 31, 2007, we held undeveloped acreage by state as set forth below:
(1)
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those lease acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(2)
Includes acreage owned by Amber.
Drilling Activity
During the years indicated, we drilled or participated in the drilling of the following productive and nonproductive exploratory and development wells:
(1)
Does not include wells in which we had only a royalty interest.
Present Drilling Activity
The following represents our planned exploration and development activities for the year ending December 31, 2008:
Item 3.