ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
(a) Office Facilities.
Our offices are located at 475 Seventeenth Street, Suite 1400, Denver, Colorado 80202. We lease approximately 9,500 square feet of office space for approximately $15,500 per month and the lease will expire in September, 2008.
(b) Oil and Gas Properties.
We own interests in producing oil and gas properties located primarily in fifteen (15) states plus off-shore Santa Barbara California. Most wells from which we receive revenues are owned only partially by us. For information concerning our oil and gas production, average prices and costs, estimated oil and gas reserves and estimated future cash flows, see the tables set forth below in this section and "Notes to Financial Statements" included in this report. We did not file oil and gas reserve estimates with any federal authority or agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission during the past two years.
Principal Properties. --------------------
The following is a brief description of our principal properties:
Onshore: -------
We own interests in approximately 464 gross (215 net) producing wells in fifteen (15) states, not including interests in those wells owned by our subsidiary, Piper Petroleum Company ("Piper"). Piper owns varying very small interests in approximately 700 gross (4.6 net) wells located primarily in Texas. Piper's wells produce approximately 30 bbls per day and 200 mcf per day net to Piper's interests.
Our principal onshore producing properties are in the following states:
Alabama -------
We own and operate a 94.5% working interest in 50 coal bed methane gas wells at depths of about 2,500 feet in Tuscaloosa County. These wells produce approximately 1650 mcf per day net to our interests.
We also own a .6455% working interest in the Hatter's Pond Unit in Mobil County which is operated by Four Star Oil and Gas. This unit produces approximately 18 barrels per day and 207 mcf per day net to our interest.
Texas -----
We own interests in 149 gross (52.7 net) wells in Texas located primarily in South Texas, East Texas and the Permian Basin with approximately one third of the production coming from each area. We operate 42 of these wells. These wells are scattered throughout 32 counties and are drilled to various depths and reservoirs with varying working interests. In aggregate these wells produce approximately 370 barrels of oil and 4,000 mcf of gas per day.
This includes our interest in the West Buna field located in Jasper and Hardin Counties which we recently acquired from Tipperary Corporation. The West Buna field contains 20 wells producing approximately 53 barrels of oil and 418 mcf of gas per day. We own an average working interest of approximately 8.5% plus additional royalty interests which give us an average net revenue interest of approximately 12.4%. We do not operate any of the West Buna Field wells.
Pennsylvania ------------
We own 143 wells with an average working interest of approximately 75% in six counties in Pennsylvania. We operate 104 of these wells. The wells are drilled to an average depth of 3,500 feet and produce approximately 1058 mcf per day net to our interests.
Louisiana ---------
In Louisiana we own interests in 15 wells with an average working interest of 56.4% located in Acadia, Catahoula, Plaquemines and Pointe Coupee parishes. We produce primarily from the Wilcox formation at a depth of 10,000 to 11,000 feet. We operate 11 of these wells. Daily production is approximately 225 barrels of oil per day net to our interests.
New Mexico ----------
We own interests in 32 wells in New Mexico, including our East Carlsbad field in Eddy County where 10 of the wells are located. These wells produce approximately 30 barrels of oil and 970 mcf of gas per day net to our interests. We operate 9 of these wells.
Other States: ------------ We also own varying interests in producing wells in the following states: California (Sacramento Basin), Colorado (D-J and Piceance Basins), Oklahoma, Illinois, Mississippi, Michigan, Kansas, Montana, Wyoming and Nebraska.
Offshore: --------
Offshore Federal Waters: Santa Barbara, California Area -------------------------------------------------------
Unproved Undeveloped Properties: -------------------------------
We own interests in five undeveloped federal units (plus one additional lease) located in federal waters offshore California near Santa Barbara.
The Santa Barbara Channel and the offshore Santa Maria Basin are the seaward portions of geologically well-known onshore basins with over 90 years of production history. These offshore areas were first explored in the Santa Barbara Channel along the near shore three mile strip controlled by the state. New field discoveries in Pliocene and Miocene age reservoir sands led to exploration into the federally controlled waters of the Pacific Outer Continental Shelf ("POCS"). Although significant quantities of oil and gas have been produced and sold from drilling conducted on POCS leases between 1966 and 1989, we do not own any interest in any offshore California production except for our small interest in the Point Arguello Unit discussed below, and there is no assurance that any of our undeveloped properties will ever achieve production.
Most of the early offshore production was from Pliocene age sandstone reservoirs. The more recent developments are from the highly fractured zones of the Miocene age Monterey Formation. The Monterey is productive in both the Santa Barbara Channel and the offshore Santa Maria Basin. It is the principal producing horizon in the Point Arguello field, the Point Pedernales field, and the Hondo and Pescado fields in the Santa Ynez Unit. Because the Monterey is capable of relatively high productive rates, the Hondo field, which has been on production since late 1981, has already surpassed 224 million Bbls of oil production and 411 Bcf of gas production. All told, offshore fields producing from the Monterey as of the end of calendar 2000 have produced 526 million Bbls of oil and 544 Bcf of gas.
California's active tectonic history over the last few million years has formed the large linear anticlinal features which trap the oil and gas. Marine seismic surveys have been used to locate and define these structures offshore.
Recent seismic surveying utilizing modern 3-D seismic technology, coupled with exploratory well data, has greatly improved knowledge of the size of reserves in fields under development and in fields for which development is planned. Currently, 11 fields are producing from 18 platforms in the Santa Barbara Channel and offshore Santa Maria Basin. Implementation of extended high-angle to horizontal drilling methods is reducing the number of platforms and wells needed to develop reserves in the area. Use of these new drilling methods and seismic technologies is expected to continue to improve development economics.
Leasing, lease administration, development and production within the Federal POCS all fall under the Code of Federal Regulations
administered by the MMS. The EPA controls disposal of effluents, such as drilling fluids and produced waters. Other Federal agencies, including the Coast Guard and the Army Corps of Engineers, also have oversight of offshore construction and operations.
The first three miles seaward of the coastline are administered by each state and are known as "State Tidelands" in California. Within the State Tidelands off Santa Barbara County, the State of California, through the State Lands Commission, regulates oil and gas leases and the installation of permanent and temporary producing facilities. Because the four units in which we own interests are located in the POCS seaward of the three mile limit, leasing, drilling, and development of these units are not directly regulated by the State of California. However, to the extent that any production is transported to an on-shore facility through the state waters, our pipelines (or other transportation facilities) would be subject to California state regulations. Construction and operation of any such pipelines would require permits from the state. Additionally, all development plans must be consistent with the Federal Coastal Zone Management Act ("CZMA"). In California the decision of CZMA consistency is made by the California Coastal Commission.
The Santa Barbara County Energy Division and the Board of Supervisors will have a significant impact on the method and timing of any offshore field development through its permitting and regulatory authority over the construction and operation of on-shore facilities. In addition, the Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District has authority in the federal waters off Santa Barbara County through the Federal Clean Air Act as amended in 1990.
Each working interest owner will be required to pay its proportionate share of these costs based upon the amount of the interest that it owns. The size of our working interest in the units, other than the Rocky Point Unit, varies from 2.492% to 15.60%. We also own a working interest of approximately 75% in the Rocky Point Unit. This interest is expected to be reduced if the Rocky Point Unit is included in the Point Arguello Unit and developed from existing Point Arguello platforms. We may be required to farm out all or a portion of our interests in these properties to a third party if we cannot fund our share of the development costs. There can be no assurance that we can farm out our interests on acceptable terms.
These units have been formally approved and are regulated by the MMS. While the Federal Government has recently attempted to expedite the process of obtaining permits and authorizations necessary to develop the properties, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in doing so.
We do not act as operator of any offshore California properties and consequently will not generally control the timing of either the development of the properties or the expenditures for development unless we choose to unilaterally propose the drilling of wells under the relevant operating agreements.
The MMS initiated the California Offshore Oil and Gas Energy Resources (COOGER) Study at the request of the local regulatory agencies of the three counties (Ventura, Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo) affected by offshore oil and gas development. A private consulting firm completed the
study under a contract with the MMS. The COOGER Study presents a long-term regional perspective of potential onshore constraints that should be considered when developing existing undeveloped offshore leases. The COOGER Study projects the economically recoverable oil and gas production from offshore leases which have not yet been developed. These projections are utilized to assist in identifying a potential range of scenarios for developing these leases. These scenarios are compared to the projected infrastructural, environmental and socioeconomic baselines between 1995 and 2015.
No specific decisions regarding levels of offshore oil and gas development or individual projects will occur in connection with the COOGER Study. Information presented in the study is intended to be utilized as a reference document to provide the public, decision makers and industry with a broad overview of cumulative industry activities and key issues associated with a range of development scenarios. We have attempted to evaluate the scenarios that were studied with respect to properties located in the eastern and central subregions (which include the Sword Unit and the Gato Canyon Unit) and the results of such evaluation are set forth below:
Scenario 1 - No new development of existing offshore leases. If this scenario were ultimately to be adopted by governmental decision makers as the proper course of action for development, our offshore California properties would in all likelihood have little or no value. In this scenario we would seek to cause the Federal government to reimburse us for all money spent by us and our predecessors for leasing and other costs and for the value of the oil and gas reserves found on the leases through our exploration activities and those of our predecessors.
Scenario 2 - Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities as currently permitted, constructed and operated (whichever is less) without additional capacity. This scenario includes modifications to allow processing and transportation of oil and natural gas with different qualities. It is likely that the adoption of this scenario by the industry as the proper course of action for development would result in lower than anticipated costs, but would cause the subject properties to be developed over a significantly extended period of time.
Scenario 3 - Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities by constructing additional capacity at existing sites to handle expanded production. This scenario is currently anticipated by our management to be the most reasonable course of action although there is no assurance that this scenario will be adopted.
Scenario 4 - Development of existing leases after decommissioning and removal of some or all existing onshore facilities. This scenario includes new facilities, and perhaps new sites, to handle anticipated future production. Under this scenario we would incur increased costs but revenues would be received more quickly.
We have also evaluated our position with regard to the scenarios with respect to properties located in the northern sub-region (which includes the Lion Rock Unit and the Point Sal Unit), the results of which are as follows: Scenario 1 - No new development of existing offshore leases. If this scenario were ultimately to be adopted by governmental decision makers as the proper course of action for development, our offshore California properties would in all likelihood have little or no value. In this scenario we would seek to cause the Federal government to reimburse us for all money spent by us and our predecessors for leasing and other costs and for the value of the oil and gas reserves found on the leases through our exploration activities and those of our predecessors.
Scenario 2 - Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities as currently permitted, constructed and operated (whichever is less) without additional capacity. This scenario includes modifications to allow processing and transportation of oil and natural gas with different qualities. It is likely that the adoption of this scenario by the industry as the proper course of action for development would result in lower than anticipated costs, but would cause the subject properties to be developed over a significantly extended period of time.
Scenario 3 - Development of existing leases, using existing onshore facilities by constructing additional capacity at existing sites to handle expanded production. This scenario is currently anticipated by our management to be the most reasonable course of action although there is no assurance that this scenario will be adopted.
Scenario 4 - Development of existing offshore leases, using existing onshore facilities with additional capacity or adding new facilities to handle a relatively low rate of expanded development. This scenario is similar to #3 above, but would entail increased costs for any new facilities.
Scenario 5 - Development of existing offshore leases, using existing onshore facilities with additional capacity or adding new facilities to handle a relatively higher rate of expanded development. Under this scenario we would incur increased costs but revenues would be received more quickly.
The development plans for the various units (which have been submitted to the MMS for review) currently provide for 22 wells from one platform set in a water depth of approximately 300 feet for the Gato Canyon Unit; 63 wells from one platform set in a water depth of approximately 1,100 feet for the Sword Unit; 60 wells from one platform set in a water depth of approximately 336 feet for the Point Sal Unit; and 183 wells from two platforms for the Lion Rock Unit.
On the Lion Rock Unit, Platform A would be set in a water depth of approximately 507 feet, and Platform B would be set in a water depth of approximately 484 feet. The reach of the deviated wells from each platform
required to drain each unit falls within the reach limits now considered to be "state-of-the-art." The development plans for the Rocky Point Unit provide for the inclusion of the Rocky Point leases in the Point Arguello Unit upon which the Rocky Point leases would be drilled from existing Point Arguello platforms with extended reach drilling technology. The approximate distances required to drain the Rocky Point leases range from 2,276 feet to 13,999 feet at proposed total vertical depths ranging from 6,620 feet to 7,360 feet.
Current Status. On October 15, 1992 the MMS directed a Suspension of Operations (SOO), effective January 1, 1993, for the POCS undeveloped leases and units. The SOO was directed for the purpose of preparing what became known as the COOGER Study. Two-thirds of the cost of the Study was funded by the participating companies in lieu of the payment of rentals on the leases. Additionally, all operations were suspended on the leases during this period. On November 12, 1999, as the COOGER Study drew to a conclusion, the MMS approved requests made by the operating companies for a Suspension of Production (SOP) status for the POCS leases and units. During the period of an SOP, the lease rentals resume and each operator is generally required to perform exploration and development activities in order to meet certain milestones set out by the MMS. The milestones that were established by the MMS for the properties in which we own an interest were established through negotiations by the MMS on behalf of the United States government and the operators on behalf of the working interest owners. We did not directly participate in these negotiations. Until recently, progress toward the milestones was monitored by the operator in quarterly reports submitted to the MMS. In February 2000 all operators completed and timely submitted to the MMS a preliminary "Description of the Proposed Project". This was the first milestone required under the SOP. Quarterly reports were also prepared and submitted for all subsequent quarters.
On June 22, 2001, however, a Federal Court in the case of California v. Norton, et al. (discussed below - see "Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation-Offshore Undeveloped Properties") ordered the MMS to set aside its approval of the suspensions of our offshore leases and to direct suspensions, including all milestone activities, for a time sufficient for the MMS to provide the State of California with a consistency determination under federal law. As a result of this order, on July 2, 2001 the MMS directed suspensions of operations for all of our offshore California leases for an indefinite period of time and suspended all of the related milestones. The ultimate outcome and effects of this litigation are not certain at the present time. In order to continue to carry out the requirements of the MMS, all operators of the units in which we own non-operating interests are prepared to meet the next milestone leading to development of the leases, but the status of the milestones is presently uncertain in light of the Norton ruling. The United States government has filed a notice of its intent to appeal the court's order in the Norton case.
On January 9, 2002, we and several other plaintiffs filed a lawsuit in the United States Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C. alleging that the U.S. Government has materially breached the terms of forty undeveloped federal leases, some of which are part of our Offshore California properties. The Complaint is based on allegations by the collective plaintiffs that the United States has materially breached the terms of certain of their Offshore California leases by attempting to deviate significantly from the procedures and standards that were in effect when the leases were entered into, and by
failing to carry out its own obligations relating to those leases in a timely and fair manner. More specifically, the plaintiffs have alleged that the judicial determination in the California v. Norton case that a 1990 amendment to the Coastal Zone Management Act required the Government to make a consistency determination prior to granting lease suspension requests in 1999 constitutes a material change in the procedures and standards that were in effect when the leases were issued. The plaintiffs have also alleged that the United States has failed to afford them the timely and fair review of their lease suspension requests which has resulted in significant, continuing and material delays to their exploratory and development operations.
The forty undeveloped leases are located in the Offshore Santa Maria Basin off the coast of Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo counties, and in the Santa Barbara Channel off Santa Barbara and Ventura counties. None of these leases is currently impaired, but in the event that there is some future adverse ruling by the California Coastal Commission under the Coastal Zone Management Act and we decide not to appeal such ruling to the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary of Commerce either refuses to hear our appeal of any such ruling or ultimately makes a determination adverse to us, it is likely that some or all of these leases would become impaired and written off at that time.
In addition, it should be noted that our pending litigation against the United States is predicated on the ruling of the lower court in California v. Norton. The United States has appealed the decision of the lower court to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. In the event that the United States is not successful in its appeal(s) of the lower court's decision in the Norton case and the pending litigation with us is not settled, it would be necessary for us to reevaluate whether the leases should be considered impaired at that time.
As the ruling in the Norton case currently stands, the United States has been ordered to make a consistency determination under the Coastal Zone Management Act, but the leases are still valid. If through the appellate process the leases are found not to be valid for some reason, or if the United States is finally ordered to make a consistency determination and either does not do so or finds that development is inconsistent with the Coastal Zone Management Act, it would appear that the leases would become impaired even though we would undoubtedly proceed with our litigation. It is also possible that other events could occur during the appellate process that would cause the leases to become impaired, and we will continuously evaluate those factors as they occur.
The suit seeks compensation for the lease bonuses and rentals paid to the Federal Government, exploration costs and related expenses. The total amount claimed by all lessees for bonuses and rentals exceeds $1.2 billion, with additional amounts for exploration costs and related expenses. our claim for lease bonuses and rentals paid by us and our predecessors is in excess of $152,000,000. In addition, our claim for exploration costs and related expenses will also be substantial.
On May 18, 2001 (prior to the Norton decision), a revised Development and Production Plan for the Point Arguello Unit was submitted to the MMS and the California Coastal Commission ("CCC") for approval. If approved by the CCC, this plan would enable development of the Rocky Point Unit from the Point Arguello platforms that are already in existence.
Under law, the CCC is typically required to make a determination as to whether or not the Plan is "consistent" with California's Coastal Plan within three months of submission, with a maximum of three months' extension (a total of six months). By correspondence dated August 7, 2001, however, the Unit operator requested that the CCC suspend the consistency review for the revised Development and Production Plan since the MMS had temporarily stopped work on the processing of the plan as the result of the Norton decision.
Although it currently appears likely that the CCC may require some additional supplemental information to be provided with respect to some aspects of air and water quality when its review continues, we believe that the Rocky Point Development and Production Plan that was submitted meets the requirements established by applicable federal regulations. In accordance with these regulations, the Plan includes very specific information regarding the planned activities, including a description of and schedule for the development and production activities to be performed, including plan commencement date, date of first production, total time to complete all development and production activities, and dates and sequences for drilling wells and installing facilities and equipment, and a description of the drilling vessels, platforms, pipelines and other facilities and operations located offshore which are proposed or known by the lessee (whether or not owned or operated by the lessee) to be directly related to the proposed development, including the location, size, design, and important safety, pollution prevention, and environmental monitoring features of the facilities and operations. The current Development and Production Plan calls for drilling activities to be conducted from the existing Point Arguello platforms using extended reach drilling techniques with oil and gas production to be transported through existing pipelines to existing onshore production facilities. The plan does not require the construction of new platforms, pipelines or production facilities.
In accordance with applicable federal regulations, the following supporting information accompanies the Development and Production Plan: (1) geological and geophysical data and information, including: (i) a plat showing the surface location of any proposed fixed structure or well; (ii) a plat showing the surface and bottomhole locations and giving the measured and true vertical depths for each proposed well; (iii) current interpretations of relevant geological and geophysical data; (iv) current structure maps showing the surface and bottomhole location of each proposed well and the depths of expected productive formations; (v) interpreted structure sections showing the depths of expected productive formations; (vi) a bathymetric map showing surface locations of fixed structures and wells or a table of water depths at each proposed site; and (vii) a discussion of seafloor conditions including a shallow hazards analysis for proposed drilling and platform sites and pipeline routes.
As required by federal regulations, the information contained in the Plan contains proposed precautionary measures, including a classification of the lease area, a contingency plan, a description of the environmental safeguards to be implemented, including an updated oil-spill response plan; and a discussion of the steps that have been or will be taken to satisfy the conditions of lease stipulations, a description of technology and reservoir
engineering practices intended to increase the ultimate recovery of oil and gas, i.e., secondary, tertiary, or other enhanced recovery practices; a description of technology and recovery practices and procedures intended to assure optimum recovery of oil and gas; a discussion of the proposed drilling and completion programs; a detailed description of new or unusual technology to be employed; and a brief description of the location, description, and size of any offshore and land-based operations to be conducted or contracted for as a result of the proposed activity; including the acreage required in California for facilities, rights-of-way, and easements, the means proposed for transportation of oil and gas to shore; the routes to be followed by each mode of transportation; and the estimated quantities of oil and gas to be moved along such routes; an estimate of the frequency of boat and aircraft departures and arrivals, the onshore location of terminals, and the normal routes for each mode of transportation.
As required, the Plan also provides a list of the proposed drilling fluids, including components and their chemical compositions, information on the projected amounts and rates of drilling fluid and cuttings discharges, and methods of disposal, and specifies the quantities, types, and plans for disposal of other solid and liquid wastes and pollutants likely to be generated by offshore, onshore, and transport operations and, regarding any wastes which may require onshore disposal, the means of transportation to be used to bring the wastes to shore, disposal methods to be utilized, and the location of onshore waste disposal or treatment facilities.
In order to comply with federal regulations, the Plan also addresses the approximate number of people and families to be added to the population of local nearshore areas as a result of the planned development, provides an estimate of significant quantities of energy and resources to be used or consumed including electricity, water, oil and gas, diesel fuel, aggregate, or other supplies which may be purchased within California, and specifies the types of contractors or vendors which will be needed, although not specifically identified, and which may place a demand on local goods and services.
The Plan also identifies the source, composition, frequency, and duration of emissions of air pollutants and provides a narrative description of the existing environment with an emphasis placed on those environmental values that may be affected by the proposed action. This section of the Plan contains a description of the physical environment of the area covered by the Plan and includes data and information obtained or developed by the lessee together with other pertinent information and data available to the lessee from other sources. The environmental information and data includes a description of the aquatic biota, including fishery and marine mammal use of the lease, the significance of the lease and identifies the threatened and endangered species and their critical habitat.
The Plan also addresses environmentally sensitive areas (e.g., refuges, preserves, sanctuaries, rookeries, calving grounds, coastal habitats, beaches, and areas of particular environmental concern) which may be affected by the proposed activities, the predevelopment, ambient water-column quality and temperature data for incremental depths for the areas encompassed by the plan, the physical oceanography, including ocean currents described as to prevailing direction, seasonal variations, and variations at different water depths in the lease, and describes historic weather patterns and other
meteorological conditions, including storm frequency and magnitude, wave height and direction, wind direction and velocity, air temperature, visibility, freezing and icing conditions, and ambient air quality listing, where possible, the means and extremes of each.
The Plan further identifies other uses of the area, including military use for national security or defense, subsistence hunting and fishing, commercial fishing, recreation, shipping, and other mineral exploration or development and describes the existing and planned monitoring systems that are measuring or will measure impacts of activities on the environment in the planning area. As required, the Plan provides an assessment of the effects on the environment expected to occur as a result of implementation of the Plan, and identifies specific and cumulative impacts that may occur both onshore and offshore, and describes the measures proposed to mitigate these impacts. These impacts are quantified to the fullest extent possible including magnitude and duration and are accumulated for all activities for each of the major elements of the environment (e.g., water and biota). The Plan also provides a discussion of alternatives to the activities proposed that were considered during the development of the Plan, including a comparison of the environmental effects.
As required, the Plan provides certain supporting information with respect to the projected emissions from each proposed or modified facility for each year of operation and the bases for all calculations, including, for each source, the amount of the emission by air pollutant expressed in tons per year and frequency and duration of emissions; for each proposed facility, the total amount of emissions by air pollutant expressed in tons per year, the frequency distribution of total emissions by air pollutant expressed in pounds per day and, in addition for a modified facility only, the incremental amount of total emissions by air pollutant resulting from the new or modified source(s); and a detailed description of all processes, processing equipment and storage units, including information on fuels to be burned; and a schematic drawing which identifies the location and elevation of each source.
In order to continue to carry out the requirements of the MMS when they resume, all operators of the units in which we own non-operating interests are prepared to complete any studies and project planning necessary to commence development of the leases. Where additional drilling is needed, the operators will bring a mobile drilling unit to the POCS to further delineate the undeveloped oil and gas fields.
Cost to Develop Offshore California Properties. The cost to develop four of the five undeveloped units (plus one lease) located offshore California, including delineation wells, environmental mitigation, development wells, fixed platforms, fixed platform facilities, pipelines and power cables, onshore facilities and platform removal over the life of the properties (assumed to be 38 years), is estimated by the partners to be in excess of $3 billion. Our share based on our current working interest of such costs over the life of the properties is estimated to be over $200 million. There will be additional costs of a currently undetermined amount to develop the Rocky Point Unit which is the fifth undeveloped unit in which we own an interest.
To the extent that we do not have sufficient cash available to pay our share of expenses when they become payable under the respective operating
agreements, it will be necessary for us to seek funding from outside sources. Likely potential sources for such funding are currently anticipated to include (a) public and private sales of our common stock (which may result in substantial ownership dilution to existing shareholders), (b) bank debt from one or more commercial oil and gas lenders, (c) the sale of debt instruments to investors, (d) entering into farm-out arrangements with respect to one or more of our interests in the properties whereby the recipient of the farm-out would pay the full amount of our share of expenses and we would retain a carried ownership interest (which would result in a substantial diminution of our ownership interest in the farmed-out properties), (e) entering into one or more joint venture relationships with industry partners, (f) entering into financing relationships with one or more industry partners, and (g) the sale of some or all of our interests in the properties.
It is unlikely that any one potential source of funding would be utilized exclusively. Rather, it is more likely that we will pursue a combination of different funding sources when the need arises. Regardless of the type of financing techniques that are ultimately utilized, however, it currently appears likely that because of our small size in relation to the magnitude of the capital requirements that will be associated with the development of the subject properties, we will be forced in the future to issue significant amounts of additional shares, pay significant amounts of interest on debt that presumably would be collateralized by all of our assets (including our offshore California properties), reduce our ownership interest in the properties through sales of interests in the properties or as the result of farmouts, industry financing arrangements or other partnership or joint venture relationships, or to enter into various transactions which will result in some combination of the foregoing. In the event that we are not able to pay our share of expenses as a working interest owner as required by the respective operating agreements, it is possible that we might lose some portion of our ownership interest in the properties under some circumstances, or that we might be subject to penalties which would result in the forfeiture of substantial revenues from the properties.
While the costs to develop the offshore California properties in which we own an interest are anticipated to be substantial in relation to our small size, management believes that the opportunities for us to increase our asset base and ultimately improve our cash flow are also substantial in relation to our size. Although there are several factors to be considered in connection with our plans to obtain funding from outside sources as necessary to pay our proportionate share of the costs associated with developing our offshore properties (not the least of which is the possibility that prices for petroleum products could decline in the future to a point at which development of the properties is no longer economically feasible), we believe that the timing and rate of development in the future will in large part be motivated by the prices paid for petroleum products.
To the extent that prices for petroleum products were to decline below their recent levels, it is likely that development efforts will proceed at a slower pace such that costs will be incurred over a more extended period of time. If petroleum prices remain at current levels, however, we believe that development efforts will intensify. Our ability to successfully negotiate financing to pay our share of development costs on favorable terms will be inextricably linked to the prices that are paid for petroleum products
during the time period in which development is actually occurring on each of the subject properties.
Gato Canyon Unit. We hold a 15.60% working interest in the Gato Canyon Unit. This 10,100 acre unit is operated by Samedan Oil Corporation. Seven test wells have been drilled on the Gato Canyon structure. Five of these were drilled within the boundaries of the Unit and two were drilled outside the Unit boundaries in the adjacent State Tidelands. The test wells were drilled as follows: within the boundaries of the Unit, three wells were drilled by Exxon, two in 1968 and one in 1969; one well was drilled by Arco in 1985 and one well was drilled by Samedan in 1989. Outside the boundaries of the Unit, in the State Tidelands but still on the Gato Canyon Structure, one well was drilled by Mobil in 1966 and one well was drilled by Union Oil in 1967. In April 1989, Samedan tested the P-0460 #2 which yielded a combined test flow rate of 5,160 Bbls of oil per day from six intervals in the Monterey Formation between 5,880 and 6,700 feet of drilled depth. The Monterey Formation is a highly fractured shale formation. The Monterey (which ranges from 500 feet to 2,900 feet in thickness) is the main productive and target zone in many offshore California oil fields (including our federal leases and/or units).
The Gato Canyon field is located in the Santa Barbara Channel approximately three to five miles offshore (see Map). Water depths range from 280 feet to 600 feet in the area of the field. Oil and gas produced from the field is anticipated to be processed onshore at the existing Las Flores Canyon facility (see Map). Las Flores Canyon has been designated a "consolidated site" by Santa Barbara County and is available for use by offshore operators. Any processed oil is expected to be transported out of Santa Barbara County in the All American Pipeline (see Map). Offshore pipeline distance to access the Las Flores site is approximately six miles. Our share of the estimated capital costs to develop the Gato Canyon field is approximately $45 million.
As a result of the Norton case, the Gato Canyon Unit leases are held under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. An updated Exploration Plan is expected to include plans to drill an additional delineation well when activities are resumed. This well will be used to determine the final location of the development platform. Following the platform decision, a Development Plan will be prepared for submittal to the MMS and the other involved agencies. Two to three years will likely be required to process the Development Plan and receive the necessary approvals.
Point Sal Unit. We hold a 6.83% working interest in the Point Sal Unit. This 22,772 acre unit is operated by Aera Energy LLC, a limited liability company jointly owned by Shell Oil Company and ExxonMobil Company. Four test wells were drilled within this unit. These test wells were drilled as follows: two wells were drilled by Sun Oil (now Oryx Energy), one in 1984 and one in 1985; and the other two wells were drilled by Reading & Bates, both in 1984. All four wells drilled on this unit have indicated the presence of oil and gas in the Monterey Formation. The largest of these, the Sun P-0422 #1, yielded a combined test flow rate of 3,750 Bbls of oil per day from the Monterey. The oil in the upper block has an average estimated gravity of 10E API and the oil in the subthrust block has an average estimated gravity of 15E API.
The Point Sal field is located in the Offshore Santa Maria Basin approximately six miles seaward of the coastline. Water depths range from 300 feet to 500 feet in the area of the field. It is anticipated that oil and gas produced from the field will be processed in a new facility at an onshore site or in the existing Lompoc facility. Any processed oil would then be transported out of Santa Barbara County in either the All American Pipeline or the Tosco-Unocal Pipeline. Offshore pipeline distance is approximately six to eight miles depending on the final choice of the point of landfall. Our share of the estimated capital costs to develop the Point Sal Unit is approximately $38 million.
As a result of the Norton case, the Point Sal Unit leases are held under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. An updated Exploration Plan is expected to include plans to drill an additional delineation well when activities are resumed prior to preparing the Development Plan.
Lion Rock Unit and Federal OCS Lease P-0409. We hold a 1% net profits interest in the Lion Rock Unit and a 24.21692% working interest in 5,693 acres in Federal OCS Lease P-0409 which is immediately adjacent to the Lion Rock Unit and contains a portion of the San Miguel Field reservoir. The Lion Rock Unit is operated by Aera Energy LLC. An aggregate of 13 test wells have been drilled on the Lion Rock Unit and OCS Lease P-0409. Nine of these wells were completed and tested and indicated the presence of oil and gas in the Monterey Formation. The test wells were drilled as follows: one well was drilled by Socal (now Chevron) in 1965; six wells were drilled by Phillips Petroleum, one in 1982, two in 1983, two in 1984 and one in 1985; and six wells were drilled by Occidental Petroleum in Lease P-0409, three in 1983 and three in 1984. The oil has an average estimated gravity of 10.7E API.
The Lion Rock Unit and Lease P-0409 are located in the Offshore Santa Maria Basin eight to ten miles from the coastline. Water depths range from 300 feet to 600 feet in the area of the field. It is anticipated that any oil and gas produced at Lion Rock and P-0409 would be processed at a new facility in the onshore Santa Maria Basin or at the existing Lompoc facility, and would be transported out of Santa Barbara County in the All American Pipeline or the Tosco-Unocal Pipeline. Offshore pipeline distance will be eight to ten miles, depending on the point of landfall. Our share of the estimated capital costs to develop the Lion Rock/San Miguel field is approximately $113 million.
As a result of the Norton case, the Lion Rock Unit and Lease P-0409 are held under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. It is anticipated that upon the resumption of activities there will be an interpretation of the 3D seismic survey and the preparation of an updated Plan of Development leading to production. Additional delineation wells may or may not be drilled depending on the outcome of the interpretation of the 3D survey.
Sword Unit. We hold a 2.492% working interest in the Sword Unit. This 12,240 acre unit is operated by Conoco, Inc. In aggregate, three wells have been drilled on this unit, of which two wells were completed and tested in the Monterey formation with calculated flow rates of from 4,000 to 5,000 Bbls per day with an estimated average gravity of 10.6E API. The two
completed test wells were drilled by Conoco, one in 1982 and the second in 1985.
The Sword field is located in the western Santa Barbara Channel ten miles west of Point Conception and five miles south of Point Arguello's field Platform Hermosa. Water depths range from 1000 feet to 1800 feet in the area of the field. It is anticipated that the oil and gas produced from the Sword Field will likely be processed at the existing Gaviota consolidated facility and the oil would then be transported out of Santa Barbara County in the All American Pipeline. Access to the Gaviota plant is through Platform Hermosa and the existing Point Arguello Pipeline system. A pipeline proposed to be laid from a platform located in the northern area of the Sword field to Platform Hermosa would be approximately five miles in length. Our share of the estimated capital costs to develop the Sword field is approximately $19 million.
As a result of the Norton case, the Sword Unit leases are held under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. An updated Exploration Plan is expected to include plans to drill an additional delineation well when activities are resumed.
Rocky Point Unit. Delta, owns an 11.11% interest in OCS Block 451 (E/2) and 100% interest in OCS Block 452 and 453, which leases comprise the undeveloped Rocky Point Unit. On November 2, 2000 we entered into an agreement with all of the interest owners of Point Arguello for the development of Rocky Point and agreed, among other things, that Arguello, Inc. would become the operator of Rocky Point. Six test wells have been drilled on these leases from mobile drilling units. Five were successful and one was a dry hole. OCS-P 0451 #1, drilled in 1982, was the discovery well for the Rocky Point Field. Five delineation wells were drilled on the Unit between 1982 and 1984. Rates up to 1,500 Bbls of oil per day were tested from the Monterey formation. Rates up to 3,500 Bbls of oil per day were tested from the lower Sisquoc formation which overlies the Monterey. Oil gravities at Rocky Point range from 24 degrees to 31 degrees API.
Development of the Rocky Point Unit will be accomplished through extended-reach drilling from the platforms located within the adjacent Point Arguello Unit (see below). In 1987 an extended-reach well was successfully drilled to the southwestern edge of the Rocky Point field from Platform Hermosa located in the Point Arguello Unit. Since that time the technology of extended-reach drilling has dramatically advanced. The entire Rocky Point field is now within drilling distance from the Point Arguello Unit platforms.
As a result of the Norton case, the Rocky Point Unit leases are held under directed suspensions of operations with no specified end date. The Unit operator has prepared and timely submitted a Project Description for the development program to the MMS as the first milestone in the Schedule of Activities for the Unit. The operator, under the auspices of the MMS, has also made a presentation of the Project to the affected Federal, state and local agencies. On May 18, 2001 a revised Development and Production Plan and supporting information was submitted to the MMS and distributed to the CCC and the Office of the California Governor. The revised Development and Production Plan calls for development of the Rocky Point Unit using extended reach drilling from the existing Point Arguello platforms, and is deemed to be in final form as the MMS has acknowledged that all regulatory requirements
necessary for such a Plan have been addressed. Under law, the CCC is typically required to make a determination as to whether or not the Plan is "consistent" with California's Coastal Plan within three months of submission, with a maximum of three months' extension (a total of six months). By correspondence dated August 7, 2001, however, the Unit operator requested that the CCC suspend the consistency review for the revised Development and Production Plan since the MMS had temporarily stopped work on the processing of the plan as the result of the court decision in the Norton. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operation-Offshore Undeveloped Properties".
On January 9, 2002, we filed a lawsuit against the U.S. government along with several other companies alleging that the government breached the terms of some of our undeveloped, offshore California properties. See "Legal Proceedings."
Offshore Producing Properties: -----------------------------
Point Arugello Unit. Whiting holds, as our nominee, the equivalent of a 6.07% working interest in the form of a financial arrangement termed a "net operating interest" in the Point Arguello Unit and related facilities. In layman's terms, the term "net operating interest" is defined in our agreement with Whiting as being the positive or negative cash flow resulting to the interest from a seven step calculation which in summary subtracts royalties, operating expenses, severance taxes, production taxes and ad valorem taxes, capital expenditures, Unit fees and certain other expenses from the oil and gas sales and certain other revenues that are attributable to the interest. Within this unit are three producing platforms (Hidalgo, Harvest and Hermosa) which are operated by Arguello, Inc., a subsidiary of Plains Petroleum. In an agreement between Whiting and us (see Form 8-K dated June 9, 1999) Whiting agreed to retain all of the abandonment costs associated with our interest in the Point Arguello Unit and the related facilities.
We anticipate that we will drill one to four developmental wells on the Point Arguello Unit during fiscal 2003. Each well will cost approximately $2.8 million ($170,000 to our interest). We anticipate the costs to be paid through current operations or additional financing.
- ---------------
map page
- ---------------
(c) Production.
During the years ended June 30, 2002 and 2001 we have not had, nor do we now have, any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or authorities under which we acted as producer.
Impairment of Long Lived Assets -------------------------------
Unproved Undeveloped Offshore California Properties ---------------------------------------------------
We acquired many of our offshore properties (including our interest in Amber) in a series of transactions from 1992 to the present. These properties are carried at our cost bases and have been subject to an impairment review on an annual basis.
These properties will be expensive to develop and produce and have been subject to significant regulatory restrictions and delays. Substantial quantities of hydrocarbons are believed to exist based on estimates reported to us by the operator of the properties and the U.S. government's Mineral Management Services. The classification of these properties depends on many assumptions relating to commodity prices, development costs and timetables. We annually consider impairment of properties assuming that properties will be developed. Based on the range of possible development and production scenarios using current prices and costs, we have concluded that the cost bases of our offshore properties are not impaired at this time. There are no assurances, however, that when and if development occurs, we will recover the value of our investment in such properties.
Other Undeveloped Properties ----------------------------
Other undeveloped properties are carried at historical cost and consist of the several onshore properties. These properties are carried at our cost bases and have been subject to an impairment review on an annual basis. There are no proven reserves associated with these properties. Based on our continued interest in these properties and the possibility for future development, we have concluded that the cost bases of these other undeveloped properties are not impaired at this time. There are no assurances, however, that when and if development occurs, we will recover the value of our investments in such properties.
Onshore Producing Properties ----------------------------
We annually compare our historical cost basis of each developed oil and gas property to its expected future undiscounted cash flow from each property (on a field by field basis). Estimates of expected future cash flows represent management's best estimate based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections. If the expected future cash flows exceed the carrying value of the property, no impairment is recognized. If the carrying value of the property exceeds the expected future cash flows, an
impairment exists and is measured by the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the asset.
We had an impairment provision attributed to producing properties during the year ended June 30, 2002, of $878,000 and during the year ended June 30, 2001 of $174,000.
Any impairment provisions recognized for developed and undeveloped properties are permanent and may not be restored in the future.
The following table sets forth our average sales prices and average production costs during the periods indicated:
(d) Productive Wells and Acreage.
The table below shows, as of June 30, 2002, the approximate number of gross and net producing oil and gas wells by state and their related developed acres owned by us. Calculations include 100% of wells and acreage owned by us and by Amber. Productive wells are producing wells capable of production, including shut-in wells. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assignable to productive wells.
Oil (1) Gas Developed Acres Gross (2) Net (3) Gross (2) Net (3) Gross (2) Net (3) --------- ------- --------- ------- --------- -------
North Dakota 0 0 0 0 5,120 1,344 New Mexico 8 1.2 24 7.2 6,000 2,115 Texas 37 21.48 113 31.4 880 656 Colorado 6 4.2 5 4.00 4,480 1,600 Oklahoma 3 .93 4 1.57 California: Onshore 10 .558 8 .664 720 49 Offshore 38 2.30 0 0 11,042 669 Wyoming 0 0 2 .634 1,280 811
Nebraska 2 .0625 0 0 160 10 Michigan 1 .0096 0 0 80 1 Mississippi 5 .413 5 1.01 400 57 Illinois 12 1.8 0 0 480 72 Alabama 0 0 51 49.2 4,080 3,916 Pennsylvania 0 0 143 89.29 5,720 3,577 Louisiana 12 7.14 3 1.32 600 388 Montana 12 3.7 0 0 480 148 Kansas 1 .048 0 0 40 2 --- ----- --- ------ ------ ------ 108 27.26 358 186.27 41,562 15,360
______________
(1) All of the wells classified as "oil" wells also produce various amounts of natural gas.
(2) A "gross well" or "gross acre" is a well or acre in which a working interest is held. The number of gross wells or acres is the total number of wells or acres in which a working interest is owned.
(3) A "net well" or "net acre" is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross wells or acres equals one. The number of net wells or net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells or gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
(4) This does not include varying very small interests in approximately 700 gross wells (4.6 net) located primarily in Texas which are owned by our subsidiary, Piper Petroleum Company.
(e) Undeveloped Acreage.
At June 30, 2002, we held undeveloped acreage by state as set forth below: Undeveloped Acres (1) (2) ------------------------- Location Gross Net - -------- ----- --- South Dakota 58,400 29,200 California, offshore(3) 64,905 15,837 California, onshore 640 96 Colorado 6,060 4,554 Wyoming 960 768 Alabama 420 406 Texas 8,923 3,265 ------- ------ Total 140,308 54,126 _______________
(1) Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those lease acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
(2) Includes acreage owned by Amber.
(3) Consists of Federal leases offshore California near Santa Barbara.
(f) Drilling Activity.
During the years indicated, we drilled or participated in the drilling of the following productive and nonproductive exploratory and development wells:
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended June 30,2002 June 30, 2001 June 30, 2000 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net ------------ ------------- ------------- Exploratory Wells(1): Productive: Oil 0 .00 0 .00 0 .00 Gas 0 .00 0 .00 0 .00 Nonproductive 5 2.70 6 2.24 0 .00 - ---- - ---- - --- Total 5 2.70 6 2.24 0 .00
Development Wells(1): Productive: Oil 4 .242 3 .18 3 .18 Gas 6 .491 7 .37 2 .25 Nonproductive 0 .00 0 .00 0 .00 -- ---- -- ---- - --- Total 10 .733 10 .55 5 .43 Total Wells(1): Productive: Oil 4 .242 3 .18 3 .18 Gas 6 2.700 7 .37 2 .25 Nonproductive 5 .491 6 2.24 0 .00 -- ----- -- ---- - --- Total Wells 15 3.433 16 2.79 5 .43 ________________
(1) Does not include wells in which the Company had only a royalty interest.
(g) Present Drilling Activity.
We plan to participate in the drilling of approximately 20 new wells before the end of fiscal 2003.
Certain Risks
Prospective investors should consider carefully, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report, the following:
1. We have substantial debt obligations and shortages of funding could hurt our future operations.
As the result of debt obligations that we have incurred in connection with purchases of oil and gas properties, we are obligated to make substantial monthly payments to our lenders on loans which encumber our oil and gas properties and our production revenue. At the present time we are almost totally dependent upon the revenues that we receive from our oil and gas properties to service the debt. In the event that oil and gas prices and/or production rates drop to a level that we are unable to pay the minimum principal and interest payments that are required by our debt agreements, it is likely that we would lose our interest in some or all of our properties. In addition, our level of oil and gas activities, including exploration and development of existing properties, and additional property acquisitions, will be significantly dependent on our ability to successfully conclude funding transactions.
2. A default under our credit agreement could cause us to lose our properties.
In connection with our acquisition of Castle's properties on May 31, 2002, we entered into a credit facility with Bank of Oklahoma and Local Oklahoma Bank which allows us to borrow, repay and reborrow amounts. In order to obtain this facility, we granted a first and prior lien to the lending banks on most of our oil and gas properties, certain related equipment, oil and gas inventory, certain bank accounts and proceeds. Under the terms of our credit agreement, the oil and gas properties mortgaged must represent not less than 80% of the engineered value of our oil and gas properties as determined by the Bank of Oklahoma using its own pricing parameters, exclusive of the properties that are mortgaged to Kaiser-Francis under a separate lending arrangement. Our borrowing base, which determines the amounts that we are allowed to borrow or have outstanding under our credit facility, was initially determined to be $20 million at the time we entered into our credit agreement. Subsequent determinations of our borrowing base will be made by the lending banks at least semi-annually on October 1 and April 1 of each year beginning October 1, 2002 or as unscheduled redeterminations. In connection with each determination of our borrowing base, the banks will also redetermine the amount of our monthly commitment reduction. The monthly commitment reduction was $260,000.00 beginning as of July 1, 2002 and will continue at that amount until the amount of the monthly commitment reduction is redetermined.
Our borrowing base and the revolving commitment of the banks to lend money under the credit agreement must be reduced as of the first day of each month by an amount determined by the banks under our credit agreement. The amount of the borrowing base must also be reduced from time to time by the amount of any prepayment that results from our sale of oil and gas properties. If as a result of any such monthly commitment reduction or reduction in the amount of our borrowing base, the total amount of our outstanding debt ever exceeds the amount of the revolving commitment then in effect, then within 30 days after we are notified by the Bank of Oklahoma, we must make a mandatory prepayment of principal that is sufficient to cause our total outstanding indebtedness to not exceed our borrowing base.
If for any reason we were unable to pay the full amount of the mandatory prepayment within the 30 requisite day period, we would be in default of our obligations under our credit agreement.
For so long as the revolving commitment is in existence or any amount is owed under any of the loan documents, we will also be required to comply with a substantial number of loan covenants that will limit our flexibility in conducting our business and which could cause us significant problems in the event of a downturn in the oil and gas market.
Upon occurrence of an event of default and after the expiration of any cure period that is provided in our credit agreement, the entire principal amount due under the notes, all accrued interest and any other liabilities that we might have to the lending banks under the loan documents will all become immediately due and payable, all without notice and without presentment, demand, protest, notice of protest or dishonor or any other notice of default of any kind, and we will not be permitted to service our obligations under our loan agreement with Kaiser-Francis Oil Company from proceeds of the collateral securing the loan under our credit agreement including, but not limited to, oil and gas properties or any related operating fees.
The foregoing information is provided to alert investors that there is risk associated with our existing debt obligations. It is not intended to provide a summary of the terms of our agreements with our lenders. Complete copies of our credit agreement and other loan documents are filed as an exhibit to our Report on Form 8-K dated May 24, 2002.
3. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability.
We have incurred substantial losses from our operations over the past several years except fiscal 2001, and at June 30, 2002 we had an accumulated deficit of $28,853,000. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, we had total revenue of $8,210,000, operating expenses of $13,251,000 and a net loss for the year of $6,253,000. During fiscal 2001 we had total revenue of $12,877,000, operating expenses of $11,199,000 and had net income of $345,000. During the year ended June 30, 2000, we had total revenue of $3,576,000, operating expenses of $5,655,000 and a net loss for fiscal 2000 of $3,367,000.
4. The substantial cost to develop certain of our offshore California properties could result in a reduction in our interest in these properties or penalize us.
Certain of our offshore California undeveloped properties, in which we have ownership interests ranging from 2.49% to 75%, are attributable to our interests in four of our five federal units (plus one additional lease) located offshore California near Santa Barbara. The cost to develop these properties will be very substantial. The cost to develop all of these offshore California properties in which we own an interest, including delineation wells, environmental mitigation, development wells, fixed platforms, fixed platform facilities, pipelines and power cables, onshore facilities and platform removal over the life of the properties (assumed to be 38 years), is estimated to be in excess of $3 billion. Our share of such
costs, based on our current ownership interest, is estimated to be over $200 million.
Operating expenses for the same properties over the same period of time, including platform operating costs, well maintenance and repair costs, oil, gas and water treating costs, lifting costs and pipeline transportation costs, are estimated to be approximately $3.5 billion, with our share, based on our current ownership interest, estimated to be approximately $300 million. There will be additional costs of a currently undetermined amount to develop the Rocky Point Unit. Each working interest owner will be required to pay its proportionate share of these costs based upon the amount of the interest that it owns. If we are unable to fund our share of these costs or otherwise cover them through farmouts or other arrangements, then we could either forfeit our interest in certain wells or properties or suffer other penalties in the form of delayed or reduced revenues under our various unit operating agreements.
5. The development of the offshore units could be delayed or halted.
The California offshore federal units have been formally approved and are regulated by the Minerals Management Service of the federal government ("MMS"). The MMS initiated the California Offshore Oil and Gas Energy Resources(COOGER) study at the request of the local regulatory agencies of the affected Tri-Counties. The COOGER study was completed in January of 2000 and is intended to present a long-term regional perspective of potential onshore constraints that should be considered when developing existing undeveloped offshore leases. The "worst" case scenario under the COOGER study is that no new development of existing offshore leases would occur. If this scenario were ultimately to be adopted by governmental decision makers and the industry as the proper course of action for development, our offshore California properties would in all likelihood have little or no value. Under those circumstances we would seek to cause the Federal government to reimburse us for all money spent by us and our predecessors for leasing and other costs and/or for the value of the oil and gas reserves found on the leases through our exploration activities and those of our predecessors. On June 22, 2001, in litigation relating to the development of these properties brought by the State of California, a Federal Court ordered the MMS to set aside its approval of the suspensions of our offshore leases that were granted while the COOGER Study was being completed, and to direct suspensions, including all milestone activities, for a time sufficient for the MMS to provide the State of California with a consistency determination under federal law. On July 2, 2001 these milestones were suspended by the MMS.
In a separate action, on January 9, 2002 we and several other plaintiffs filed a lawsuit in the United States Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C. alleging that the U.S. Government materially breached the terms of the leases for our offshore California properties. Our suit seeks compensation for the lease bonuses and rentals paid to the Federal Government, exploration costs, and related expenses. The ultimate outcome and effects of the litigation pertaining to our Offshore California properties are not certain at the present time.
6. We will have to incur substantial costs in order to develop our reserves and we may not be able to secure funding.
Relative to our financial resources, we have significant undeveloped properties in addition to those in offshore California discussed above that will require substantial costs to develop. During the year ended June 30, 2001, we participated in the drilling and completion or recompletion of seven gas wells and six non-productive wells. During the year ended June 30, 2002, we participated in the drilling of four offshore wells at a cost to us of approximately $680,000, and 11 (6 successful and 5 unsuccessful) onshore wells at a cost to us of approximately $1,140,000. The cost of these wells either has been or will be paid out of our cash flow.
We drilled 6 successful and 5 unsuccessful wells onshore and drilled 4 successful offshore wells in fiscal 2002. Our level of future oil and gas activity, including exploration and development and property acquisitions, will be to a significant extent dependent upon our ability to successfully conclude funding transactions.
We expect to continue incurring costs to acquire, explore and develop oil and gas properties, and management predicts that these costs (together with general and administrative expenses) will be in excess of funds available from revenues from properties owned by us and existing cash on hand. It is anticipated that the source of funds to carry out such exploration and development will come from a combination of our sale of working interests in oil and gas leases, production revenues, sales of our securities, and funds from any funding transactions in which we might engage.
7. Current and future governmental regulations will affect our operations.
Our activities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations controlling not only the exploration for and sale of oil, but also the possible effects of such activities on the environment. Present as well as future legislation and regulations could cause additional expenditures, restrictions and delays in our business, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and may require us to cease operations in some circumstances. In addition, the production and sale of oil and gas are subject to various governmental controls. Because federal energy policies are still uncertain and are subject to constant revisions, no prediction can be made as to the ultimate effect on us of such governmental policies and controls.
8. We hold only a minority interest in certain properties and, therefore, generally will not control the timing of development.
We currently do not operate approximately 42% of the wells in which we own an interest and we are dependent upon the operators of the wells that we do not operate to make most decisions concerning such things as whether or not to drill additional wells, how much production to take from such wells, or whether or not to cease operation of certain wells. Further, we do not act as operator of and, with the exception of Rocky Point, we do not own a controlling interest in any of our offshore California properties. While we, as a working interest owner, may have some voice in the decisions concerning the wells, we are not the primary decision maker concerning them. As a result, we will generally not control the timing of either the development of
most of these non-operated properties or the expenditures for their development. Because we are not in control of the non-operated wells, we may not be able to cause wells to be drilled even though we may have the funds with which to pay our proportionate share of the expenses of such drilling, or, alternatively, we may incur development expenses at a time when funds are not available to us. We hold only a minority interest in and do not operate many of our properties and, therefore, generally will not control the timing of development on these properties.
9. We are subject to the general risks inherent in oil and gas exploration and operations.
Our business is subject to risks inherent in the exploration, development and operation of oil and gas properties, including but not limited to environmental damage, personal injury, and other occurrences that could result in our incurring substantial losses and liabilities to third parties. In our own activities, we purchase insurance against risks customarily insured against by others conducting similar activities. Nevertheless, we are not insured against all losses or liabilities which may arise from all hazards because such insurance is not available at economic rates, because the operator has not purchased such insurance, or because of other factors. Any uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on us.
10. We have no long-term contracts to sell oil and gas.
We do not have any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or authorities for which we act as a producer. We are therefore dependent upon our ability to sell oil and gas at the prevailing well head market price. There can be no assurance that purchasers will be available or that the prices they are willing to pay will remain stable.
11. Our business is not diversified.
Since all of our resources are devoted to one industry, purchasers of our common stock will be risking essentially their entire investment in a company that is focused only on oil and gas activities.
12. Our shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
Holders of our common stock are not entitled to accumulate their votes for the election of directors or otherwise. Accordingly, the present shareholders will be able to elect all of our directors, and holders of the common stock offered by this prospectus will not be able to elect a representative to our Board of Directors. See "DESCRIPTION OF COMMON STOCK."
13. We do not expect to pay dividends.
There can be no assurance that our proposed operations will result in sufficient revenues to enable us to operate at profitable levels or to generate a positive cash flow, and our current loan documents prevent us from paying dividends. For the foreseeable future, it is anticipated that any earnings which may be generated from our operations will be used to finance our growth and that dividends will not be paid to holders of common stock. See "DESCRIPTION OF COMMON STOCK."
14. We depend on key personnel.
We currently have only three employees that serve in management roles, and the loss of any one of them could severely harm our business. In particular, Roger A. Parker is responsible for the operation of our oil and gas business, Aleron H. Larson, Jr. is responsible for other business and corporate matters, and Kevin K. Nanke is our chief financial officer. We do not have key man insurance on the lives of any of these individuals.
15. We allow our key personnel to purchase working interests on the same terms as us.
In the past we have occasionally allowed our key employees to purchase working interests in our oil and gas properties on the same terms as us in order to provide a meaningful incentive to the employees and to align their own personal financial interests with ours in making decisions affecting the properties in which they own an interest.
Specifically, on February 12, 2001, our Board of Directors permitted Aleron H. Larson, Jr., our Chairman, Roger A. Parker, our President, and Kevin K. Nanke, our CFO, to purchase working interests of 5% each for Messrs. Larson and Parker and 2-1/2% for Mr. Nanke in our Cedar State gas property located in Eddy County, New Mexico and in our Ponderosa Prospect consisting of approximately 52,000 gross acres in Harding and Butte Counties, South Dakota held for exploration. These officers were authorized to purchase these interests on or before March 1, 2001 at a purchase price equivalent to the amounts paid by us for each property as reflected upon our books by delivering to us shares of Delta common stock at the February 12, 2001 closing price of $5.125 per share. Messrs. Larson and Parker each delivered 31,310 shares and Mr. Nanke delivered 15,655 shares in exchange for their interests in these properties.
Also on February 12, 2001, we granted to Messrs. Larson and Parker and Mr. Nanke the right to participate in the drilling of the Austin State #1 well in Eddy County, New Mexico by having them commit to us on February 12, 2001 (prior to any bore hole knowledge or information relating to the objective zone or zones)to pay 5% each by Messrs. Larson and Parker and 2-1/2% by Mr. Nanke of our working interest costs of drilling and completion or abandonment costs, which costs may be paid in either cash or in Delta common stock at $5.125 per share. All of these officers committed to participate in the well under the condition that they would be assigned their respective working interests in the well and associated spacing unit after they had been billed and had paid for the interests as required.
To the extent that key employees are permitted to purchase working interests in wells that are successful, they will receive benefits of ownership that might otherwise have been available to us. Conversely, to the extent that key employees purchase working interests in wells that are ultimately not successful, such purchases may result in personal financial losses for our key employees that could potentially divert their attention from our business.
16. The exercise of our Put Rights may dilute the interests of other security holders.
We have entered into an arrangement with Swartz Private Equity, LLC under which we may sell shares of our common stock to Swartz at a discount from the then prevailing market price. The exercise of these rights may substantially dilute the interests of other security holders.
Under the terms of our relationship with Swartz, we will issue shares to Swartz upon exercise of our Put Rights at a price equal to the lesser of: the market price for each share of our common stock minus $.25; or 91% of the market price for each share of our common stock.
17. The sale of material amounts of our common stock could reduce the price of our common stock and encourage short sales.
If and when we exercise our Put Rights and sell shares of our common stock to Swartz, if and to the extent that Swartz sells the common stock, our common stock price may decrease due to the additional shares in the market. If the price of our common stock decreases, and if we decide to exercise our right to put shares to Swartz, we must issue more shares of our common stock for any given dollar amount invested by Swartz, subject to a designated minimum Put price that we specify. This may encourage short sales, which could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Under the terms of the Investment Agreement with Swartz, however, we are not obligated to sell any of our shares to Swartz nor do we intend to sell shares to Swartz unless it is beneficial to us.
ITEM 3.