ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The properties of the Company consist primarily of its 11 waste management facilities and 22 service centers, various environmental remediation equipment, and a fleet of approximately 1,074 registered pieces of transportation equipment. Most service center locations are leased, and occasionally move to other locations as operations grow and space requirements increase. The 11 waste management facilities are described below. All of such facilities are owned by the Company, except for the Chicago hazardous waste management facility which is leased under a lease which (with extensions) expires September 2020 and the Woburn, Massachusetts waste oil treatment and storage facility which is leased under a lease which (with extensions) expires February 2004.
Hazardous Waste Management Facilities. The Company currently maintains seven hazardous waste management facilities at which it processes, treats and temporarily stores hazardous wastes for later resale, reuse or off-site treatment or disposal. Every facility that treats, stores or disposes of hazardous wastes must obtain a license from the federal EPA or an authorized state agency and must comply with certain operating requirements. See "Environmental Regulation-Federal Regulation of Hazardous Waste" below for a description of licenses issued under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 ("RCRA"). All seven hazardous waste management facilities, as well as the Nebraska hazardous waste incinerator facility which the Company intends to acquire, are subject to RCRA licensing. The incinerator and all seven of the Company's hazardous waste management facilities have been issued RCRA Part B licenses, one of which is under appeal.
In addition, two of the Company's four waste oil treatment and storage facilities described below are subject to RCRA licensing, because some petroleum products, such as gasoline, are considered hazardous waste under federal law. In order to handle a variety of waste oil and petroleum products and support its field service activities in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, the Company has obtained RCRA licenses for those two facilities.
The Company has made substantial modifications and improvements to the physical plant and treatment and process equipment at its treatment facilities. These modifications are consistent with the Company's strategy to upgrade the quality and efficiency of treatment services, to expand the range of services provided and to ensure regulatory compliance and operating efficiencies at these facilities. Major features of this program are the addition of new treatment systems, such as the CES in Baltimore, expansion of analytical testing laboratories, drum storage and processing facilities, and equipment rearrangement and replacement to improve operating efficiency.
Braintree, MA. The Company's largest facility is located in Braintree, Massachusetts, just south of Boston. The facility is primarily engaged in drummed waste processing and consolidation, solvent recovery, transformer decommissioning, PCB storage and processing, blending of waste used as supplemental fuel by industrial furnaces, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, and incineration of small quantities of nonhazardous waste. The facility has been operated under a state Interim Hazardous Waste Facility License, which gave it Part A Interim Status, since 1981. The Company acquired the facility in 1985. In June 1992, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (the "DEP") approved the Company's application for a final Hazardous Waste Facility License, which would give the facility a final Part B license for a five-year term. The Town of Braintree and two adjoining communities have appealed the DEP's decision to issue the final Part B license, and requested an adjudicatory hearing before the DEP, which is the normal appeal process. The appeal is an administrative proceeding before the DEP, and the facility will continue to operate normally pursuant to its state license and Interim Status authority under RCRA while the DEP considers the appeal. The Company is confident the review will result in confirmation of the license as
granted. The authority from the federal EPA to handle PCBs is not impacted by the towns' appeal of the Part B license.
Natick, MA. The Natick, Massachusetts facility is located just west of Boston. Its primary services are collecting LabPacks and repackaging the small quantities of laboratory and household chemicals into 55-gallon drum quantities, consolidating wastes for shipment to other Company facilities or third parties for further treatment or disposal, and serving as a transfer station for the Northeast region. The facility has a state Hazardous Waste Facility License (the state equivalent of a Part B license), which was renewed in October 1994 for a five-year term. The facility is also authorized by the federal EPA to handle PCBs.
Chicago, IL. The Chicago, Illinois facility is located on the south side of Chicago, on Lake Calumet. It provides treatment of nonhazardous and hazardous industrial wastewaters, drummed waste processing and consolidation, and transfer and repackaging of laboratory chemicals into LabPacks. In November 1993, the Illinois EPA issued a Part B license for a ten-year term, which significantly expanded the waste handling and storage capacity of the facility. The new license increased drum storage capacity from 1,240 drums to 1,875 drums and allows handling of material destined for blending of waste used as supplemental fuel by industrial furnaces, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, and rail shipment of hazardous and nonhazardous waste. The Company plans to make substantial expenditures to implement this increased permitted capacity.
As an alternative to making the needed improvements to its own site, the Company has entered into a definitive agreement with Chemical Waste Management, Inc. ("ChemWaste") which would allow the Company to lease an adjoining site now leased by ChemWaste and acquire their existing improvements in exchange for sharing the costs of dismantling an existing hazardous waste incinerator and cleaning up the adjoining site. The improvements on the ChemWaste site would allow the Company to develop new product lines not currently handled at the Company's existing facility. Under the sharing arrangement with ChemWaste, the Company could over a period of 15 years be required to contribute up to a maximum of $2,000,000 for dismantling and decontaminating the incinerator and other equipment and up to a maximum of $7,000,000 for studies and cleanup of the site. Any additional costs beyond those contemplated by the sharing arrangement during this time period would be borne by ChemWaste. Completion of this transaction is subject to numerous regulatory approvals which the Company expects to obtain in the Spring of 1995.
Cleveland, OH. The Cleveland, Ohio facility is located south of downtown Cleveland. It is a wastewater treatment facility that treats nonhazardous and hazardous industrial wastewaters, and serves as a transfer station for various types of containerized hazardous and nonhazardous waste. The facility is licensed by the state as a wastewater treatment facility. The facility is not subject to Part B licensing requirements, since its on-site wastewater treatment activities are regulated pursuant to the Clean Water Act, and therefore are exempt from RCRA.
Baltimore, MD. The Baltimore, Maryland facility is located adjacent to Interstate 95 in central Baltimore. It provides treatment of nonhazardous and hazardous industrial aqueous wastes, drummed waste processing, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, and transfer of LabPacks. It is the only commercial hazardous waste treatment facility in Maryland. The facility has a state Controlled Hazardous Substances permit (the state equivalent of a Part B license), which was issued in 1987. In 1990, the Company received a permit modification to expand the range of waste streams the facility can accept and to install the CES, which allows the facility to treat a wide range of hazardous wastewaters contaminated with gasoline, chlorinated solvents and many other organic contaminants, which were formerly sent to other companies for incineration. In 1992, the Maryland Department of the Environment issued a new Controlled Hazardous Substances permit for a three-year term, which significantly expanded the waste handling and storage capacity of the facility. The new permit also allows handling of LabPacks and material destined for fuels-blending, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, and rail shipment of hazardous and nonhazardous waste.
Bristol, CT. In July 1992, the Company acquired Connecticut Treatment Corporation, located in Bristol, Connecticut, approximately 20 miles southwest of Hartford. It provides hazardous wastewater
treatment, drummed waste processing and consolidation, and transfer of LabPacks. This facility also offers two specialized services: equipment "de-manufacturing," such as dismantling outdated computers, and treatment of special categories of hazardous wastewaters known as "listed" wastewaters resulting from industrial processes such as electroplating.
The Bristol facility has a Part B license issued by the federal EPA and the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection. The license was issued in 1987 and expired in 1991. A new license was applied for and the facility continued to operate while the EPA and DEP reviewed the renewal application. The Company also applied for approval to expand the number of hazardous waste codes allowed to be handled, expand container storage capacity from 1,000 drums to 3,500 drums, and add eight tanks for storage of sludge and stabilization materials. In October 1994, the DEP issued a draft of the renewal license, with the additions requested by the Company, and invited comments from the public. If comments were submitted, then a public hearing would have been necessary. No public comments were received, and no hearing was required. The Company expects to receive the final renewal license shortly. The term of the license will be five years.
The Bristol facility also treats hazardous industrial wastewater, and has a permit to discharge to the publicly owned sewage treatment works an average of 50,000 gallons per day of treated water. These treatment activities are licensed by the Connecticut DEP pursuant to the Clean Water Act, and are not subject to Part B licensing requirements. In 1990 the Company applied for renewal and modification of its Clean Water Act license, to allow construction of additional tanks for wastewater treatment and installation of new wastewater treatment technologies, such as reverse osmosis and ultrafiltration. The discharge limit would remain at 50,000 gallons average per day. The facility currently discharges an average of approximately 30,000 gallons per day. In November 1994, the DEP issued a draft of the renewal license, with the additions requested by the Company, and invited comments from the public. The Company expects that public comments will be submitted and that a public hearing will be held.
Cincinnati, OH. In February 1993, the Company acquired Spring Grove Resource Recovery, Inc. ("Spring Grove"), located north of downtown Cincinnati, Ohio. It provides hazardous wastewater treatment, drummed waste processing and consolidation, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, and transfer of LabPacks. The facility holds a federal Part B license, which was issued in 1985 and expires in 1995, and a state Hazardous Waste Facility Installation and Operation permit which was renewed in December 1993 for a five-year term. The facility is also authorized to handle PCBs. On March 31, 1994, the Ohio EPA approved the Company's application for a revised, comprehensive state permit that expands the range of waste that may be received and treated at the facility and allows installation of sophisticated equipment for handling and processing material to be sent to boilers and industrial furnaces and used as supplemental fuel. The transfer of ownership to the Company is subject to approval by regulatory authorities, which is expected during 1995. The regulatory authorities have granted an exemption allowing the Company to acquire the stock of Spring Grove and operate the facility in the interim. If the transfer of ownership is not approved, then the seller has agreed to repurchase Spring Grove for a price equal to what the Company paid for Spring Grove ($7,000,000) with adjustments for depreciation and improvements.
Acquisition of the Kimball, Nebraska Hazardous Waste Incinerator. The Company plans to acquire a newly constructed hazardous waste incinerator in Kimball, Nebraska from Ecova Corporation, a wholly owned affiliate of Amoco Oil Company. In November 1994, the Company signed a letter of intent with Ecova Corporation, and a definitive asset purchase agreement is being negotiated.
The Kimball facility includes a 45,000 ton-per-year fluidized bed thermal oxidation unit for maximum destruction efficiency of hazardous waste. It is a new, state-of-the-art facility staffed with a highly trained and motivated workforce. The Company believes that the facility offers capabilities which will be very attractive to its major customers. In particular, the facility is expected to have operating costs lower than most other incinerators, given the minimal acquisition cost to the Company and its unique ability to dispose of delisted ash on-site, which will save on the cost of shipping ash to another company for landfilling. The Company expects to realize significant savings by using the Kimball facility to incinerate waste previously sent to other incinerators.
The incinerator has a RCRA Part B permit issued by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality ("NDEQ"). Construction is complete and final performance tests were successfully completed in December 1994. The NDEQ has approved commercial operation at 75% of capacity. All necessary permits to operate the facility have been issued, and are expected to be transferred to the Company in the Spring of 1995, when the acquisition is expected to be completed. The construction of the incinerator and its operation have received widespread support in the local community.
The incinerator is located on a 600 acre site, which includes a landfill for disposal of incinerator ash. If the chemical composition of the ash meets the permit requirements, which is subject to verification before it is landfilled on-site, the ash will be classified as "delisted", meaning it will no longer be regulated as a hazardous waste under RCRA. No other commercial incineration facility in the United States is currently permitted to delist ash. Although the ash will be classified as nonhazardous, the landfill has been constructed to meet RCRA Subtitle C standards, which are the same stringent requirements as for landfills designed to handle hazardous waste.
The letter of intent provides that Ecova will transfer the Kimball facility to the Company in return for royalty payments through 2004, based on the number of tons processed at the facility. The transaction is subject to negotiation of definitive agreements and a number of approvals from the United States EPA and the NDEQ which must approve the transfer of the facility to a new owner. The Company must also arrange financing for the acquisition costs, currently estimated to be approximately $10,000,000. According to the letter of intent, if the acquisition does not take place for any reason (other than a default by the seller), the Company would be obligated to reimburse certain of Ecova's costs of operating the incinerator after November 22, 1994, which was the date the letter of intent was signed.
Waste Oil Treatment and Storage Facilities. The Company has four waste oil treatment and storage facilities: two in Massachusetts, one in Maine, and one in Virginia. The Massachusetts facilities are located in Kingston and Woburn, in the Boston area. The Kingston facility has a state recycling permit and is able to store oil collected from various activities, ranging from routine cleaning of oil storage terminals to oil spill cleanups. The facility is also used for maintenance activities and for training of employees of the Company and third-party customers. The Woburn facility is a waste oil storage and transfer facility, and received a Part B license in October 1993 for a five-year term.
The facility in South Portland, Maine is a petroleum reclamation facility that handles most of the waste oil received by the Company, which comes primarily from the Company's remediation activities. It has a municipal sewer user permit allowing the discharge of water separated from oil. The Company also owns another property in South Portland located on Main Street. It has a license to store virgin oil, but it also is permitted for the temporary storage and transfer of containerized hazardous waste.
The Virginia facility is located near Richmond, and was acquired in September 1994 from ChemWaste. The facility is able to store oil and gasoline-contaminated wastewaters collected from various activities, ranging from routine cleaning of oil storage terminals to oil spill cleanups. The facility operates under interim status under RCRA while the state reviews its application for a Part B license.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
While the Company's business has benefited substantially from increased governmental regulation of hazardous waste transportation, storage and disposal, the industrial waste management industry itself has become the subject of extensive and evolving regulation by federal, state and local authorities. The Company makes a continuing effort to anticipate regulatory, political and legal developments that might affect its operations, but is not always able to do so. The Company cannot predict the extent to which any environmental legislation or regulation that may be enacted or enforced in the future may affect its operations.
The Company is required to obtain federal, state and local licenses or approvals for each of its hazardous waste facilities. Such licenses are difficult to obtain and, in many instances, extensive studies, tests, and public hearings are required before the approvals can be issued. The Company has acquired or is in the process of
applying for all operating licenses and approvals required for the current operation of its business and has applied for or is in the process of applying for all licenses and approvals needed in connection with planned expansion or modifications of its operations.
FEDERAL REGULATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
The most significant federal environmental laws affecting the Company are RCRA, the Superfund Act and the Clean Water Act.
RCRA. RCRA is the principal federal statute governing hazardous waste generation, treatment, transportation, storage and disposal. Pursuant to RCRA, the EPA has established a comprehensive, "cradle-to-grave" system for the management of a wide range of materials identified as hazardous waste. States, such as Massachusetts, Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland and Ohio, that have adopted hazardous waste management programs with standards at least as stringent as those promulgated by the EPA, have been authorized by the EPA to administer their facility permitting programs in lieu of the EPA's program.
Every facility that treats, stores or disposes of hazardous waste must obtain a RCRA license from the EPA or an authorized state agency and must comply with certain operating requirements. Under RCRA, hazardous waste management facilities in existence on November 19, 1980 were required to submit a preliminary license application to the EPA, the so-called Part A Application. By virtue of this filing, a facility obtained Interim Status, allowing it to operate until licensing proceedings are instituted pursuant to more comprehensive and exacting regulations (the Part B licensing process). Interim Status facilities may continue to operate pursuant to the Part A Application until their Part B licensing process is concluded. Of the Company's eleven waste management facilities, eight are subject to RCRA licensing; of the eight, only the Virginia waste oil facility operates under interim status. The other seven have been issued Part B licenses, one of which is under appeal.
RCRA requires that Part B licenses contain a schedule of required on-site study and cleanup activities, known as "corrective action," including detailed compliance schedules and provisions for assurance of financial responsibility. The EPA estimates that there are approximately 4,300 facilities that treat, store or dispose of hazardous wastes, which can be compelled to take corrective action when necessary. Some facilities are very large and have extensive contamination problems which rival the largest Superfund sites. Other facilities have relatively minor environmental problems. Still others will not need remedial action at all. It is the EPA's policy to compel corrective action at the "worst sites first." As a result, the EPA has developed a system for assessing the relative environmental cleanup priority of RCRA facilities, called the National Corrective Action Prioritization System, with a High, Medium or Low ranking for each facility. Although several facilities of its competitors have been assessed a High cleanup priority, none of the Company's RCRA facilities have been assessed as a High priority.
The EPA has begun RCRA corrective action investigations at the Company's Part B licensed facilities in Braintree, Natick, Baltimore, Chicago, and Woburn. The Company is also involved in site studies at its non-RCRA facilities in Cleveland, Ohio; Kingston, Massachusetts; and on Main Street in South Portland, Maine. The Company spent approximately $471,000 on corrective action at the foregoing facilities in 1994. The Company does not expect that corrective action will be required at its Richmond, Virginia waste oil facility.
The Company is also involved in a RCRA corrective action investigation at a site in Chester, Pennsylvania owned by Philadelphia Electric Company ("PECO"). The site consists of approximately 30 acres which PECO has leased to various companies over the years. In 1989, the Company acquired by merger a public company called ChemClear Inc., which operated a hazardous waste treatment facility on approximately eight acres of the Chester site leased from PECO. The Company ceased operations at the Chester site, decontaminated the plant and equipment, engaged an independent engineer to certify closure, and obtained final approval from the Pennsylvania regulatory authorities, certifying final closure of the facility. In 1993, the EPA ordered PECO to perform a RCRA corrective action investigation at the Chester site. PECO asked the Company to participate in the site studies, and in October 1994, the Company agreed to be responsible for seventy-five percent of the cost of these studies, which is estimated to be in the range of $1,000,000 to
$2,000,000, by performing field service work and analytical services required to complete the site studies and providing other environmental services to PECO at discounted rates.
While the final scope of the work to be done at these facilities has not yet been agreed upon, the Company believes, based upon information known to date about the nature and extent of contamination at these sites, that such costs will not have a material effect on its results of operations or its competitive position, and that it will be able to finance from operating revenues any additional corrective action required at its facilities. Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
The Bristol, Connecticut and Cincinnati, Ohio facilities were acquired from a subsidiary of Southdown, Inc. Southdown Inc. has agreed to indemnify the Company against any costs incurred or liability arising from contamination on-site, including the cost of corrective action, or waste disposed of off-site, including any liability under the Superfund Act, at those facilities.
The Superfund Act. The Superfund Act provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA to releases of hazardous substances into the environment, and authorizes the government to respond to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or to order persons responsible for any such release to perform any necessary cleanup. The statute assigns joint and several liability for these responses and other related costs, including the cost of damage to natural resources, to the parties involved in the generation, transportation and disposal of such hazardous substances. Under the statute, the Company may be deemed liable as a generator or transporter of a hazardous substance which is released into the environment, or as the owner or operator of a facility from which there is a release of a hazardous substance into the environment. See also "Business-Legal Proceedings."
Clean Water Act. This legislation prohibits discharges to the waters of the United States without governmental authorization. The EPA has promulgated "pretreatment" regulations under the Clean Water Act, which establish pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants into publicly owned treatment works. In the course of its treatment process, the Company's wastewater treatment facilities generate waste water which they discharge to publicly owned treatment works pursuant to permits issued by the appropriate governmental authority. The Clean Water Act also serves to create business opportunities for the Company in that it may prevent industrial users from discharging their untreated wastewaters to the sewer. If these industries cannot meet their discharge specifications, then they may utilize the services of an off-site pretreatment facility such as those of the Company.
Other Federal Laws. Company operations are also subject to the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), pursuant to which the EPA regulates over 60,000 commercially produced chemical substances, including the proper disposal of PCBs. TSCA has established a comprehensive regulatory program for PCBs, under the jurisdiction of the EPA, which oversees the storage, treatment and disposal of PCBs at the Company's facilities in Braintree and Natick, Massachusetts; Cincinnati, Ohio; and Bristol, Connecticut. Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA also regulates emissions into the air of potentially harmful substances. In its transportation operations, the Company is regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Interstate Commerce Commission, as well as by the regulatory agencies of each state in which it operates or through which its trucks pass. Health and safety standards under the Occupational Safety and Health Act are also applicable.
STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS
Pursuant to the EPA's authorization of their RCRA equivalent programs, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland and Ohio have regulatory programs governing the operations and permitting of hazardous waste facilities. Accordingly, the hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal activities of the Company's Braintree, Natick, Woburn, Bristol, Chicago, Baltimore and Cincinnati facilities are regulated by the relevant state agencies in addition to federal EPA regulation.
Some states, such as Connecticut and Massachusetts, classify as hazardous some wastes which are not regulated under RCRA. For example, Massachusetts considers PCBs and used oil as "hazardous wastes," while RCRA does not. Accordingly, the Company must comply with state requirements for handling state regulated wastes, and when necessary obtain state licenses for treating, storing, and disposing of such wastes at its facilities.
The Company believes that each of its facilities is in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of RCRA and state laws and regulations. Ten of the Company's eleven waste management facilities have been issued final licenses; the one for the Braintree facility is under appeal. The Richmond facility operates under interim status. Once issued, such licenses have maximum fixed terms of a given number of years, which differ from state to state, ranging from three years to ten years. The issuing state agency may review or modify a license at any time during its term. The Company anticipates that once a license is issued with respect to a facility, the license will be renewed at the end of its term if the facility's operations are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, there can be no assurance that regulations governing future licensing will remain static, or that the Company will be able to comply with such requirements.
The Company's wastewater treatment facilities are also subject to state and local regulation, most significantly sewer discharge regulations adopted by the municipalities which receive treated wastewater from the treatment processes. The Company's continued ability to operate its liquid waste treatment process at each such facility is dependent upon its ability to continue these sewer discharges.
The Company's facilities are regulated pursuant to state statutes, including those addressing clean water and clean air. Local sewer discharge and flammable storage requirements are applicable to certain of the Company's facilities. The Company's facilities are subject to local siting, zoning and land use restrictions. Although the Company's facilities occasionally have been cited for regulatory violations, the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all federal, state and local laws regulating its business.
ITEM 3.