ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The properties of the Company consist primarily of its 12 waste management facilities and 17 service centers, various environmental remediation equipment, and a fleet of approximately 1,000 registered pieces of transportation equipment. Most service center locations are leased, and occasionally move to other locations as
operations and space requirements change. All of the waste management facilities are owned by the Company, except (i) the Chicago hazardous waste management facility which is leased under a lease which (with extensions) expires September 2020, (ii) the Woburn, Massachusetts waste oil treatment and storage facility which is leased under a lease which (with extensions) expires February 2004, and (iii) the Virginia waste oil treatment and storage facility which is leased under a lease which (with extensions) expires February 2002. In connection with the placement of an industrial revenue bond in 1996, the Company entered into a facilities lease with the City of Kimball, Nebraska whereby the City acquired a leasehold interest in the Kimball incinerator and the Company leased the incinerator back from the City. The Company retains title to the incinerator.
Hazardous Waste Management Facilities. The Company operates hazardous waste management facilities at which it processes, treats and temporarily stores hazardous wastes for later resale, reuse or off-site treatment or disposal. Every facility that treats, stores or disposes of hazardous wastes must obtain a license from the federal EPA or an authorized state agency and must comply with certain operating requirements. See "Environmental Regulation -- Federal Regulation of Hazardous Waste" below for a description of licenses issued under the RCRA. All of the Company's hazardous waste management facilities are subject to RCRA licensing and have been issued RCRA Part B licenses, except for one interim status facility. One of the RCRA permits is under administrative appeal.
Two of the facilities described above are waste oil treatment and storage facilities which are subject to RCRA licensing because some petroleum products, such as gasoline, are considered hazardous waste under federal law or are located in a state which regulates waste oil as a hazardous waste. In order to handle a variety of waste oil and petroleum products and support its field service activities in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, the Company has obtained or applied for RCRA licenses for those two facilities.
The Company has made substantial modifications and improvements to the physical plant and treatment and process equipment in recent years at its treatment facilities. These modifications are consistent with the Company's strategy to upgrade the quality and efficiency of treatment services, to expand the range of services provided and to ensure regulatory compliance and operating efficiencies at these facilities. Major features of this program are the addition of new treatment systems, such as the CES in Baltimore, expansion of analytical testing laboratories, drum storage and processing facilities, and equipment rearrangement and replacement to improve operating efficiency.
Chicago, IL. The Chicago, Illinois facility is located on the south side of Chicago, on Lake Calumet. It provides treatment of nonhazardous and hazardous industrial wastewaters, hazardous waste fuels blending, drummed waste processing and consolidation, and transfer and repackaging of laboratory chemicals into CleanPacks. In November 1993, the Illinois EPA issued a Part B license for a ten-year term, which significantly expanded the waste handling and storage capacity of the facility.
In November, 1995, the Company acquired assets from Chemical Waste Management, Inc. ("ChemWaste") on an adjoining leased site, together with the existing improvements, in exchange for sharing the costs of dismantling an existing hazardous waste incinerator and cleaning up the adjoining site. The existing improvements on the ChemWaste site, and other improvements completed in 1995 and 1996 by the Company, have expanded the waste storage and handling capabilities at the Chicago plant. The Chicago facility also serves as the central receiving, processing and transshipment facility for the CleanEXPRESS(TM) program. Waste materials are shipped via rail and truck to Chicago from all other Company facilities. The waste materials are either treated or processed for transshipment in Chicago.
Under the sharing arrangement with ChemWaste, the Company could over a period of 15 years be required to contribute up to a maximum of $2,000,000 for dismantling and decontaminating the incinerator and other equipment and up to a maximum of $7,000,000 for studies and cleanup of the site. Any additional costs beyond those contemplated by the sharing arrangement during this time period would be borne by ChemWaste. In addition, the Company entered into a five year disposal services agreement with ChemWaste in connection with the acquisition of the assets on the adjacent site. Pursuant to the terms of the disposal services agreement, the Company has agreed to use best efforts to deliver waste materials to ChemWaste facilities for disposal subject to certain customer preferences, scheduling and other considerations.
Kimball, NE. In May 1995, the Company acquired a newly constructed hazardous waste incinerator in Kimball, Nebraska from Ecova Corporation, an affiliate of Amoco Oil Company. The Kimball facility includes a 45,000 ton-per-year fluidized bed thermal oxidation unit for maximum destruction efficiency of hazardous waste. The construction of the incinerator and its operation have received widespread support in the local community. The incinerator has a RCRA Part B license issued by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality ("NDEQ"). In December 1994, the NDEQ approved commercial operation at 75% of capacity. In October, 1996, the NDEQ issued temporary authority to operate at 99.6% of capacity. The temporary authority can remain in effect for up to 1 year. The new RCRA and air permits are expected to be issued by NDEQ in 1997.
The incinerator is located on a 600 acre site, which includes a landfill for disposal of incinerator ash. If the chemical composition of the ash meets the permit requirements, which is subject to verification before it is landfilled on-site, the ash will be classified as "delisted", meaning it will no longer be regulated as a hazardous waste under federal and state laws. Although the ash will be classified as nonhazardous, the landfill has been constructed to meet RCRA Subtitle C standards, which are the same stringent requirements as for landfills designed to handle hazardous waste.
As part of the acquisition, the Company agreed to make royalty payments to Ecova Corporation through 2004, based on the number of tons processed at the facility.
Braintree, MA. The Braintree facility is located just south of Boston. The facility is primarily engaged in drummed waste processing and consolidation, solvent recovery, transformer decommissioning, PCB storage and processing, blending of waste used as supplemental fuel by industrial furnaces, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, and incineration of small quantities of nonhazardous waste. The facility was acquired by the Company in 1985 and operates under a state Interim Hazardous Waste Facility License issued by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") in 1981. In June 1992, the DEP approved the Company's application for a final Hazardous Waste Facility License, and issued a final Part B license for a five-year term. The Town of Braintree filed an appeal to the permit which is still pending. The appeal is an administrative proceeding before the DEP, and the facility continues to operate normally pursuant to its state license and Interim Status authority under RCRA while the DEP considers the appeal. The Company is confident the review will result in confirmation of the license as granted. The authority from the federal EPA to handle PCBs is not impacted by the appeal of the Part B license.
Natick, MA. The Natick, Massachusetts facility is located just west of Boston. Its primary services are storing and repackaging CleanPacks. The facility has a state Hazardous Waste Facility License (the state equivalent of a Part B license), which was renewed in October 1994 for a five-year term. The facility is also authorized by the federal EPA to handle PCBs.
Cleveland, OH. The Cleveland, Ohio facility is located south of downtown Cleveland. It is a wastewater treatment facility that treats nonhazardous and hazardous industrial wastewaters, and serves as a transfer station for various types of containerized hazardous and nonhazardous waste. The facility is not subject to Part B licensing requirements, since its on-site wastewater treatment activities are regulated pursuant to the Clean Water Act, and therefore are exempt from RCRA.
Baltimore, MD. The Baltimore, Maryland facility is located in central Baltimore. It provides treatment of nonhazardous and hazardous industrial aqueous wastes, treatment of "lean waters" through the CES process, drummed waste processing, waste stabilization, and transfer of CleanPacks. The facility has a state Controlled Hazardous Substances permit (the state equivalent of a Part B license), which was last issued in 1992 for a three-year term. The permit also allows handling of material destined for fuels-blending and rail shipment of hazardous and nonhazardous waste. In June, 1995 the Company submitted a permit renewal application which allows operations to continue until the renewal application is approved.
Bristol, CT. In July 1992, the Company acquired Connecticut Treatment Corporation, located in Bristol, Connecticut, approximately 20 miles southwest of Hartford. It provides hazardous wastewater treatment, drummed waste processing and consolidation, and transfer of CleanPacks. This facility also provides treatment of special categories of hazardous wastewaters known as "listed" wastewaters resulting
from industrial processes such as electroplating. The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection renewed the Part B license in 1995 for a five year term.
Cincinnati, OH. In February 1993, the Company acquired Spring Grove Resource Recovery, Inc. ("Spring Grove"), located north of downtown Cincinnati, Ohio. It provides hazardous wastewater treatment, drummed waste processing and consolidation, pretreatment of waste to stabilize it before it is sent to landfills, fuels blending, and transfer of CleanPacks. The facility is also authorized to handle PCBs. The facility holds a state Hazardous Waste Facility Installation and Operation permit (RCRA Part B) which was renewed in December 1993 for a five-year term, and a federal permit under the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments to RCRA issued in December, 1996. In May 1995, the Ohio Hazardous Waste Facility Board approved the transfer of the facility hazardous waste permit from the former owner of the facility to the Company.
Waste Oil Treatment and Storage Facilities. The Company has four waste oil treatment and storage facilities: two in Massachusetts, one in Maine, and one in Virginia. The Massachusetts facilities are located in Kingston and Woburn, in the Boston area. The Kingston facility has a state recycling permit and is able to store oil collected from various activities, ranging from routine cleaning of oil storage terminals to oil spill cleanups. The facility is also used for maintenance activities and for training of employees of the Company and third-party customers. The Woburn facility is a waste oil storage and transfer facility, and received a Part B license in October 1993 for a five-year term.
The facility in South Portland, Maine is a petroleum reclamation facility that handles most of the waste oil received by the Company, which comes primarily from the Company's remediation activities. It has a municipal sewer user permit allowing the discharge of water separated from oil. The Company also owns another property on Main Street in South Portland, which has a license to store virgin oil, and it is also permitted for the temporary storage and transfer of containerized hazardous waste.
The Virginia facility is located near Richmond, and was acquired in September 1994. The facility is able to store waste oil and gasoline-contaminated hazardous wastes collected from various activities, ranging from routine cleaning of oil storage terminals to oil spill cleanups. The facility operates under RCRA interim status pending the final review of its application for a Part B license.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
While the Company's business has benefited substantially from increased governmental regulation of hazardous waste transportation, storage and disposal, the industrial waste management industry itself has become the subject of extensive and evolving regulation by federal, state and local authorities. The Company makes a continuing effort to anticipate regulatory, political and legal developments that might affect its operations, but is not always able to do so. The Company cannot predict the extent to which any environmental legislation or regulation that may be enacted or enforced in the future may affect its operations.
In late 1995, the EPA proposed to amend its hazardous waste regulations by establishing constituent-specific exit levels for low-risk solid wastes that are designated as hazardous because they are listed, or have been mixed with, derived from, or contain listed hazardous wastes. Under the proposal, generators of listed hazardous wastes that meet the self-implementing exit levels would no longer be subject to the hazardous waste management system under Subtitle C of RCRA as listed hazardous wastes. The proposed rulemaking, referred to as the Hazardous Waste Identification Rule ("HWIR"), establishes a risk-based "floor" to hazardous waste listings that will encourage pollution prevention, waste minimization, and the development of innovative waste treatment technologies. If adopted, the HWIR may adversely impact the Company's incinerator in Kimball, since many wastes which are currently required to be managed as a hazardous waste may no longer require incineration at a RCRA incineration unit such as Kimball. The proposed regulation is still under review by the U.S. EPA.
The Company is required to obtain federal, state and local licenses or approvals for each of its hazardous waste facilities. Such licenses are difficult to obtain and, in many instances, extensive studies, tests, and public hearings are required before the approvals can be issued. The Company has acquired all operating licenses and approvals now required for the current operation of its business and has applied for or is in the process of
applying for all licenses and approvals needed in connection with continued operation and planned expansion or modifications of its operations.
Federal Regulation of Hazardous Waste
The most significant federal environmental laws affecting the Company are RCRA, the Superfund Act and the Clean Water Act.
RCRA. RCRA is the principal federal statute governing hazardous waste generation, treatment, transportation, storage and disposal. Pursuant to RCRA, the EPA has established a comprehensive, "cradle-to-grave" system for the management of a wide range of materials identified as hazardous waste. States, such as Massachusetts, Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland, Ohio and Nebraska, that have adopted hazardous waste management programs with standards at least as stringent as those promulgated by the EPA, have been authorized by the EPA to administer their facility permitting programs in lieu of the EPA's program.
Every facility that treats, stores or disposes of hazardous waste must obtain a RCRA license from the EPA or an authorized state agency and must comply with certain operating requirements. Under RCRA, hazardous waste management facilities in existence on November 19, 1980 were required to submit a preliminary license application to the EPA, the so-called Part A Application. By virtue of this filing, a facility obtained Interim Status, allowing it to operate until licensing proceedings are instituted pursuant to more comprehensive and exacting regulations (the Part B licensing process). Interim Status facilities may continue to operate pursuant to the Part A Application until their Part B licensing process is concluded. Of the Company's 12 waste management facilities, nine are subject to RCRA licensing; of the nine, only the Virginia waste oil facility operates under interim status. The other eight have been issued Part B licenses, one of which is under appeal.
RCRA requires that Part B licenses contain provisions for required on-site study and cleanup activities, known as "corrective action," including detailed compliance schedules and provisions for assurance of financial responsibility. The EPA has developed a system for assessing the relative environmental cleanup priority of RCRA facilities, called the National Corrective Action Prioritization System, with a High, Medium or Low ranking for each facility. Although several facilities of its competitors have been assessed a High cleanup priority, none of the Company's RCRA facilities have been assessed as a High priority.
The Company has begun RCRA corrective action investigations at its Part B licensed facilities in Braintree, Natick, Bristol, Chicago, and Woburn. The Company is also involved in site studies at its non-RCRA facilities in Cleveland, Ohio; Kingston, Massachusetts; and on Main Street in South Portland, Maine. The Company spent approximately $596,000 on corrective action at the foregoing facilities in 1996.
The Company is also involved in a RCRA corrective action investigation at a site in Chester, Pennsylvania owned by PECO Energy Company ("PECO"). The site consists of approximately 30 acres which PECO had leased to various companies over the years. In 1989, the Company acquired by merger a public company named ChemClear Inc., which operated a hazardous waste treatment facility on approximately eight acres of the Chester site leased from PECO. The Company ceased operations at the Chester site, decontaminated the plant and equipment, engaged an independent engineer to certify closure, and obtained final approval from the Pennsylvania regulatory authorities, certifying final closure of the facility. In 1993, the EPA ordered PECO to perform a RCRA corrective action investigation at the Chester site. PECO asked the Company to participate in the site studies, and in October 1994, the Company agreed to be responsible for seventy-five percent of the cost of these studies, which is estimated to be in the range of $1,000,000 to $2,000,000, by, among other things, performing field service work and analytical services required to complete the site studies and providing other environmental services to PECO at discounted rates.
While the final scopes of the work to be performed at these facilities have not yet been agreed upon, the Company believes, based upon information known to date about the nature and extent of contamination at these sites, that such costs will not have a material effect on its results of operations or its financial position, and that it will be able to finance from operating revenues any additional corrective action required at its
facilities. Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
The Bristol, Connecticut and Cincinnati, Ohio facilities were acquired from a subsidiary of Southdown, Inc. Southdown Inc. has agreed to indemnify the Company against any costs incurred or liability arising from contamination on-site, including the cost of corrective action, or waste disposed of off-site, including any liability under the Superfund Act, at those facilities.
The Superfund Act. The Superfund Act provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA to releases of hazardous substances into the environment, and authorizes the government to respond to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or to order persons responsible for any such release to perform any necessary cleanup. The statute assigns joint and several liability for these responses and other related costs, including the cost of damage to natural resources, to the parties involved in the generation, transportation and disposal of such hazardous substances. Under the statute, the Company may be deemed liable as a generator or transporter of a hazardous substance which is released into the environment, or as the owner or operator of a facility from which there is a release of a hazardous substance into the environment. See also "Business -- Legal Proceedings."
Clean Water Act. This legislation prohibits discharges to the waters of the United States without governmental authorization. The EPA has promulgated "pretreatment" regulations under the Clean Water Act, which establish pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants into publicly owned treatment works. In the course of its treatment process, the Company's wastewater treatment facilities generate waste water which they discharge to publicly owned treatment works pursuant to permits issued by the appropriate governmental authority. The Clean Water Act also serves to create business opportunities for the Company in that it may prevent industrial users from discharging their untreated wastewaters to the sewer. If these industries cannot meet their discharge specifications, then they may utilize the services of an off-site pretreatment facility such as those of the Company.
Other Federal Laws. Company operations are also subject to the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), pursuant to which the EPA regulates over 60,000 commercially produced chemical substances, including the proper disposal of PCBs. TSCA has established a comprehensive regulatory program for PCBs, under the jurisdiction of the EPA, which oversees the storage, treatment and disposal of PCBs at the Company's facilities in Braintree and Natick, Massachusetts; Cincinnati, Ohio; and Bristol, Connecticut. Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA also regulates emissions into the air of potentially harmful substances. In its transportation operations, the Company is regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration, and the U.S. Coast Guard, as well as by the regulatory agencies of each state in which it operates or through which its trucks pass. Health and safety standards under the Occupational Safety and Health Act are also applicable.
STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS
Pursuant to the EPA's authorization of their RCRA equivalent programs, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland, Ohio, and Nebraska have regulatory programs governing the operations and permitting of hazardous waste facilities. Accordingly, the hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal activities of the Company's Braintree, Natick, Woburn, Bristol, Chicago, Baltimore, Cincinnati, and Kimball facilities are regulated by the relevant state agencies in addition to federal EPA regulation.
Some states, such as Connecticut and Massachusetts, classify as hazardous some wastes which are not regulated under RCRA. For example, Massachusetts considers PCBs and used oil as "hazardous wastes," while RCRA does not. Accordingly, the Company must comply with state requirements for handling state regulated wastes, and when necessary obtain state licenses for treating, storing, and disposing of such wastes at its facilities.
The Company believes that each of its facilities is in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of RCRA and state laws and regulations. Eleven of the Company's twelve waste management facilities have been issued final licenses; the one for the Braintree facility is under appeal. The Richmond
facility operates under interim status. Once issued, such licenses have maximum fixed terms of a given number of years, which differ from state to state, ranging from three years to ten years. The issuing state agency may review or modify a license at any time during its term. The Company anticipates that once a license is issued with respect to a facility, the license will be renewed at the end of its term if the facility's operations are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, there can be no assurance that regulations governing future licensing will remain static, or that the Company will be able to comply with such requirements.
The Company's wastewater treatment facilities are also subject to state and local regulation, most significantly sewer discharge regulations adopted by the municipalities which receive treated wastewater from the treatment processes. The Company's continued ability to operate its liquid waste treatment process at each such facility is dependent upon its ability to continue these sewer discharges.
The Company's facilities are regulated pursuant to state statutes, including those addressing clean water and clean air. Local sewer discharge and flammable storage requirements are applicable to certain of the Company's facilities. The Company's facilities are subject to local siting, zoning and land use restrictions. Although the Company's facilities occasionally have been cited for regulatory violations, the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all federal, state and local laws regulating its business.
ITEM 3.