Item 2. PROPERTIES
Oil and Gas Properties
Reserves
The estimated reserve amounts and future net revenues were determined by outside consulting petroleum engineers. The reserve tables presented below show total proved reserves and changes in proved reserves owned by Columbus for the three years ended November 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
Proved Developed Producing Reserves
As of November 30, 1998, Columbus has approximately 621,000 barrels of proved developed producing oil and condensate in the United States most of which are attributable to primary recovery operations. Producing oil properties in North Dakota, Montana and Texas account for over 97%, and Texas alone 62%, of the reserves in the proved developed producing category.
The gas producing properties owned by Columbus are located in Texas, North Dakota, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Montana and contain 14.4 billion cubic feet of proved developed producing gas reserves. Texas properties account for 99% of these reserves.
The reserves in this category can be materially affected positively or negatively by either currently prevailing or future prices because they determine the economic lives of the producing wells.
Proved Developed Non-Producing Reserves
The reserves in this category are located in the states of Texas, Louisiana, Montana and North Dakota. Generally, these are reserves behind the casing in existing wells with recompletion required before commencement of production or else are in wells being completed and/or completed but awaiting pipeline connections at year end.
Columbus' non-producing reserves equal 141,000 barrels of oil, or 15% of its total proved oil reserves, and 6.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or 28% of its total proved natural gas reserves.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Columbus' proved undeveloped reserves were approximately 198,000 barrels and 1.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas. Almost all of the oil reserves in this category are in Montana, North Dakota and Texas. All of the proved undeveloped gas reserves are attributable to undrilled locations offsetting production in Webb, Zapata, Harris and Jim Hogg Counties, Texas, Montana and North Dakota.
These reserves are expected to either be developed during 1999 or in the future when oil prices again stabilize at levels which will yield a satisfactory rate of return on investment when developed. Four locations in the Williston Basin which had been carried for several years with proved undeveloped oil reserves while awaiting adequate prices which would yield an acceptable rate of return on investment when drilled were dropped at fiscal year end due to low crude prices. This accounted for 211,000 barrels of the reduction in proved oil reserves from fiscal 1997 to fiscal 1998.
Standardized Measure
The schedule of Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows (the "Standardized Measure") is presented below pursuant to the disclosure requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities" (SFAS- 69) for such information. Future cash flows are calculated using year-end oil and gas prices and operating expenses, and are discounted using a 10% discount factor.
STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO ESTIMATED PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES (thousands of dollars)
1998 1997 1996 -------- -------- -------- Future oil and gas revenues ................. $ 53,271 $ 79,381 $ 98,555 Future cost: Production cost ........................... (13,688) (21,856) (25,620) Development cost .......................... (2,638) (5,401) (4,264) Future income taxes ......................... (6,325) (11,531) (14,198) -------- -------- -------- Future net cash flows ....................... 30,620 40,593 54,473 Discount at 10% ............................. (8,691) (10,422) (16,313) -------- -------- -------- Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows ................................ $ 21,929 $ 30,171 $ 38,160 ======== ======== ========
CHANGE IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS FROM ESTIMATED PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1998 (thousands of dollars)
1998 1997 1996 -------- -------- -------- Balance, beginning of year .................. $ 30,171 $ 38,160 $ 21,392
Sale of oil and gas net of production costs (7,397) (10,708) (7,556) Net changes in prices and production costs (12,034) (10,502) 19,446 Purchase of reserves ...................... 310 -- 5,158 Sale of reserves .......................... -- (1,320) (229) Extensions, discoveries and other additions 6,896 9,660 8,309 Revisions to previous estimates ........... (3,406) (710) (4,905) Previously estimated development costs incurred during the period .............. 586 1,089 729 Changes in development costs .............. 2,066 229 570 Accretion of discount ..................... 3,730 4,653 2,416 Other ..................................... (2,066) (1,620) (1,571) Change in future income taxes ............. 3,073 1,240 (5,599) -------- -------- -------- Net increase (decrease) ..................... (8,242) (7,989) 16,768 -------- -------- -------- Balance, end of year ........................ $ 21,929 $ 30,171 $ 38,160 ======== ======== ========
The standardized measure is intended to provide a standard of comparable measurement of the Company's estimated proved oil and gas reserves based on economic and operating conditions existing as of November 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996. Pursuant to SFAS-69, the future oil and gas revenues are calculated by applying to the proved oil and gas reserves the oil and gas prices at November 30 of each year relating to such reserves. Future price changes are considered only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end. Production and development costs are based upon costs at each year end. Future income taxes are computed by applying statutory tax rates as of year end with recognition of tax basis, net operating loss carryforwards, depletion carryforwards, and investment tax credit carryforwards as of that date and relating to the proved properties. Discounted amounts are based on a 10% annual discount rate. Changes in the demand for oil and gas, price changes and other factors make such estimates inherently imprecise and subject to revision.
Discounted future net cash flows before income taxes for reserves were $25,986,000 in 1998, $37,301,000 in 1997, and $46,530,000 in 1996. As required by SFAS-69, the future tax computation appearing in the above table does not consider the Company's annual interest expenses and general and administrative expenses nor future expenditures for intangible drilling costs. Because of these factors, the tax provisions are not truly representative of the expected lower future tax expense to the Company so long as it remains an active operating company.
The reserve and standardized measure tables prescribed by the SEC and presented above are prepared on the basis of a weighted average price for all properties as of each year end. At November 30, 1998 the crude oil price (including natural gas liquids) was $11.29 per barrel and the natural gas price was $1.89 per thousand cubic feet. The SEC requires that this computation utilize those year end prices and expenses which are then held constant, except for contractual escalations, over the life of the property.
The calculation of discounted future cash flows can be materially affected by being compelled to use only those prices that happen to be effective on November 30 each year (Columbus' fiscal year end) because of price volatility. Mandatory usage of prices which happen to prevail on a single date can have an inordinate influence on year-end reserves as well as on the resulting year to year change that a company reports for discounted future net cash flows determined using this standardized measure calculation. Management has long advocated using a weighted average of prices actually received throughout the year to make this standardized measure calculation less susceptible to the impact of wide monthly fluctuations in prices which have occurred so frequently in recent years. Even using weighted average annual prices still may or may not be very indicative of future cash flows because average prices may vary widely in future fiscal years.
Both 1998 and 1997 fiscal years are good examples of why an average price would be preferable in management's opinion since year end prices for natural gas and crude oil were significantly different from the average annual prices received.
Outside Consultant's Report
An outside consulting firm, Reed Ferrill & Associates, was retained for the purpose of preparing a report covering the reserves of the Company's properties and a future production forecast using constant prices as of November 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996. The reports on the reserves of the properties located in the Berry Cox field in Texas were prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc., another outside consulting firm. These reports are prepared each year as required by the Company's bank line of credit.
Production
Columbus' net U.S. oil and gas production for each of the past three fiscal years is shown on the following table:
Fiscal Year --------------------------- 1998 1997 1996 -------- ------- ------- Oil-barrels 221,000 249,000 246,000 Gas-Mmcf 3,499 3,370 2,686
During the fiscal year 1998, Columbus filed Form EIA23 with the Energy Information Agency which required disclosure of oil and natural gas reserve data for wells operated by Columbus. The reserve data reported was for calendar year 1997. This data was reported on a gross operated basis inclusive of royalty interest and, therefore, does not compare with Columbus' net reserves reported for 1997.
Average price and cost per unit of production for the past three fiscal years are as follows:
Fiscal Year -------------------------- 1998 1997 1996 ------- ------- ------- Average sales price: per barrel of oil ...... $13.22 $19.62 $19.42 per Mcf of gas ......... $ 2.18 $ 2.65 $ 2.15 Average production cost per equivalent barrel ....... $ 4.00 $ 3.83 $ 4.35
Natural gas converted to oil at the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil. Production costs for fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996 include production taxes.
Developed Properties
A summary of the gross and net interest in producing wells and gross and net interest in producing acres is shown in the following table:
November 30, 1998 Gross Net - ----------------- ---------------- -------------- Oil Gas Oil Gas --- --- --- --- Wells 81 161 21 20
Acres 35,520 10,493
Undeveloped Properties
The following table sets forth the Company's ownership in undeveloped properties:
November 30, 1998 Gross Acres Net Acres - ----------------- ----------- --------- Louisiana 23,376 2,271 Montana 12,980 7,706 New Mexico 840 630 North Dakota 1,790 395 Texas 6,792 3,256 ------ ------ Total Undeveloped Properties 45,778 14,258 ====== ======
Drilling Activities
The Company engages in exploratory and development drilling in association with third parties, typically other oil companies. Actual drilling operations are not conducted by the Company and are usually carried out by third party drilling contractors, but the Company may act as operator of the projects. The following table gives information regarding the Company's drilling activity in its last three fiscal years.
Current Activities
During fiscal 1998, management shifted Columbus' emphasis and capital budget almost entirely to the exploration for, and development of, natural gas reserves. However, early in fiscal 1998 the Company was involved in completing a well drilled in fiscal 1997, a successful 12,000-foot Red River formation oil discovery in the Montana portion of the Williston Basin. Since the low crude oil prices existing at the beginning of fiscal 1998 only got worse, Columbus also limited its participation in drilling activities for oil to only when required to prevent drainage. The 1998 budget formulated in November 1997 included some 3-D seismic plus exploration and development drilling on existing leasehold blocks in the Williston Basin which was scrapped. Those funds were diverted to an exploration program for natural gas reserves along the Texas Gulf Coast from east of Houston to northwest of Corpus Christi. The 1998 budget also provided for continued natural gas development drilling south of Laredo, Texas where Columbus, or its former parent, has been involved for over 25 years. Although natural gas prices weakened somewhat in latter fiscal 1998, they remained sufficiently high for the capital expenditure budget of approximately $6.5 million to be completed. Actual cash expended during the 12 months exceeded $7.1 million, but this amount also included payment of significant accrued costs associated with wells in progress as the prior year came to a close. The very successful wildcat program resulted in three natural gas discoveries out of five prospects drilled in this onshore Gulf Coast of Texas exploratory program which has enhanced fiscal 1999's outlook for expanding natural gas reserves.
The more significant recent activities appear below and have been segregated into Columbus' primary areas of operations:
South Texas - Laredo Area - -------------------------
This continues to be the most important area for well operations since the Company serves as operator of over 100 natural gas wells in various fields that extend from the southern city limits of Laredo to the B. R. Cox field in Jim Hogg, County approximately 80 miles to the south. In this area Columbus owns working interests ranging from 1% to 53% in wells which it operates and less than 10% in the relatively few wells where it does not.
For the past few years, Columbus has almost continuously kept at least one rig drilling infill, extension, and new fault block locations. These were identified by a 3-D seismic program which was conducted and interpreted in 1994-95. During 1998, drilling was halted on two occasions after some wells did not find the expected new fault block reservoirs and were completed as additional wells in existing producing fault blocks. Also, three locations proved to be unsuccessful. As a consequence, during 1998 only seven (0.41 net) successful natural gas wells were completed while three (0.62 net) dry holes were drilled which compares with participation in 18 gross wells in 1997 and 12 gross wells in 1996.
In the B. R. Cox field, Columbus attempted one recompletion effort of a gas zone behind pipe in one of the two inactive gas wells in this field. This workover had been postponed pending a large working interest owner's agreement to advance their share of the funds or else suffer non-consent penalties. That owner finally agreed to participate, but after the new zone flowed gas for a short period, the casing collapsed in this old wellbore. None of the working interest owners were willing to spend the funds required to remedy the problem so the well is a candidate for farmout, sale, or abandonment. Two other proposed recompletions in new zones behind pipe or to drill the one remaining undeveloped location in this field await approval by other working interest owners. During latter 1997, the Company sold a producing property from this field and is currently considering selling the balance of its interests in existing wells and leaseholds.
Sralla Road Field Area - Harris County, Texas - ---------------------------------------------
This upper Gulf Coast area is located east of Houston and has been Columbus' primary source of field level cash flow throughout the decade of the 1990's. During fiscal 1998, drilling operations continued to be successful as Columbus, as operator, developed additional Jackson Sand crude oil and natural gas reserves in four separate wells. Two oil development wells were drilled in the field's north end in the oil leg of the reservoir in order to prevent offset drainage and both wells were completed as flowing high gas/oil ratio wells. The Company owns 67% and 65% working interests therein and a similar interest in the Fig Orchard #1 gas well which was recompleted as a sidetracked gas producer after the casing had collapsed in the original wellbore. The fourth well (19.5% WI) was an exploratory well on the south end which was projected to extend the gas cap of this Jackson Sand reservoir by about one and one-half miles but the wellbore was on the other side of an unknown cross fault separating it from the gas cap. It found an oil discovery instead as the Jones #1 tested 240 barrels of oil per day flowing through an 8/64th choke and has remained shut-in pending completion of a gas gathering system since no gas flaring is allowed. The installation of a pipeline has proved a challenge since the Jones #1 is located in an area with considerable residential development made up of both primary homes and second homes near the San Jacinto River. Although Columbus operates this well, the pipeline construction is being pursued by the largest working interest owner in the Jones #1 who also owns most of the acreage and wells nearby. Obtaining the permits necessary to install the gathering system has proved very frustrating but is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 1999.
About 20 miles east of the Sralla Road field, the Company participated in July 1997 in a successful exploratory discovery in the Frio 16 Sand near the famous old Anahuac field in Chambers County, Texas. The Syphrett Heirs #1 initially tested for 4.6 million cubic feet per day and has sold approximately 100 million cubic feet per month throughout fiscal 1998 and has been one of Columbus' most prolific producers. The Company originally owned a 27.5% working interest as of the end of fiscal 1997, but this was subsequently reduced by "back-ins" to an approximate 26% working interest.
The Company owned a similar interest in approximately 600 acres of leaseholds to the south of that discovery. Available seismic indicated that there were two separate drillable prospects on this acreage which probably needed to be tested before leases expired. These two seismic features are separated by a fault with the largest being located on the downthrown side which was chosen as the initial location for an exploratory test. The Quinn #1 was drilled to the Frio 15 Sand at about 9,000 feet and a very thick sand section was encountered but contained water with a slight show of natural gas and a second test well is not planned at present.
Williston Basin Area - --------------------
Prevailing low crude oil prices throughout fiscal 1998 brought potential new activity in this area of operations to a halt. Unfortunately, a drilling program had already been commenced during fiscal 1997 and had mostly been completed prior to the sharp decline in crude oil prices. The 1997 3-D seismic program on the southern portion of this block of Montana acreage indicated Red River formation structures were present, but subsequent 3-D seismic in 1998 found no drillable deep structures. During the fall of 1997, one of those Red River structures was tested and the 90%-owned McCabe Farms #1-4 well was successfully completed in December 1997. This 12,000-foot well pumped initially at a rate of 86 barrels of oil per day with a like amount of water which was disappointing since such a high water cut had not been indicated on either the logs or in a drillstem test. Subsequently, a second exploratory well tested a Tyler Sand zone at about 7,000 feet which was a dry hole because the indicated channel on 3-D seismic was filled with reworked shale and lime with only limited sand. No further tests of this channel are planned. There was another test of the Tyler Sand in North Dakota when a behind pipe zone was perforated in a cased wellbore of a Mission Canyon producer which was ready for abandonment. It flowed nitrogen at a rate in excess of 2 million cubic feet per day. Unfortunately, there is no current market for a prolific nitrogen well having less than 10% methane and it will most likely be abandoned during 1999. Also, continued low crude oil prices resulted in over half of the operated wells in the Williston Basin being rendered uneconomic and have either been shut down or else are being operated only a few days of each month.
Goudeau Prospect - Avoyelles and St. Landry Parishes, Louisiana - ---------------------------------------------------------------
This deep geo-pressured Austin Chalk prospect proved to be a very disappointing area for the industry in general and for Columbus in particular even though it only participated in one re- entry well. The Morrow #23-1H was a 15,000-foot wellbore which had been cased and abandoned several years ago by an unrelated operator when an attempted completion in a deeper horizon failed. Belco Oil & Gas, as operator of the prospect and the major interest owner, agreed to drill updip and downdip laterals of about 4,000 feet each in this cased wellbore at no expense to Columbus and its co-venturers who had originated this prospect area. However, Belco apparently became disenchanted after completion of an updip lateral only. When it announced it would move on to another well and not finish its obligation for a downdip lateral for Columbus and co- venturers, there were strong exceptions taken. Following hasty negotiations, Columbus et al took over the wellbore and Belco withdrew altogether from the 2,560 acre unit. What ensued thereafter proved to be expensive as numerous problems were encountered while drilling the downdip lateral. These have been previously reported and need not be recounted here. Therefore, instead of having a relatively small working interest and limited cost exposure in this exploration well, Columbus et al bore the entire expensive undertaking which bordered on a disaster because of attempted blowouts, lost circulation, and mechanical problems with the drilling equipment. These became so intense that the venturers settled for only a 1,200-foot downdip lateral. The initial rate of produced fluid was extremely high from this short lateral at over 66 barrels per hour but unfortunately only 21% was oil initially and during its subsequent 14 months of production, this geo-pressured zone's flow rate has declined slowly to only 11 barrels of oil per day as the percentage water cut steadily increased. At current prices, the well is marginally economic but had the cut been reversed, payout would probably have already been achieved. Any further attempt to drill a second downdip lateral, or to open up the existing updip lateral which is below bridge plugs and a whip stock, cannot presently be justified based on current prices. Also, Columbus has no plans for additional participation in drilling deep geo-pressured Austin Chalk wells in Louisiana so this geologic province has been eliminated as a potential new core area.
El Squared Prospect - Bee County, Texas - ---------------------------------------
This prospect area has been described in earlier 1998 quarterly reports and news releases as one of the most exciting areas for potential reserve increases that has been added as a new Columbus operational area since the Sralla Road discovery east of Houston in 1990. At present this prospect's leaseholds have grown to approximately 5,500 acres in size and prior to the Company becoming involved were fully covered with a 3-D seismic program. Columbus currently owns a 55% working interest (42% NRI) while three of its regular drilling associates own 20% working interests and the oil company which originated the prospect owns the remaining 25%. After acquiring participation, Columbus had the seismic data processed and interpreted by an outside expert. Ownership rights in the initial 4,000-acre block acquired were limited by depth to formations below 7,000 feet which in this immediate area primarily consists of several potentially productive gas sands in the Wilcox formation from 9,000 feet to 17,000 feet. All depths are available in the additionally acquired acreage.
The initial interpretation of the 3-D seismic indicated there were several significant "bright spots" as well as numerous separate fault blocks that included both antithetic (up-to-the-coast) faults as well as normal down-to-the-coast faults at various depths. Based on information in the general area available from prior drilling as well as from producing fields nearby, there are several different zones of the Wilcox formation with local names for the sand intervals that are considered prospective in this leasehold block. In the upper Wilcox there are two or three Slick Sands beginning at depths of about 9,500 feet, two or more Luling Sands beginning at about 10,200 feet, a Mackhank Sand beginning around 11,300 feet, at least two Massive Sands beginning around 12,000 feet, and three or more Reagan Sands below 14,000 feet. Available information also indicates that all of these reservoirs should be geo-pressured with bottom hole pressures ranging from around 6,000 psi at the Slick Sand level to over 13,000 psi in the deeper Reagan Sands. This indicates there can be significant reserves of natural gas with porosities of 15% to 22% and a cut-off at 10%. Initial seismic interpretation also indicated that there are probably several individual fault blocks that range in size from small in surface area (100 acres or less) up to several hundred acres. More important is that these Wilcox Sands appear to have gross thicknesses of 40 feet to 180 feet so with the reservoirs geo-pressured, significant accumulations of natural gas reserves in a successful well can occur even if a fault block for a particular reservoir might be small. This in effect defines this prospective area as one with vertical reserves potential rather than one with a large geographic areal extent such as the Hugoton field. This area may still require several wells fairly closely spaced on the surface in order to exploit the reserves at the different levels in their most structurally favorable positions.
The initial wellsite for the Long #1 was selected using 3-D seismic such that the vertical wellbore would penetrate the upper Slick Sand immediately underneath a sealing up-to-the-coast fault and place the Slick reservoirs near the apex of their structure. While the deeper Luling Sand zones were expected to be prospective even though further down on structure, they hopefully would be found above their gas-water contacts. If this were not the outcome, a second or even a third wellbore might be required to penetrate all Luling Sands sufficiently high on structure. In the first well, the company who created the prospect was carried to total depth for a 25% working interest only in the initial test well and participated in the completion operation expenses.
Columbus owns a 55% working interest (42% NRI) in the Long #1. It proved to be a successful natural gas discovery and was completed in 38 feet of perforations in two separate Slick Sand intervals which had gross thicknesses of 46 and 37 feet, respectively, between the depths of 9,704 and 9,835 feet. There was also a third Slick Sand encountered in the Long #1 which had about 180 feet of gross interval. It tested gas for a few hours at the rate of approximately 750 thousand cubic feet per day but also produced formation water and lost circulation drilling mud from 40 feet of perforations in the cased hole which were left open underneath a bridge plug to be produced later. Only the two upper Slick zones were completed since electric logs indicated that the Luling "A" and "B" Sands had fairly high water saturations, would probably be borderline gas productive zones, and should be completed in another wellbore structurally higher. The Long #1 was placed on production in early October and has sold about 60 million cubic feet per month along with six to eight barrels of condensate per million cubic feet. Initially the Long #1 also produced formation salt water at over 80 barrels per day but this rate declined fairly rapidly and is currently about 25 barrels per day. Initial estimates of reserves for all of the Long #1 Slick Sands producing as well as non-producing under the bridge plug approximated eight billion cubic feet. With Columbus' net revenue interest of about 42%, this was an extremely important addition to its reserves as well as future cash flow.
Unfortunately, Wilcox Sands are known to have swelling clays that are very sensitive to contact with water. Accordingly, fracture stimulation was initially deferred for the Long #1 but a treatment is now being formulated and should be undertaken in the very near future when a portion of the tubing string must be replaced because of corrosion. Evidence of the severity of the clay problem in this area could be more carefully examined in the second well, the Long #2, because it did not have as much lost circulation problems. Management is developing a program which will help overcome future severe wellbore damage created while drilling through the sands or by subsequently allowing non- treated fluids to come into contact with the producing sands. The latter problem was observed recently in the Long #1 whereby merely shutting-in for treatment for corrosion in the tubing production string actually reduced the well's flow rate from approximately 2 million down to 1.7 million cubic feet per day. Management has recently determined that even though this gas contains only 4% carbon dioxide it appears that when this amount is combined with the produced water that corrosion is occurring and must be addressed in both wells as well as in future wells. By proper advance planning, these types of problems can be reduced or overcome so there appear to be sizable reserves to be established with appropriate safeguards and completion techniques. Although these wells might be completed naturally with no fracture stimulation, it will become a necessity at some point to facilitate recovery of sizable reserves in a more reasonable period of time. An example is the postponed fracture stimulation during original completion of the Long #1 which should now be undertaken in order to open the undamaged reservoir to the wellbore. During the next few weeks, a fairly limited stimulation which will probably use condensate as the frac carrying fluid is proposed for this well and is expected to create a significant improvement in its daily productive capability. Assuming this initial treatment desatment design proves satisfactory, it will be employed in future completions.ign proves satisfactory, it will be employed in future completions.
At the end of 1998, the Long #2 had been drilled to a total depth of 11,000 feet and had been cased with 7" production casing in anticipation that a dual completion could be accomplished in the Slick and Luling Sand intervals. This was based primarily on log analysis of each of the sands using the known values for the Slick Sand formation water that was actually being produced in the Long #1. This also assumed that the formation water in the third Slick Sand, the Luling "A" Sand, and the Luling "B" Sand would have similar characteristics. Furthermore, there was a wireline formation test run in the basal Luling "B" interval which had fairly low resistivity on the logs yet recovered some gas and water which was relatively fresh and interpreted as mud filtrate water. There were significant indications of mud invasion into each of the sand intervals and water from the wireline formation tester did not remotely resemble more heavily salt saturated water from the Slick being produced only 700 feet away. Using the resistivity of produced water in the calculations for gas saturation in each of the main sand zones in the three prospective intervals, the logs indicated that there was net gas pay in the wellbore which probably exceeded 140 feet. With the known geo-pressured conditions present based on results from wireline pressure tests, the reserve potential of this well appeared to be fairly sizable. Because this potential addition to natural gas reserves appeared so significant, management felt compelled to make a press release that would at least put shareholders on notice of such a possibility even though the well had not yet been perforated or tested in any of the zones at that point in time.
Insofar as the Long #2's third Slick Sand was concerned, it had produced gas in the Long #1 previously and there was a wireline formation test which yielded gas and a lesser amount of fresh mud filtrate water. Also, this sand was about 140 feet structurally higher than the first well so management was fairly confident as to its probable gas productivity. In the instance of the two Luling Sands, they were not penetrated at their maximum structural position immediately beneath the up-to-the-coast sealing fault in order that at least some of the third Slick Sand would be present in the wellbore. These two Luling zones were expected to be at least 100 feet higher structurally than in the Long #1 and it wasassumed this amount would yield a sufficiently high structural position for a water-free completion in those two sands. Management felt that sacrificing an additional 150 feet of available structure would not prevent them from being productive and it was important to get a dual zone gas completion at the Long #2 location.
As so often occurs in the exploration phase of this business, results obtained are not always what are anticipated using analogous information as a guideline with which to formulate an opinion. For example, the basal ten feet of the Luling "B" was interpreted on the logs as having low resistivity and was on the borderline of indicated gas/water contact, but a wireline formation test did yield some gas and mud filtrate water. It subsequently gave up water after perforating with no show of gas and surprisingly the produced water from this basal zone was significantly less saturated with sodium chlorides than the produced water from the Long #1 Slick Sand interval. Assuming this water was a representative sample of Luling water, it significantly changed all of the gas saturation calculations that had been made for both of those zones. Presumably the third Slick Sand calculations should not be affected. Using this new resistivity, the basal 10 to 15 feet of the Luling "B" calculated high water saturation but the remainder would be expected to produce gas along with formation water. Complicating such calculations is the clay content of these sands which tends to hold immobile water. Several feet which calculated as gas pay were cement squeezed also in order that an attempt to separately test the upper portion of the Luling "B" could be undertaken.
Obviously, management has been sorely disappointed with the Luling results but has not been able to obtain a satisfactory explanation from experts in the area as to how or why the salt saturations in the water from the Slick and Luling zones can be so vastly different. Had management known such to be the case, it would have entirely changed proposed completion procedures in the various intervals with a more selective perforating program. The problem was further exacerbated by the fact that apparently the primary cement job behind the 7" casing is fairly poor according to a cement bond log. This limited the ability to treat individual zones for formation damage which occurred during drilling operations. Without treatment there can be no certainty that any gas present in the sands will be produced along with the water recovered from the Luling "B" during swabbing operations. Since the Luling "A" Sand appears to have been similarly affected by drilling fluids and presumably contains the same water characteristics found below, management decided to temporarily leave it untested in this wellbore and proceed with a block squeeze cement program for a third Slick Sand single zone completion.
As of early February, 1999 the Long #2 had been successfully completed in 30 feet of perforations in the 120 foot lower Slick Sand zone from a depth of 9,906 to 9,936 feet which were fracture stimulated with 25,000 pounds of frac sand using condensate as the carrying fluid. During initial cleanup, the well flowed natural gas through a 11/64th inch choke at the rate of 1,781,000 cubic feet per day along with frac condensate and water at a daily rate of 66 barrels and six barrels respectively. Flowing tubing pressure was 3247 psi. The well will be flowed on a temporary basis at this lower rate pending the construction of a gathering line of larger diameter pipe.
It now appears evident that in order for these Luling Sands to be found productive of natural gas and water free, they must be penetrated at the apex of the structure which would place them as much as 150 feet structurally higher than in the present Long #2 wellbore. While it is disappointing not to be able to use this larger diameter casing for a dual completion, this will prove helpful for drilling to the deeper and higher pressured formations in future. We will be able to use large diameter drilling tools and cross the sealing fault at the best possible structural position for either the Mackhank or the Massive Sands of the middle Wilcox. There is also an alternative that a window can be cut and a wellbore drilled directionally to the structural apex of the Luling from this existing cased wellbore at a later date when the Slick reservoir has been depleted.
Management has not wavered in its belief that this Prospect Area holds significant potential for rapidly growing the Company's natural gas reserves. However, it has become painfully evident from its experience with the first two wells that further attempts to achieve dual completions in this type of high structural relief environment is neither realistically practical nor truly a money saving approach for rapid extraction of reserves. Each prospective reservoir in every fault block apparently must be drilled at the optimum structural position. Also, a drilling and completion program must be designed which will minimize the damage to the clays contained in these sands. It is extremely frustrating to have to accept producing wellbores in the range of 10 billion cubic feet of reserves instead of multiple sand completions with 25 billion cubic feet of reserves. Management must adopt this general concept as a wellsite location guideline for most wellbores in this area in future.
Heidi Prospect - Jim Wells County, Texas - ----------------------------------------
This Vicksburg formation gas prospect near Alice, Texas is fairly shallow at 5,800 feet deep with three potentially productive sand zones which are known locally as the Bierstadt, the Alice and the Stillwell sand in descending order beginning at about 5,100 feet. In the initial discovery well, the latter sand was tight with minimal shows while both the Alice and Bierstadt had excellent gas shows in well developed sands but were extremely close to gas-water contacts. Only the Bierstadt interval could be completed as a water free natural gas discovery well and has been flowing for several months at about 300,000 cubic feet per day. Based on 3-D seismic conducted by another company which became available in exchange for permission to shoot across these leaseholds, it appeared that at least one or more well sites could be selected that could be 20 to 30 feet structurally higher than the Bernsen #1 discovery well at the Vicksburg level and an interesting deeper structure appears prospective for a test well for horizons in the Yegua and below. The Company owns a 62% working interest (48% NRI) in this discovery well and the prospect area.
Recently, the Company drilled the Bernsen #2 location using that 3-D seismic data for the well site location and found the Bierstadt and Alice zones about 16 feet and 24 feet higher structurally, respectively. For reasons not entirely clear, the logs showed gas-water contacts to have moved up also with the structural improvement although wireline formation tests of both zones showed them to be gas productive. Since 4 1/2 inch casing was run in the well, only the Bierstadt has been completed as a single zone gas producer in case water has to be handled along with the gas. After perforating the zone, the well instantaneously began flowing at the rate of approximately 200,000 cubic feet per day through a small 6/64th inch choke with 1300 psi flowing tubing pressure and no formation water. The well has been turned to sales and its flow rate will continue to be highly restricted and monitored to make certain that bottom water is not being coned upward after which time it will be increased. An offset well will be required in due course to protect offsetting royalty owners not presently included in this drill site.
Titles
The Company is confident that it has satisfactory title to its producing properties which are held pursuant to leases from third parties and have been examined on several occasions to determine their suitability to serve as collateral for bank loans. Oil and gas interests are subject to customary interest and burdens, including overriding royalties and operating agreements. Titles to the Company's properties may also be subject to liens incident to operating agreements and minor encumbrances, easements and restrictions.
As is customary in the oil and gas industry, the Company does not regularly investigate titles to oil and gas leases when acquiring undeveloped acreage. Title is typically examined before any drilling or development is undertaken by checking the county and various governmental records to determine the ownership of the land and the validity of the oil and gas leases on which drilling is to take place. The methods of title examination adopted by the Company are reasonably calculated, in the opinion of the Company, to insure that production from its properties, if obtained, will be readily salable for the account of the Company. As stated above, certain of the Company's producing properties have been subject to independent title investigations as a consequence of bank loans obtained and have been accepted for such purposes. Insofar as is known to the Company, there is no material litigation pending or threatened pertaining to its proved acreage.
The producing and non-producing acreages are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes, and other burdens, none of which, in the opinion of the Company, materially interfere with the use of or adversely affect the value of such properties.
Competition, Marketing and Customers
Competition and Marketing. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Major oil and gas companies, independent producers with public drilling and production purchase programs and individual producers and operators are active bidders for desirable oil and gas properties as well as for the equipment and labor required to operate such properties. Many competitors have financial resources, staffs and facilities substantially greater than those of the Company. A ready market for the oil and gas production is, to a limited extent, dependent upon the cost and availability of alternative fuels as well as upon the level of consumer demand and domestic production of oil and gas; the amount of importation of foreign oil and gas; the cost and proximity to pipelines and other transportation facilities; the regulation of state and federal authorities; and the cost of complying with applicable environmental regulations.
All production of crude oil and condensate by the Company is sold to others at field prices posted by the principal purchasers of crude oil in the areas where the producing properties are located. In the Company's judgment, termination of the arrangements under which such sales are made would not adversely affect its ability to market oil and condensate at comparable prices. During recent years, the posted prices were directly affected by the fluctuations in the supply and price of imported crude oil as well as by trading of oil futures.
A very limited amount of the natural gas produced by the Company is being sold at the well head under long-term contracts. Following deregulation of natural gas, excesses of domestic supply over demand, plus competition from alternate fuels caused Columbus, through CGSI, to take a much more active role in marketing its own gas along with gas owned by third parties.
Customers. Sales to four purchasers of crude oil and natural gas, which amounted to more than 10% of the Company's combined revenues for the years ended November 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, are set forth in Note 3 to Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In the opinion of management, a loss of a customer has not to date, and should not in the future, materially affect the Company since the nature of the oil and gas industry is such that alternative purchasers are normally available on very short notice.
Government Regulations
The development, production and sale of oil and gas is subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations. In general, regulatory agencies are empowered to make and enforce regulations to prevent waste of oil and gas, to protect the correlative rights and opportunities to produce oil and gas between owners of a common reservoir, and to protect the environment. Matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, taxation and environmental protection. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas.
The Company believes that the environmental regulations, as presently in effect, will not have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position in the industry. Consequently, the Company does not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the current year or any succeeding year. No assurance can be given as to the future capital expenditures which may be required for compliance with environmental regulations as they may be adopted in future. The Company believes, however, that it is reasonably likely that the trend in environmental legislation and regulations will continue to be towards stricter standards. For instance, legislation previously considered in Congress would amend the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act to reclassify oil and gas production wastes as "hazardous waste," the effect of which would be to further regulate the handling, transportation and disposal of such waste. If similar legislation were to pass, it could have a significant adverse impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general.
Operating Hazards
The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharge of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, potential risks; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at premium levels that justify its purchase or whether insurance will be available at all. Generally, the Company has elected to not obtain blow-out insurance when drilling a well, except for deep high pressure wells or when required such as within city limits.
Natural Gas Controls
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has issued several rules which encourage sales of gas directly to end users and provides open access to existing pipelines by producers and end users at the highest possible prices that can be negotiated. All price controls were terminated as of January 1, 1993. On April 8, 1992, FERC issued Order No. 636 which has essentially restructured the interstate gas transportation business. The stated purpose of Order 636 was to improve the competitive structure of the pipeline industry and maximize consumer benefits from the competitive wellhead gas market and to assure that the services non-pipeline companies can obtain from pipelines is comparable to the services pipeline companies offer to their customers. The Order is complex and, while it faces challenges in court, it has been fully activated following a rehearing with minimum modification and subsequent reissuance as FERC Order No. 636A. The Company is not able to predict the extent to which this very complex order will change the industry in the long term but short term it has led to much more competitive markets and raised serious questions about whether gathering systems of interstate pipelines can be sold off and totally escape regulation.
Item 3.