Item 2. PROPERTIES
Oil and Gas Properties
Reserves
The estimated reserve amounts and future net revenues were determined by outside consulting petroleum engineers. The reserve tables presented below show total proved reserves and changes in proved reserves owned by Columbus for the three years ended November 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
Proved Developed Producing Reserves
As of November 30, 1999, Columbus has approximately 815,000 barrels of proved developed producing oil and condensate in the United States most of which are attributable to primary recovery operations. Producing oil properties in Montana and Texas account for over 98%, and Texas alone 77%, of the reserves in the proved developed producing category.
The gas producing properties owned by Columbus are located in Texas, North Dakota, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Montana and contain 11.0 billion cubic feet of proved developed producing gas reserves. Texas properties account for 95% of these reserves.
The reserves in this category can be materially affected positively or negatively by either currently prevailing or future prices because they determine the economic lives of the producing wells.
Proved Developed Non-Producing Reserves
The reserves in this category are located in the states of Texas, Louisiana and Montana. Generally, these are reserves behind the casing in existing wells with recompletion required before commencement of production or else are in wells being completed and/or completed but awaiting pipeline connections at year end.
Columbus' non-producing reserves equal 110,000 barrels of oil, or 9% of its total proved oil reserves, and 3.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or 20% of its total proved natural gas reserves.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Columbus' proved undeveloped reserves were approximately 333,000 barrels and 3.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas. Almost all of the oil reserves in this category are in Montana. All of the proved undeveloped gas reserves are attributable to undrilled locations offsetting production in Webb, Zapata, Harris and Jim Hogg Counties, Texas and Montana.
These reserves are expected to either be developed during 2000 or in future when there is some stabilization of oil prices at levels which will yield a satisfactory rate of return on investment without fear of another roller coaster price fallout.
Standardized Measure
The schedule of Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows (the "Standardized Measure") is presented below pursuant to the disclosure requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities" (SFAS- 69) for such information. Future cash flows are calculated using year-end oil and gas prices and operating expenses, and are discounted using a 10% discount factor.
STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO ESTIMATED PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES (thousands of dollars)
CHANGE IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS FROM ESTIMATED PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1999 (thousands of dollars)
The standardized measure is intended to provide a standard of comparable measurement of the Company's estimated proved oil and gas reserves based on economic and operating conditions existing as of November 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997. Pursuant to SFAS-69, the future oil and gas revenues are calculated by applying to the proved oil and gas reserves the oil and gas prices at November 30 of each year relating to such reserves. Future price changes are considered only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end. Production and development costs are based upon costs at each year end. Future income taxes are computed by applying statutory tax rates as of year end with recognition of tax basis, net operating loss carryforwards, depletion carryforwards, and investment tax credit carryforwards as of that date and relating to the proved properties. Discounted amounts are based on a 10% annual discount rate. Changes in the demand for oil and gas, price changes and other factors make such estimates inherently imprecise and subject to revision.
Discounted future net cash flows before income taxes for reserves were $30,173,000 in 1999, $25,986,000 in 1998, and $37,301,000 in 1997. As required by SFAS-69, the future tax computation appearing in the above table does not consider the Company's annual interest expenses and general and administrative expenses nor future expenditures for intangible drilling costs. Because of these factors, the tax provisions are not truly representative of the expected lower future tax expense to the Company so long as it remains an active operating company.
The reserve and standardized measure tables prescribed by the SEC and presented above are prepared on the basis of a weighted average price for all properties as of each year end. At November 30, 1999 the crude oil price (including natural gas liquids) was $23.48 per barrel and the natural gas price was $2.41 per thousand cubic feet. The SEC requires that this computation utilize those year end prices and expenses which are then held constant, except for contractual escalations, over the life of the property.
The calculation of discounted future cash flows can be materially affected by being compelled to use only those prices that happen to be effective on November 30 each year (Columbus' fiscal year end) because of price volatility. Mandatory usage of prices which happen to prevail on a single date can have an inordinate influence on year-end reserves as well as on the resulting year to year change that a company reports for discounted future net cash flows determined using this standardized measure calculation. Management has long advocated using a weighted average of prices actually received throughout the year to make this standardized measure calculation less susceptible to the impact of wide monthly fluctuations in prices which have occurred so frequently in recent years. Even using weighted average annual prices still may or may not be very indicative of future cash flows because average prices may vary widely in future fiscal years.
Both 1999 and 1998 fiscal years are good examples of why an average price would be preferable in management's opinion since year end prices for natural gas and crude oil were significantly different from the average annual prices received.
Outside Consultant's Report
An outside consulting firm, Reed Ferrill & Associates, was retained for the purpose of preparing a report covering the reserves of the Company's properties and a future production forecast using constant prices as of November 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997. The reports for 1998 and 1997 on the reserves of the properties located in the Berry Cox field in Texas were prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc., another outside consulting firm. These reports are prepared each year as required by the Company's bank line of credit.
Production
Columbus' net U.S. oil and gas production for each of the past three fiscal years is shown on the following table:
Fiscal Year ---------------------------------------- 1999 1998 1997 ---- ---- ---- Oil-barrels 169,000 221,000 249,000 Gas-Mmcf 3,201 3,499 3,370
During the fiscal year 1999, Columbus filed Form EIA23 with the Energy Information Agency which required disclosure of oil and natural gas reserve data for wells operated by Columbus. The reserve data reported was for calendar year 1998. This data was reported on a gross operated basis inclusive of royalty interest and, therefore, does not compare with Columbus' net reserves reported for 1998.
Average price and cost per unit of production for the past three fiscal years are as follows:
Fiscal Year ----------------------------------------- 1999 1998 1997 ------ ---- ---- Average sales price: per barrel of oil $16.63 $13.22 $19.62 per Mcf of gas $ 2.28 $ 2.18 $ 2.65 Average production cost per equivalent barrel $ 4.18 $ 4.00 $ 3.83
Natural gas is converted to oil at the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil. Production costs for fiscal years 1999, 1998 and 1997 include production taxes.
Developed Properties
A summary of the gross and net interest in producing wells and gross and net interest in producing acres is shown in the following table:
November 30, 1999 Gross Net - ----------------- ---------------- ---------------- Oil Gas Oil Gas --- --- --- --- Wells 80 169 21 21
Acres 33,788 9,845
Undeveloped Properties
The following table sets forth the Company's ownership in undeveloped properties:
November 30, 1999 Gross Acres Net Acres - ------------------ ----------- --------- Louisiana 16,047 1,561 Montana 11,223 6,759 New Mexico 840 630 North Dakota 1,659 277 Oklahoma 1,280 640 Texas 7,460 3,682 ------ ------ Total Undeveloped Properties 38,509 13,549 ====== ======
Drilling Activities
The Company engages in exploratory and development drilling in association with third parties, typically other oil companies. Actual drilling operations are not conducted by the Company and are usually carried out by third party drilling contractors, but the Company may act as operator of the projects. The following table gives information regarding the Company's drilling activity in its last three fiscal years.
Current Activities
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999 and subsequent thereto, there was a flurry of drilling and completion activity involving the El Squared prospect in Bee County. This was primarily related to the impending expiration of the primary term of the Fred Long lease which represented over 40% of the approximate 5,700 acres of leaseholds in that prospect block. This lease could be extended over the primary term with two alternatives available. One of these required payment to the royalty owner of approximately $500,000 of lease bonus for a two-year lease extension agreement which also required modifications to the base lease with some fairly significant changes in the size of and the manner in which drilling units could be created or pooled. The other alternative available was to have drilling operations under way over the primary term of the lease or have a well completing within 60 days of expiration of the primary term of the lease, or both.
Columbus, as operator for its own account as well as on behalf of participants, determined to have both circumstances in existence by essentially utilizing the bonus money equivalent to commence drilling a deviated wellbore toward an upper Massive objective after cutting a window in the casing in the Long #3 and be drilling over the January 7, 2000 lease expiration date. Fortunately, there was already a completion attempt under way at the Long #4 which met the within 60 days of the lease expiration requirement. During the last week in December 1999 and early in January of 2000, management initially tried to establish commercial production from a lower Massive section at approximately 13,000 feet as well as in a stray sand in the Massive silt interval at approximately 12,300 feet. It was assumed that if those zones proved to be unsuccessful, the upper Massive Sand at approximately 12,000 feet, which had an excellent electric log in that interval, could be completed as a gas producer. However, a continuous drilling program would be necessary with the commencement of a new well every 60 days following completion of a preceding well in order to keep the lease in force. This provision was expected to provide a sufficient period of time to allow the group to develop the anticipated reserves in fault block "B" in the upper and middle Wilcox Sands. Such a program would not maintain the deep Wilcox Reagan Sands under lease without drilling a wellbore to that depth, but the group was unwilling to take that route because of the expense and the risk associated therewith. Based on 3-D seismic interpretation, only one potential Reagan structure was being given up under the Long lease and those rights were owned under the remaining acreage.
Management was able to meet the critical path logistics necessary to keep the lease in force but then had to suffer severe disappointment from the results of those extraordinary efforts. As explained in a Special Interim Report to Shareholders on January 14, 2000, the lower Massive zone was fairly tight and yielded only about 100,000 cubic feet per day flow rate although it exhibited an extremely high shut-in bottom hole pressure of approximately 10,000 psig. Management was not confident that a fracture stimulation of that sand would yield a completion with sufficient flow rates to justify postponing completion of the upper Massive zone and leaving it shut-in behind unperforated casing. A dual completion was not practical. Furthermore, a small amount of water with limited gas had been added from the zone at 12,300 feet after being perforated. This effectively eliminated any further consideration of the basal sand being fracture stimulated without encountering considerable wellbore logistical problems to isolate that lower zone from the 12,300-foot zone.
As a consequence, completion efforts were moved uphole where we fully expected an excellent flow of gas from the upper Massive zone. This belief was supported by good sand in the mud samples along with a reasonable show of gas plus corroborating electric logs of the interval. The latter had been interpreted by various service company experts, our consultants, and Columbus' own personnel as being gas productive with a reasonably high flow rate anticipated. This confidence was further supported by log calculations which were made using available known resistivities from water samples obtained from an upper Massive Sand interval in the initial deviated hole drilled from the Long #3 which had flowed gas and water. It was over 300 feet down structure from this Long #4 sand but was in a separate fault block. To the absolute astonishment of all concerned, this upper Massive Sand inexplicably yielded formation water with only a very limited amount of accompanying gas. In fact, a significant hourly rate was swabbed from 25 feet of perforations from within a gross sand interval of 90 feet so the zone was permeable but definitely wet. To date, no one has a solid explanation for these results. Admittedly, the water in this interval was a bit fresher and this isolated fault block was probably completely sealed, but this is not a satisfactory explanation. So confident that commercial gas production would be found by every person involved, the Company had already installed a gathering line in order to connect the well and commence sales immediately. Unfortunately, surprises such as this have plagued explorationists since the first U.S. commercial oil discovery in 1859. It is a part of the business not understood by most people outside of the industry and is painful to those within.
As soon as it was established that the upper Massive Sand was water productive, management also shut down drilling operations at the Long #3 sidetrack hole. However, by the time this could be done, the wellbore was already at a measured depth of 10,800 feet and was over 150 feet away from the original wellbore and at a 20 degree angle. Management did weigh the possibility of continuing drilling operations at the Long #3 until it reached its objective since it would have required only a few days and because this sand would be in a different fault block. To support the notion that this might make a difference, the sand in the initial Long #3 deviated wellbore had yielded considerably more gas than the Long #4 despite being over 300 feet structurally lower. However,
the likelihood of finding a water free completion updip in the Long #3 fault block carried too much risk. It was believed those same funds could be used to further develop additional gas reserves from the Slick Sands which are known producers in this "B" fault block area.
Because of the Long #4 results, two other identified upper Massive locations were scrapped and it was determined to farmout about 1,000 acres of leaseholds within the "A" fault block area on the east side of the El Squared acreage block. This farmout will require a test of a sizable Massive structure identified by 3-D seismic which will be followed by a working interest back-in after payout to Columbus, et al. In addition, there are at least three Slick/Luling Sand upper Wilcox structures previously identified on the El Squared acreage which can be drilled during fiscal 2000. While these structures are not quite so romantic as Massive prospects, they do offer potential reserves at each structure of 5 to 10 billion cubic feet plus associated condensate with considerably lower costs to develop.
As fiscal 1999 came to a close, Columbus had no rigs actively drilling at any of its other key areas as the focus and funds had been dedicated to El Squared activity. There were two wells in the Laredo area that had been drilled which for tax reasons were awaiting completion until after January 1, 2000. These were being carried as "in progress" at year end. A few proved undeveloped locations have been identified for drilling in the Laredo area during fiscal 2000 and more should be forthcoming.
A more detailed description related to recent activities as segregated by Columbus' primary areas of operations follows:
South Texas - Laredo Area
This continues to be the most important operational area where the Company serves as operator of over 100 natural gas wells in various fields that extend from the southern city limits of Laredo to the B. R. Cox field in Jim Hogg County, approximately 80 miles to the south. In this area Columbus owns working interests ranging from 1% to 53% in wells which it operates and less than 10% in the relatively few wells where it does not.
For the past several years in the area near Laredo, Columbus has, for a good portion of each year, had at least one rig drilling infill, extension, and new fault block locations which had been identified by a 3-D seismic program conducted in 1994-95. During fiscal 1999, only five (1.01 net) gas wells were drilled and completed successfully. In addition, one (.06 net) well was drilled which resulted in a dry hole. The total number of wells was somewhat reduced from past drilling programs of 10 wells in fiscal 1998, 18 in fiscal 1997, and 12 in fiscal 1996.
In the B. R. Cox field, Columbus continued to postpone all workovers, recompletions, or new drilling because of the failure of the largest working interest owner's willingness or capability to advance their share of the funds required to do the work. Even worse, they would not agree to go non-consent and suffer penalties provided for in the Operating Agreement so we have been stalemated for years. Continued frustration with this "do nothing" stance appears about to be alleviated as that company recently agreed to sell the balance of its properties in this field to another operator. At least now the working interest holders should be able to jointly perform some much needed workovers to reestablish commercial production at several shut-in wells. Also, the group will consider drilling at least one or more wells during fiscal 2000.
El Squared Prospect - Bee County, Texas
This prospect area is one for which recent drilling activities were discussed in detail above and had previously been described in earlier reports and news releases as one of the most exciting areas for potential reserve accumulation since Columbus' Sralla Road discovery east of Houston in 1990. Currently, leaseholds approximate 5,700 acres in size of which all have been shot with 3- D seismic and Columbus currently owns a 55% working interest (42% NRI) while three of its drilling associates own working interests which total 20%. An energy company which originated the prospect owns the remaining 25% and its principal owner is also the mineral owner of the prospect's largest individual lease which is almost 2,500 acres in size. As indicated, there was a flurry of calendar year end activity because its expiration date was January 7, 2000. Two successful Slick Sand wells have been completed thereon with each of the wells being inside 320-acre units which overlap so approximately 450 plus acres out of the almost 2,500 acres will be held by production. The balance will probably be allowed to expire because of the lack of a continuous drilling program. Most of this leasehold cost was wiped out by exploratory expense charges in fiscal 1999 as it appears the Massive zones of the Wilcox have pretty much been condemned under the Long lease. Shallower sand development location(s) are within these producing units for the most part.
Only one working interest well (0.54 net), the Long #2, was actually completed during fiscal 1999 as lower Slick producer while the other two wells were in an "in progress" status at year end. These were the Long #3 (0.75 net WI) and the Long #4 (0.90 net WI) which were subsequently determined to be unsuccessful exploratory wells as previously discussed following recovery of water in the upper Massive in the Long #4 and cessation of drilling at the Long #3. These cased wellbores are being kept intact for the present in case they might be usable for some other purpose.
Several leases adjacent to the Long lease have now had their attractiveness eliminated by the Massive Sand being condemned in this "B" fault block. Some of those remaining leases have possibilities of being productive in the Slick/Luling zones of the upper Wilcox and three drillable structures have been identified thus far on remaining acreage in the prospect.
As mentioned in Current Activities, the proposed farmout which is about to be offered to industry is a separate leasehold block of 1,021 acres. The farmee would acquire 100% of this acreage and related seismic for $160,000 which approximates the actual cost thereof. An initial test well will be required to be drilled to a depth of 12,000 feet to test an upper Massive sand which underlies the "A" fault block and a 352-acre drilling unit has been defined for that purpose. Also, a lower Massive sand structure whose apex lies to the west of this initial test well site is essentially located entirely within this 1,021-acre leasehold block should the farmee desire to drill another wellbore at some future date. Such a test well is not a requirement under the proposed farmout agreement. At such time as the farmee has recovered all of its costs of drilling and completing the initial test well, Columbus, et al, will back in for a 33 1/3% working interest in that drilling unit assuming a successful completion. Because this wildcat location is in an entirely separate fault block and a separate structure on the basinward side of the "A" fault, it is unrelated to the Long #4. This test well will be the second deep test ever to be drilled in this fault block and its structural location is over 300 feet high to the prior well which was drilled in 1977. That initial well had excellent shows of gas in a sand which appears to be the upper Massive but that zone was never perforated and tested because the hole was junked while trying to run production liner. It is expected this farmout well will be drilled during the next few months assuming its terms can be negotiated successfully early in fiscal 2000.
In addition to the previously planned tests during fiscal 2000 of untested Slick/Luling structures on the remaining leaseholds which are still intact, the structure on which the Long #1 and #2 wells have been completed will require the drilling of a Long #5 wellbore in order to timely and adequately drain the main Slick sand and the lower Slick sand reservoirs. This well site should not only find those two reservoirs at structural positions of 30 feet to 45 feet high to Long #1 but would permit the upper portion of the lower Slick sand to be drained as it was faulted out in the Long #2. Also, the main Slick sand that produced initially in the Long #1 was shut-off by a through tubing bridge plug and needs to be returned to production very soon rather than wait until upper Slick reserves have been depleted in the Long #1. Particularly appealing is the fact the structurally favorable Long #5 location should recover "chimney" gas reserves for that zone as well as the lower Slick. Both producing zones would probably be produced through separate strings of tubing in this single wellbore to facilitate workover operations when required. A combination of the present worth value improvement of accelerating recovery of the gas reserves related to both reservoirs plus their higher structural locations that should recover reserves which might otherwise be lost more than justifies the drilling of this Long #5 location. It was previously proposed but then postponed because of the flurry of year end activity surrounding the testing of the Massive structures on the Long lease.
Sralla Road Field Area - Harris County, Texas
During fiscal 1999, there was participation in two wells drilled on the south end of this field. One of those wells was in the form of an overriding royalty (0.0022 NRI) in a successful gas well drilled by another operator. Because of the relatively minor amount of acreage that could be contributed to form the 160-acre drilling unit and the wellbore would have to be directionally drilled with no cinch completion, that acreage was farmed out and an overriding royalty retained. A second well, the Johnson/Peace #1, was drilled by that same operator at the southwesternmost end of the field. This proved to be an expensive dry hole as unfortunately the operator attempted to complete same. Columbus contributed its limited acreage owned to this 160-acre drilling unit and fortunately participated for only a 0.086 net working interest. This unit offset to the south Columbus' Jones #1 oil well discovery that was announced in fiscal 1998. That well was placed on production flowing 200 barrels of oil per day in June 1999 after completion of a gas gathering system through a densely populated area. Columbus owns 19% working interest in the Jones #1 well and 5% of the gathering system. Apparently there is a cross fault between the Jones #1 well and the Johnson/Peace #1 dry hole which accounts for the latter being water bearing. This is the first indication of water being present in the Jackson sand in the Sralla Road West Jackson sand field and most probably signals the southwestern extremity of the field has been found.
The Sralla Road Field area has been a very important asset to Columbus throughout the last decade. This was primarily because of a relatively small, but very prolific, Vicksburg oil field which generated the necessary cash flow which allowed the Company to take risks in extending both the initial Jackson sand field on the downthrown side of the "B" fault as well as on the upside thereof. The very thin (3' to 6') sand thickness found in both Jackson fields required the wells to be drilled on 160 acre spacing to make any economic sense when the costs and risks involved were weighed. There was little room for any dry holes or marginal wells to be drilled yet some were drilled as these fields were being defined. However, a combination of increased gas prices during the 1990's and the recent recovery of crude oil prices has definitely improved the outlook for obtaining a decent rate of return on recent investments during the coming years. Furthermore, without the initial Jackson sand oil discovery having been completed in only four feet of sand at the Davis Oil Unit #1 in 1988, the shallower Vicksburg oil discovery at the offset Davis B-1 would never have been found. One must therefore consider the overall return from the area from every source so the Jackson sand may claim credit for that discovery. Overall, this area proved to be very satisfactory from that standpoint and this field has been Columbus' primary source of field level cash flow for the past ten years.
About 20 miles east of the Sralla Road field, one of the best gas wells in which the Company owns an interest is located near the famous old Anahuac field in Chambers County, Texas. This well, the Syphrett Heirs #1, was discovered in July, 1997 and has sold around 100 million cubic feet of gas each month since that completion in the Frio 16 sand and is expected to do so for many years to come. Columbus originally owned a larger working interest but as a result of certain "back-ins" that interest approximated about 26% working interest in fiscal 1999. The most recent reserve review indicated that remaining reserves yet to be recovered approximate 4.92 BCF so it is expected that this well will yield a very high production rate for several more years.
Williston Basin Area
During the latter part of fiscal 1998 and the first half of fiscal 1999 this mature area of operations suffered from crude oil prices that were so ridiculously low that many of the wells which had been profitable had to be shut down as they were essentially being operated for the benefit of royalty owners and the state and local taxing authorities. They would not cover the operating expenses primarily because of pump failures as well as the fact that the principal producing horizons -- the Ordivician Red River formation and the Mississippian Mission Canyon formation -- produce water with the crude oil almost from the beginning of each well's productive life which becomes even a greater factor as the reservoirs approach the latter stages of their economic life. During fiscal 1998, a sizeable reduction was recognized for this area for both the proved producing and proved undeveloped crude oil reserves with essentially all undeveloped locations being eliminated as marginal or uneconomic. Also, the potential structures that had been identified by a 3-D Seismic program were eliminated from further consideration as warranting an exploratory test well. A general provision was made during both 1998 and 1999 in the form of an impairment for undeveloped acreage that probably would not justify a test before expiration of the primary term of the lease.
When crude oil prices began to recover toward mid-year 1999, an attempt was made to resume operations and all of the wells that had been shut-in. Not unexpectedly, several of the wells showed a reduced productivity of oil as a result of the shut-in period. In the instance of two Red River wells, the water percentage had increased to 100% or to such a high percentage as to be uneconomic. Fortunately, two of these wells, the Ullman #1 and the Young Heirs #4, had porous zones in the shallower Duperow formation which offered promise of
being productive of commercial rates of oil and were successfully recompleted in this uphole zone as oil discoveries. While the initial production began at higher rates, both of these wells leveled off to about 50 barrels of oil per day and have settled into what is believed will be the long slow decline which is customary with the various producing formations in this deeper portion of the Williston Basin. Most of the wells the Company owns in this area are at least 20 years old while several are over 30 years old and still are producing from the original zone in which the well was completed. Decline curve history of a majority of these reservoirs appears to settle at less than 5% per year with ultimate well life depending more on the integrity of the production casing against collapse opposite salt sections than on depletion. Also, since there appears to be evidence of a limited water drive in almost all of these fields. Although the production rates of these newly completed discoveries in the Duperow are modest, Columbus owns a substantial 63.7% working interest in the Ullman #2 and a 70.3% working interest in the Young Heirs #4 and their economic well life expectancy at this time could be in the 20 year range barring unforeseen mechanical problems.
By the end of fiscal 1999, the price of crude oil had recovered to a high enough level and for a sufficient length of time for some of the previously dropped reserves for proved undeveloped locations to be restored. Also, the economic well life of several wells was extended thereby adding to the proved developed producing reserves for those wells which had produced during the two years of low prices as well as for those which had successfully been placed back on production because water production had not rendered them uneconomic or had not been permanently abandoned or recompleted. If crude prices would eventually stabilize in the $25 per barrel range, management would feel more comfortable that a reasonable rate of return could be realized and the proved undeveloped locations could then be drilled. There is sufficient available forecasted cash flow in excess of preliminary budget for the coming year to enable Columbus to add one or more Red River wells and/or several of the shallower Mission Canyon locations.
Titles
The Company is confident that it has satisfactory title to its producing properties which are held pursuant to leases from third parties and have been examined on several occasions to determine their suitability to serve as collateral for bank loans. Oil and gas interests are subject to customary interest and burdens, including overriding royalties and operating agreements. Titles to the Company's properties may also be subject to liens incident to operating agreements and minor encumbrances, easements and restrictions.
As is customary in the oil and gas industry, the Company does not regularly investigate titles to oil and gas leases when acquiring undeveloped acreage. Title is typically examined before any drilling or development is undertaken by checking the county and various governmental records to determine the ownership of the land and the validity of the oil and gas leases on which drilling is to take place. The methods of title examination adopted by the Company are reasonably calculated, in the opinion of the Company, to insure that production from its properties, if obtained, will be readily salable for the account of the Company. As stated above, certain of the Company's producing properties have been subject to independent title investigations as a consequence of bank loans obtained and have been accepted for such purposes. Insofar as is known to the Company, there is no material litigation pending or threatened pertaining to its proved acreage.
The producing and non-producing acreages are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes, and other burdens, none of which, in the opinion of the Company, materially interfere with the use of or adversely affect the value of such properties.
Competition, Marketing and Customers
Competition and Marketing. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Major oil and gas companies, independent producers with public drilling and production purchase programs and individual producers and operators are active bidders for desirable oil and gas properties as well as for the equipment and labor required to operate such properties. Many competitors have financial resources, staffs and facilities substantially greater than those of the Company. A ready market for the oil and gas production is, to a limited extent, dependent upon the cost and availability of alternative fuels as well as upon the level of consumer demand and domestic production of oil and gas; the amount of importation of foreign oil and gas; the cost and proximity to pipelines and other transportation facilities; the regulation of state and federal authorities; and the cost of complying with applicable environmental regulations.
All production of crude oil and condensate by the Company is sold to others at field prices posted by the principal purchasers of crude oil in the areas where the producing properties are located. In the Company's judgment, termination of the arrangements under which such sales are made would not adversely affect its ability to market oil and condensate at comparable prices. During recent years, the posted prices were directly affected by the fluctuations in the supply and price of imported crude oil as well as by trading of oil futures.
A very limited amount of the natural gas produced by the Company is being sold at the wellhead under long-term contracts. Following deregulation of natural gas, excesses of domestic supply over demand, plus competition from alternate fuels caused Columbus, through CGSI, to take a much more active role in marketing its own gas along with gas owned by third parties.
Customers. Sales to four purchasers of crude oil and natural gas, which amounted to more than 10% of the Company's combined revenues for the years ended November 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997, are set forth in Note 3 to Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In the opinion of management, a loss of a customer has not to date, and should not in the future, materially affect the Company since the nature of the oil and gas industry is such that alternative purchasers are normally available on very short notice.
Government Regulations
The development, production and sale of oil and gas is subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations. In general, regulatory agencies are empowered to make and enforce regulations to prevent waste of oil and gas, to protect the correlative rights and opportunities to produce oil and gas between owners of a common reservoir, and to protect the environment. Matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, taxation and environmental protection. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas.
The Company believes that the environmental regulations, as presently in effect, will not have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position in the industry. Consequently, the Company does not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the current year or any succeeding year. No assurance can be given as to the future capital expenditures which may be required for compliance with environmental regulations as they may be adopted in future. The Company believes, however, that it is reasonably likely that the trend in environmental legislation and regulations will continue to be towards stricter standards. For instance, legislation previously considered in Congress would amend the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act to reclassify oil and gas production wastes as "hazardous waste," the effect of which would be to further regulate the handling, transportation and disposal of such waste. If similar legislation were to pass, it could have a significant adverse impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general.
Operating Hazards
The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharge of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, potential risks; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at premium levels that justify its purchase or whether insurance will be available at all. Generally, the Company has elected to not obtain blow-out insurance when drilling a well, except for deep high pressure wells or when required such as within city limits.
Natural Gas Controls
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has issued several rules which encourage sales of gas directly to end users and provides open access to existing pipelines by producers and end users at the highest possible prices that can be negotiated. All price controls were terminated as of January 1, 1993. On April 8, 1992, FERC issued Order No. 636 which has essentially restructured the interstate gas transportation business. The stated purpose of Order 636 was to improve the competitive structure of the pipeline industry and maximize consumer benefits from the competitive wellhead gas market and to assure that the services non-pipeline companies can obtain from pipelines is comparable to the services pipeline companies offer to their customers. Following a rehearing with minimum modification, it was subsequently reissued as FERC Order No. 636A which has led to much more competitive markets. It raised questions about whether gathering systems of interstate pipelines can be sold off and totally escape regulation but in more recent hearings FERC has failed to resolve this issue satisfactorily by suggesting this is a matter for regulatory authorities in various local jurisdictions.
Item 3.