Item 2. Properties of SCE
The principal properties of SCE are described below. Properties of EME and Edison Capital are discussed above under Business of the Nonutility Companies.
Existing Utility Generating Facilities
SCE owns and operates one diesel-fueled generating plant located on Santa Catalina island, 37 hydroelectric plants, and an undivided 75.05% interest (1,614 MW net) in San Onofre Units 2 and 3. These plants are located in Central and Southern California.
SCE also owns a 15.8% (590 MW net) share of Palo Verde which is located near Phoenix, Arizona. SCE owns a 48% undivided interest (754 MW net) in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners, which is a coal-fueled steam electric generating plant located in New Mexico. Palo Verde and Four Corners are operated by other utilities. In April 2000, SCE agreed to sell its 15.8% interest in Palo Verde and its 48% interest in Four Corners Generation Station to Pinacle West Energy for $550 million, subject to certain adjustments. The transaction remained subject to the approval of the CPUC, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the FERC and other state and federal entities, and to the receipt of a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. Under the sales agreement, competing offers could be solicited by SCE, subject to certain conditions, and any superior offers received were subject to certain matching rights by PWE. In late 2000, SCE received a superior offer for its Four Corners Generating Station, which PWE elected not to match. In January 2001, California state legislation was enacted which bars the sale of utility generating facilities, including SCE's Palo Verde and Four Corners generating facilities, until 2006. Under the MOU, SCE would continue to own its share of these generating assets, which would be subject to cost-based ratemaking, through 2010.
SCE operates and owns a 56% undivided interest (885 MW) in the Mohave Station, which consists of two coal-fueled steam electric generating units in Clark County, Nevada. In April 2000, the CPUC approved SCE's proposed auction process to sell its 56% interest in Mohave Generating Station. In May 2000, SCE agreed to sell its interest in Mohave to AES Corporation for approximately $533 million. The transaction was subject to final approval by the CPUC and various federal regulatory agencies. In June 2000, SCE submitted a compliance filing with the CPUC seeking approval of the auction results and the sale to AES. In January 2001, California state legislation was enacted which bars the sale of utility generating facilities, including SCE's Mohave plant, until 2006. Under the MOU, SCE would continue to own its generating assets, which would be subject to cost-based ratemaking, through 2010.
At year-end 2000, the existing SCE-owned generating capacity (summer effective rating) was divided approximately as follows: 44.6% nuclear, 31.8% coal, 23.4% hydroelectric, and 0.2% diesel. San Onofre, Four Corners, certain of SCE's substations and portions of its transmission, distribution and communication systems are located on lands of the U.S. or others under (with minor exceptions) licenses, permits, easements or leases, or on public streets or highways pursuant to franchises. Certain of such documents obligate SCE, under specified circumstances and at its expense, to relocate transmission, distribution, and communication facilities located on lands owned or controlled by federal, state, or local governments.
The 37 hydroelectric plants (some with related reservoirs) have an effective operating capacity of 1,156 MW, and are, with five exceptions, located in whole or in part on lands of the U.S. pursuant to 30- to 50-year governmental licenses that expire at various times between 2001 and 2029. Such licenses impose numerous restrictions and obligations on SCE, including the right of the United States to acquire projects upon payment of specified compensation. When existing licenses expire, FERC has the authority to issue new licenses to third parties, but only if their license application is superior to SCE's and then only upon payment of specified compensation to SCE. Any new licenses issued to SCE are expected to be issued under terms and conditions less favorable than those of the expired licenses. SCE's applications for the relicensing of certain hydroelectric projects with an aggregate dependable operating capacity of
about 112.67 MW are pending. Annual licenses have been issued to SCE hydroelectric projects that are undergoing relicensing and whose long-term licenses have expired. The annual licenses will be renewed until the long-term licenses are issued. SCE filed an application with the CPUC on December 15, 1999, seeking authorization to market value and retain the ownership and operation of the hydroelectric plants pursuant to the State's electric utility industry restructuring legislation. In 1999, SCE filed an application with the CPUC establishing for purposes of the application a market value for its hydroelectric generation-related assets at approximately $1.0 billion (almost twice the assets' book value) and proposing to retain and operate the hydroelectric assets under a performance-based, revenue-sharing mechanism. The application has broad-based support from labor, ratepayer and environmental groups. If approved by the CPUC, SCE would be allowed to recover an authorized, inflation-indexed operations and maintenance allowance, as well as a reasonable return on capital investment. A revenue-sharing arrangement would be activated if revenue from the sale of hydroelectricity exceeds or falls short of the authorized revenue requirement. SCE would then refund 90% of the excess revenue to ratepayers or recover 90% of any shortfalls from ratepayers. A final CPUC decision is expected in 2001. Under the MOU, SCE would withdraw this application, and would continue to own the hydroelectric assets, which would be subject to cost-based ratemaking, through 2010. In June 2000, SCE credited the TCBA with the proposed excess of market value over book value of its hydroelectric generation assets and simultaneously recorded the same amount in the GABA, pursuant to a CPUC decision. This balance was to remain in GABA until final market valuation of the hydroelectric assets. If there were a difference in the final market value, it would have been credited to or recovered from customers through the TCBA. Due to the various unresolved regulatory and legislative issues (as discussed in Significant Developments in California Electric Utility Restructuring), the GABA transaction was reclassified back to the TCBA, and the TCBA balance (as recalculated based on a March 27, 2001, CPUC interim decision) was written off as of December 31, 2000.
The capacity factors in 2000 for SCE's principal generation resources were: 45.1% for SCE's hydroelectric plants (lower than average due to below-normal water conditions); 96.4% for San Onofre; 77.9% for the Mohave Station; 79.2% for Four Corners Units 4 and 5; and 93% for Palo Verde.
Substantially all of SCE's properties are subject to the lien of a trust indenture securing First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds (Trust Indenture), of which approximately $2 billion in principal amount was outstanding on December 31, 2000. Such lien and SCE's title to its properties are subject to the terms of franchises, licenses, easements, leases, permits, contracts, and other instruments under which properties are held or operated, certain statutes and governmental regulations, liens for taxes and assessments, and liens of the trustees under the Trust Indenture. In addition, such lien and SCE's title to its properties are subject to certain other liens, prior rights and other encumbrances, none of which, with minor or insubstantial exceptions, affect SCE's right to use such properties in its business, unless the matters with respect to SCE's interest in Four Corners and the related easement and lease referred to below may be so considered.
SCE's rights in Four Corners, which is located on land of The Navajo Nation of Indians under an easement from the U.S. and a lease from The Navajo Nation, may be subject to possible defects. These defects include possible conflicting grants or encumbrances not ascertainable because of the absence of, or inadequacies in, the applicable recording law and the record systems of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and The Navajo Nation, the possible inability of SCE to resort to legal process to enforce its rights against The Navajo Nation without Congressional consent, possible impairment or termination under certain circumstances of the easement and lease by The Navajo Nation, Congress, or the Secretary of the Interior, and the possible invalidity of the Trust Indenture lien against SCE's interest in the easement, lease, and improvements on Four Corners.
As discussed above, the MOU between the CDWR and SCE calls for the State's purchase of SCE's transmission lines for an estimated price of $2.76 billion (2.3 times book value). The sale is subject to execution of a definitive sale agreement and other conditions. If a sale of the transmission assets is not completed under certain circumstances, the MOU calls for SCE's hydroelectric assets, and potentially additional rights to output from its other generating stations, to be sold to the State.
SCE Construction Program and Capital Expenditures
Cash required by SCE for its capital expenditures totaled $1.1 billion in 2000, $986 million in 1999, and $861 million in 1998. Construction expenditures for the 2001-2005 period are forecasted at $4.5 billion, but may have to be scaled back unless regulatory or legislative changes make SCE creditworthy again.
In addition to cash required for construction expenditures for the next five years as discussed above, $3.4 billion is needed to meet requirements for long-term debt maturities and sinking fund redemption requirements.
SCE's estimates of cash available for operations for the five years through 2005 assume, among other things, satisfactory reimbursement of cos incurred during the California Energy Crisis, the receipt of adequate and timely rate relief, and the realization of its assumptions regarding cost increases, including the cost of capital. SCE's estimates and underlying assumptions are subject to continuous review and periodic revision.
The timing, type, and amount of all additional long-term financing are also influenced by market conditions, rate relief, and other factors, including limitations imposed by SCE's Articles of Incorporation and Trust Indenture. Because of its current liquidity and credit problems, SCE is unable to obtain financing of any kind. Similarly, as a result of investor's concerns regarding the California energy crisis' effect on SCE's liquidity and overall financial condition, SCE has repurchased $849 million of pollution-control bonds that could not be remarketed in accordance with their terms. These bonds may be remarketed in the future if SCE's credit status improves sufficiently. In January 2001, Fitch, Standard and Poor's, and Moody's Investors Service lowered their credit ratings of SCE to substantially below investment grade. In mid-April, Moody's removed SCE's credit ratings from review for possible downgrade. The ratings remain under review for possible downgrade by the other agencies.
Under the MOU among the CDWR, SCE and Edison International, Edison International and SCE would commit to make capital investments in SCE's regulated businesses of at least $3 billion through 2006, or a lesser amount approved by the CPUC. The equity component of the investments would be funded from SCE's retained earnings or, if necessary, from equity investments by Edison International.
Nuclear Power Matters
SCE's nuclear facilities have been reliable sources of inexpensive, non-polluting power for SCE's customers for more than a decade. Throughout the operating life of these facilities, SCE's customers have supported the revenue requirements of SCE's capital investment in these facilities and for their incremental costs through traditional cost-of-service ratemaking.
In 1996, the CPUC adopted SCE's San Onofre Unit 2 and 3 proposal under which SCE would have recovered its remaining investment in the San Onofre Units at a reduced rate of return of 7.35%, but on an accelerated basis during the eight-year period from the effective date in 1996 through December 31, 2003. California's restructuring legislation, however, requires the recovery of the San Onofre investment to be completed by December 31, 2001. In addition, the traditional cost-of-service ratemaking for San Onofre Units 2 and 3 was superseded by an incentive pricing plan in which SCE's customers pay a preset price for each kWh of energy generated at San Onofre during the eight-year period. The restructuring legislation allows for the continuation of the incentive pricing plan through December 31, 2003. SCE is compensated for the incremental costs required for the continued operation of San Onofre Units 2 and 3 with revenue earned through the incentive pricing plan. SCE also retained the ability to request recovery of the cost of replacement energy for periods in which San Onofre will not generate power through ECAC filings and, beginning in 1998, as part of the TCBA mechanism. These rate-making plans and the TCBA mechanism will continue for rate-making purposes through the end of the rate freeze period. However, due to the various unresolved regulatory and legislative issues (see discussion in the Significant Developments in
California Electric Utility Restructuring above), SCE is not able to conclude that the unamortized nuclear investment regulatory assets are probable of recovery through the rate-making process. As a result, these balances were written off as a charge to earnings as of December 31, 2000. The restructuring legislation also allows SCE to continue to collect funds for decommissioning expenses through traditional ratemaking treatment. If the MOU is implemented, or a rate mechanism provided by legislation or regulatory authority is established that makes recovery from regulated rates probable as to all or a portion of the amount that has been charged against earnings, a regulatory asset would be correspondingly reinstated with a corresponding increase in earnings.
On July 16, 1997, the CPUC approved SCE's request to transfer the recorded net investment in San Onofre Units 2 and 3 step-up transformers to San Onofre Units 2 and 3 sunk costs for recovery by December 31, 2001, at a reduced rate of return of 7.35%.
On August 21, 1997, the CPUC approved San Diego Gas & Electric's (SDG&E) and SCE's Joint Petition to Modify, requesting continued recovery of certain corporate administrative and general costs allocable to San Onofre Units 2 and 3, at rates of 0.28(cent) and 0.21(cent) per kWh, respectively, for the period January 1, 1998, through December 31, 2003.
In 1996, SCE filed its Palo Verde Proposal Application requesting adoption of a new rate mechanism for Palo Verde consistent with that of San Onofre Units 2 and 3. On November 15, 1996, SCE, the ORA, and TURN entered into a settlement agreement, which was approved by the CPUC on December 20, 1996. The agreement allows SCE to recover its remaining investment in the Palo Verde units by December 31, 2001, at a reduced rate of return of 7.35% consistent with the restructuring legislation. The settling parties agreed that SCE would recover its share of Palo Verde incremental operating costs, except if those costs exceed 95% of the levels forecast by SCE in its application by more than 30% in any given year. In such cases, SCE must demonstrate that the aggregate amount of the costs exceeding the forecast in that year is reasonable. If the annual Palo Verde site gross capacity factor is less than 55% in a calendar year, SCE will bear the burden of proof to demonstrate that the site's operations causing the gross capacity factor to fall below 55% were reasonable in that year. If operations are determined to be unreasonable by the CPUC, SCE's replacement power purchases associated with that period of Palo Verde operations below 55% gross capacity factor may be disallowed.
Beginning in 2002, the net benefits of future operation of Palo Verde Units 1, 2, and 3 will be shared equally between shareholders and customers. Likewise, beginning in 2004, the benefits of future operation of San Onofre Units 2 and 3 will be shared equally between shareholders and customers. If the MOU is implemented, the sharing of net benefits received from the post-2001 operation of Palo Verde and post-2003 operation of San Onofre Units 2 and 3 equally between shareholders and ratepayers would be eliminated, but these units would continue to be subject to cost-based ratemaking through December 31, 2010.
San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station
In 1992, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement between SCE and the ORA to discontinue operation of Unit 1 at the end of its then-current fuel cycle. In November 1992, SCE discontinued operation of Unit 1. As part of the agreement, SCE recovered its remaining investment over a four-year period ending August 1996. On December 21, 1998, SCE filed an application with the CPUC requesting authorization to access its nuclear decommissioning trust funds for Unit 1 for the purpose of commencing decommissioning of Unit 1 in 2000. On March 8, 1999, SCE, SDG&E, the ORA and TURN entered into a settlement agreement that provided for SCE to access its nuclear decommissioning trust funds for Unit 1 decommissioning. On June 3, 1999, the CPUC adopted the settlement agreement. On December 6, 1999, SCE applied for a coastal permit to demolish and remove San Onofre Unit 1 buildings and other structures and to construct a temporary used fuel storage facility (also referred to as an independent spent fuel storage installation) as part of the San Onofre Unit 1 decommissioning project. On February 15, 2000, the California Coastal Commission approved SCE's application. Decommissioning of Unit 1 is now underway and it is anticipated that decommissioning will continue through 2008. At that time, San Onofre
Unit 1 will be completely dismantled and only the spent nuclear fuel will remain on-site in an independent spent fuel storage installation. All of SCE's reasonable San Onofre Unit 1 decommissioning costs will be paid from its nuclear decommissioning trust funds.
San Onofre Unit 3 is in a forced outage because of the failure of an electrical component in the non-nuclear portion of the plant resulting in a fire on February 3, 2001. The electrical circuit breaker failure and resultant fire had significant consequences beyond just the damage to the electrical components and cabling. Loss of electrical power supply in the secondary side of the plant also resulted in loss of lubricating oil to the turbine generator system while it was still rotating. This caused severe and extensive damage to the turbine generator rotors, bearings and other components. SCE presently expects that repair costs will be covered by applicable insurance except for an approximate $1.9 million deductible. SCE loses about $800,000 per day of revenue for each day of the outage under the currently effective San Onofre Units 2 and 3 Incremental Cost Incentive Pricing plan. The unit is expected to return to service at the end of June. It is estimated that the lost revenue due to this repair outage will be approximately $110 million.
The San Onofre Units 2 and 3 steam generator design allows for the removal of up to 10% of the tubes before the rated capacity of the unit must be reduced. Increased tube degradation was found during routine inspections in 1997. To date, 8% of Unit 2's tubes and 6% of Unit 3's tubes have been removed from service. A decreasing (favorable) trend in degradation has been observed in more recent inspections.
Additionally, in the summer of 2000, SCE applied for a coastal permit to construct a dry cask spent fuel storage installation for Units 2 and 3. This permit application was approved, with certain conditions, by the California Coastal Commission at its meeting on March 13, 2001.
Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station
In April 2000, SCE agreed to sell its 15.8% interest in Palo Verde and its 48% interest in Four Corners Generation Station to Pinacle West Energy (PWE) for $550 million, subject to certain adjustments. The transaction remained subject to the approval of the CPUC, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the FERC and other state and federal entities, and to the receipt of a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. Under the sales agreement, competing offers could be solicited by SCE, subject to certain conditions, and any superior offers received were subject to certain matching rights by PWE. In late 2000, SCE received a superior offer for its Four Corners Generating Station, which PWE elected not to match. In January 2001, California state legislation was enacted which bars the sale of utility generating facilities, including SCE's Palo Verde and Four Corners generating facilities, until 2006. Under the MOU, SCE would continue to own its generating assets, which would be subject to cost-based ratemaking, through 2010.
Nuclear Facility Decommissioning
Decommissioning of San Onofre Unit 1 (shutdown in 1992 per CPUC agreement) started in 1999 and will continue through 2008. All of SCE's San Onofre's Unit 1 decommissioning costs will be paid from its nuclear decommissioning funds. On March 9, 2000, the NRC amended the operating licenses for San Onofre Units 2 and 3 so that the operating licenses for both units expire in 2022. Prior to that amendment, the San Onofre Units 2 and 3 operating licenses expired in 2013. The Palo Verde operating licenses currently expire in 2026 and 2028, respectively. SCE plans to decommission San Onofre Units 2 and 3 as early as 2013 and Palo Verde at the end of each unit's operating license by a removal method authorized by the NRC.
Decommissioning is estimated to cost $2.1 billion in current-year dollars based on site-specific studies performed in 1998 for San Onofre and Palo Verde. This estimate considers the total cost of decommissioning and dismantling the plant, including labor, material, burial, and other costs. The site-specific studies are updated approximately every three years. Changes in the estimated costs, timing of
decommissioning, or the assumptions underlying these estimates could cause material revisions to the estimated total cost to decommission in the near term. SCE estimates that it will spend approximately $8.6 billion through 2060 to decommission its nuclear facilities.
Decommissioning expense was $106 million in 2000, $124 million in 1999, and $164 million in 1998. The accumulated provision for decommissioning excluding San Onofre Unit 1 and unrealized holding gains was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2000, $1.3 billion at December 31, 1999, and $ 1.2 billion at December 31, 1998. The estimated costs recorded as a liability to decommission San Onofre Unit 1 are approximately $342 million as of December 31, 2000.
Decommissioning funds collected in rates are placed in independent trusts which, together with accumulated earnings, will be utilized solely for decommissioning.
Nuclear Insurance
Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to $9.5 billion. SCE and other owners of San Onofre and Palo Verde have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available ($200 million). The balance is covered by the industry's retrospective rating plan that uses deferred premium charges to every reactor licensee if a nuclear incident at any licensed reactor in the U.S. results in claims and/or costs which exceed the primary insurance at that plant site. Federal regulations require this secondary level of financial protection. The NRC exempted San Onofre Unit 1 from this secondary level, effective June 1994. The maximum deferred premium for each nuclear incident is $88 million per reactor, but not more than $10 million per reactor may be charged in any one year for each incident. Based on its ownership interests, SCE could be required to pay a maximum of $175 million per nuclear incident. It would have to pay, however, no more than $20 million per incident in any one year. Such amounts include a 5% surcharge if additional funds are needed to satisfy public liability claims and are subject to adjustment for inflation. If the public liability limit above is insufficient, federal regulations may impose further revenue-raising measures to pay claims, including a possible additional assessment on all licensed reactor operators.
Property damage insurance covers losses up to $500 million, including decontamination costs, at San Onofre and Palo Verde. Decontamination liability and property damage coverage exceeding the primary $500 million has also been purchased in amounts greater than federal requirements. Additional insurance covers part of replacement power expenses during an accident-related nuclear unit outage. These policies are issued by a mutual insurance company owned by utilities with nuclear facilities. If losses at any nuclear facility covered by the arrangement were to exceed the accumulated funds for these insurance programs, SCE could be assessed retrospective premium adjustments of up to $19 million per year. Insurance premiums are charged to operating expense.
Item 3.