ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Prior to 1996, the Company's oil and gas properties were all located in the Rocky Mountain region, primarily in the D-J Basin, Powder River Basin, and Green River Basin. During 1996, the Company sold its D-J Basin assets and initiated operations in the Gulf Coast area, primarily offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. As of December 31, 1996, the estimated pre-tax present value of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves, using year end prices held constant and a discount rate of 10%, totaled $83,656,000 and was distributed as follows: Powder River Basin - 58%; Green River Basin - 14%; other onshore - 9%; Gulf of Mexico - 19%.
Powder River Basin
At December 31, 1996, developed reserves accounted for 55% of the Company's total estimated proved reserve quantities in the Powder River Basin, and 72% of the related pre-tax present value of future net revenues. Approximately 92% of such proved reserves were concentrated in three fields: Scott, Well Draw, and Jepson-Holler Draw. At the end of 1996, the Company owned interests in 224 producing wells and in another 71 locations attributed proved undeveloped reserves within these fields. The Jepson-Holler Draw Field was unitized in 1996 for purposes of initiating secondary recovery operations in the Shannon formation. Water injection commenced in January 1997 and production response is projected to be evident by late-1998. Most of the proved reserves estimated for Jepson-Holler Draw as of December 31, 1996 were categorized as undeveloped. The primary product produced from most of the Company's Powder River Basin properties is oil, but many of the wells also produce liquids-rich casinghead gas generally requiring processing for marketing. Proved reserves are distributed broadly among the wells and locations in these fields, such that no individual well or location accounts for a material portion of aggregate quantities attributed to these properties. Most of the Company's producing wells in the Powder River Basin have been online for several years and production declines are relatively well established. The Company had one development well in the Scott Field in process at December 31, 1996 and anticipates drilling 10 to 12 development wells on its Powder River Basin properties in 1997.
Green River Basin
At December 31, 1996, 76% of the Company's estimated proved reserve quantities in the Green River Basin and 83% of related pre-tax present value of future net revenue were proved developed. Approximately 92% of such proved reserve quantities were associated with the Bird Canyon, Scott Hill, and Horn Canyon fields. At the end of 1996, the Company held interests in 11 producing wells and five proved undeveloped locations within these fields. Scott Hill Field produces oil, whereas the Bird Canyon and Horn Canyon Fields produce predominantly gas. The producing wells in these fields have been on line for several years and generally exhibit stable performance histories, with established decline rates.
Gulf of Mexico
The Company's proved reserves in the Gulf of Mexico at December 31, 1996 were all categorized as undeveloped but related to logged pay sands that were behind-pipe. These reserves were attributable to two exploratory wells drilled in the fourth quarter of the year on Eugene Island (EI) Block 64 and EI Block 65, respectively. The EI 64 well was completed in a secondary objective after a deeper primary- objective sand was found nonproductive. The well has been suspended pending completion and tie-in to a nearby platform operated by a third party. The more significant apparent discovery was made on EI 65 where the #1 well was drilling over year-end 1996. Estimated proved reserves were ultimately attributed to two primary-objective pay sands in this well, but reported year end reserves pertained only to the shallower horizon, since the deeper zone was penetrated and logged in 1997. A second well is currently drilling on EI 65. It is anticipated that a production platform and facilities will be installed on the block later in 1997 to commence production from a dually-completed #1 well, and if successful the #2 well. The Company increased its interests in EI Blocks 64 and 65 in February 1997 as part of an acquisition. See "Present Activities" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Additional information related to the Company's properties is set forth below in the balance of this section.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases held by the Company as of December 31, 1996. Undeveloped acreage includes leasehold interests which may already have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
Basin engaged independent petroleum engineers, Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("Netherland Sewell"), to audit Basin's estimates of total proved reserves, projected future production, and estimated future net revenues from production of proved reserves for the Company's onshore properties as of December 31, 1996. Basin engaged Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers to prepare such estimates for the Company's offshore properties as of such date. These estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership, volumetric and engineering data. In determining the estimates of the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, oil and gas prices and estimated development and production costs as of December 31, 1996 were utilized.
The following table sets forth estimates as of December 31, 1996 derived from Basin's reserve reports. The present values (discounted at 10 percent) of estimated future net revenues before income taxes shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by Basin. For further information concerning the present value of future net revenue from these proved reserves, see Unaudited Supplemental Oil and Gas Reserve Information in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table sets forth estimates of Basin's total proved reserves at December 31, 1996 by geographic area of operations:
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment and the existence of development plans. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, prices, future production levels and cost, that may not prove correct over time. Predictions about prices and future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Oil and gas prices have fluctuated widely in recent years. There is no assurance that prices will not be materially higher or lower than the prices utilized in estimating Basin's reserves.
The weighted average sales prices utilized for purposes of estimating Basin's proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom as of December 31, 1996 were $25.35 per Bbl for oil and $3.02 per Mcf for gas. These prices are significantly above average prices prevailing during most of the past several years, and oil and gas prices have declined from such levels during the first two months of 1997.
PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth Basin's net oil and gas production, average sales prices, and costs and expenses associated with such production during the periods indicated.
Basin owned 363 gross (229 net) producing oil wells and 57 gross (39 net) producing gas wells as of December 31, 1996. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
DEVELOPMENT, EXPLORATION AND ACQUISITION EXPENDITURES
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the costs incurred by Basin in its development, exploration and acquisition activities during the periods indicated.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth the wells drilled and completed by Basin during the periods indicated.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 AND 1995
REVENUE. Excluding a $22,472,000 gain on sale of assets recognized during 1996, revenue for 1996 was $19,191,000, representing a decrease of $21,285,000, or 53%, as compared to 1995. The following table reflects the Company's average oil and gas prices and its average daily oil and gas production for the years presented:
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, ----------------------- 1996 1995 % CHANGE Average price: Oil (per bbl). . . $20.03 $17.02 18 Gas (MMcf) . . . . $ 1.44 $ 1.56 (8)
Average daily production: Oil (bbl). . . . . 1,540 3,160 (51) Gas (Mcf). . . . . 13,050 35,154 (63)
The decreases in average daily production were primarily attributable to the combined effects of sales of producing properties during 1996 and 1995 and natural production declines. As more fully described below under Liquidity and Capital Resources, the Company consummated two transactions during 1996 in which all of its assets in the D-J Basin were sold. As of December 31, 1995, these assets represented approximately two-thirds of the Company's producing wells and 70% of its proved oil and gas reserves. In conjunction with the second transaction, the Company recognized a $22,472,000 gain. Excluding production and sales from such D-J Basin properties, average oil and gas prices and average daily oil and gas production for the periods presented were:
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, ----------------------- 1996 1995 % CHANGE Average price: Oil (per bbl). . . $20.32 $17.61 15 Gas (per Mcf). . . $1.33 $1.09 22
Average daily production: Oil (Bbl). . . . . 1,118 1,341 (17) Gas (Mcf). . . . . 4,871 5,517 (12)
During 1995, the Company also recognized gas revenue for payments received with respect to transferred Section 29 tax credits in the amount of $2,857,000.
Other revenue in 1995 was primarily derived from a small processing facility that was decommissioned late in the year. In 1996, other revenue related mainly to interest income on cash equivalents held after the second D-J Basin asset sale transaction.
LEASE OPERATING EXPENSES. Lease operating expenses for 1996 were $4,776,000, a decrease of $3,420,000, or 42%, compared to 1995. Lease operating costs per Mcfe produced during 1996 averaged $.59 compared to $.42 in 1995. These higher costs per Mcfe were caused primarily by the increased portion of the Company's total active wells that are oil wells, with typically higher unit operating costs, following the sale of the D-J Basin assets.
PRODUCTION TAXES. Production taxes for 1996 were $1,829,000, a decrease of $1,649,000, or 47%, compared to 1995. Production taxes as a percent of oil and gas sales for 1996 were 10.1%, compared to 8.8% in 1995. The increased average tax rate was due to a greater portion of sales occurring in higher-tax jurisdictions in 1996.
DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 1996 was $7,606,000, a decrease of $9,596,000, or 56%, as compared to 1995. The decrease was primarily attributable to the lower production volumes
in 1996 as compared to 1995. The depletion rate of $.82 per Mcfe produced in 1996 was slightly lower than the $.84 per Mcfe average depletion rate during 1995.
PROPERTY IMPAIRMENT. During 1995, the Company recognized a property impairment charge of $26.5 million, as the result of the capitalized costs of its oil and gas properties exceeding a "ceiling" on such costs computed in accordance with prescribed accounting guidelines.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE, NET. General and administrative expenses for 1996 were $3,850,000, a decrease of $1,648,000, or 30%, as compared to 1995. The decreases resulted primarily from staff reductions made during the second half of 1995 and the first half of 1996 and partially due to reductions in office rent expense as a result of relocating and decreasing the size of the corporate headquarters.
INTEREST EXPENSE. Interest expense for 1996 totaled $2,254,000 representing a decrease of $4,178,000, or 65%, as compared to 1995. The decrease was principally attributable to lower average borrowings as a result of asset sales proceeds applied to debt retirement during 1996, as summarized below:
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, ----------------------- 1996 1995
Average borrowings (in thousands) $ 28,200 $ 78,800
Average interest rate on borrowings 8.0% 7.3%
INCOME TAX BENEFIT (PROVISION). The difference between the income tax provision for 1996 and the income tax benefit for 1995, and the amounts that would be calculated by applying statutory income tax rates to income before income taxes is due primarily to the 1996 reversal of the $2,196,000 deferred tax asset valuation allowance established during 1995.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
REVENUE. Revenue for 1995 was $40,476,000, a decrease of $3,911,000, or 9%, as compared to 1994. The following table reflects the Company's average oil and gas prices and its average daily oil and gas production for the years presented:
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, ----------------------- 1996 1995 % CHANGE Average price: Oil (per bbl). . . $17.02 $15.63 9 Gas (per Mcf). . . $ 1.56 $1.69 (8)
Average daily production: Oil (Bbl). . . . . 3,160 3,501 (10) Gas (Mcf). . . . . 35,154 39,389 (11)
The declines in production are partially attributable to the sale of marginal properties during 1995. Lower production also resulted from normal depletion-related declines that were not fully offset by new drilling and recompletion activities. The Company recognized gas revenues for payments received with respect to transferred Section 29 tax credits, in the amounts of $2,857,000 and $2,123,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
LEASE OPERATING EXPENSES. Lease operating expenses for 1995 were $8,196,000, a decrease of $446,000, or 5%, compared to 1994. Lease operating costs per Mcfe produced during 1995 averaged $.42 compared to $.39 in 1994. These higher costs per Mcfe were caused primarily by a decline in the number of new wells brought on line, since such wells typically have relatively high initial production rates, generating average unit production costs that are lower than more mature properties.
PRODUCTION TAXES. Production taxes for 1995 were $3,478,000, an increase of $46,000, or 1%, compared to 1994. Production taxes as a percent of oil and gas sales for 1995 were 8.8%, compared to 7.8% in 1994. The increased average tax rate was due to a greater portion of sales occurring in higher-tax jurisdictions in 1995.
DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 1995 was $17,202,000, a decrease of $961,000, or 5%, as compared to 1994. The decrease was attributable to the lower production volumes in 1995 as compared to 1994, as the average depletion rate of $.84 per Mcfe produced in 1995 was higher than the $.77 per Mcfe rate in 1994. The increase reflects investment costs per Mcfe of reserves added during the second half of 1994 and in 1995 which were above the Company's historical average, as well as a reduction in estimated proved reserves at December 31, 1995 due, in part, to the effects of using lower gas prices in determining economic production limits.
PROPERTY IMPAIRMENT. During 1995, the Company recognized a property impairment charge of $26.5 million, as the result of the capitalized costs of its oil and gas properties exceeding a "ceiling" on such costs computed in accordance with prescribed accounting guidelines.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE, NET. General and administrative expenses for 1995 were $5,498,000, an increase of $857,000, or 18%, as compared to 1994. The increase is primarily due to smaller recoveries from third-party working interest owners and nonrecurring charges of $545,000 related to staff reductions, settlement of a legal dispute, and an unsuccessful corporate acquisition effort. The lower recoveries resulted from the Company's acquisition in late-1994 of additional working interests in certain properties that it operates and reduced billings for drilling and completion overhead due to a less active property development program in 1995. Decreases in gross general and administrative expenses resulting from late-1995 reductions in office staff and other administrative costs had minimal impact in 1995.
INTEREST EXPENSE. Interest expense for 1996 totaled $6,432,000, an increase of $2,814,000, or 78%, as compared to 1994. This increase was due to the combined effects of increased average borrowings and higher interest rates, as summarized below:
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, ---------------------- 1996 1995
Average borrowings (in thousands) $ 78,800 $ 55,600
Average interest rate on borrowings 7.3% 5.7%
INCOME TAX BENEFIT (PROVISION). The difference between the income tax benefit for 1995, and the amount that would be calculated by applying statutory income tax rates to the loss before income taxes is due to the establishment of a $2,196,000 deferred tax asset valuation allowance during 1995.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
In February 1996, the Company entered into two agreements pursuant to which it sold all of its assets in the D-J Basin, effective January 1, 1996, for an aggregate adjusted sales price of $123.5 million. The sale of approximately one-third of these D-J Basin assets was closed in March 1996 and the sale of the remainder was closed in June 1996. Combined, these transactions resulted in the disposition of two-thirds of the Company's total wells and approximately 70% of its estimated proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1995. A portion of the sales proceeds was used to repay all outstanding long-term debt and the remainder, net of transaction costs, was initially invested in short-term, interest-bearing cash equivalents pending redeployment into new oil and gas investments. The Company's remaining producing properties after the sale were primarily mature oil and gas fields in the Powder River Basin, Green River Basin, and elsewhere in the Rocky Mountain region.
In August 1996, following the sale of the D-J Basin assets, the Company entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with its existing bank group that improved certain terms, including fees and interest rates, applicable under the line of credit. The amended credit agreement provides for the interest rate on borrowings to be determined by reference to either the prime rate or LIBOR, at the Company's election. A varying spread of 0% to 0.5% is added to the prime rate, or 0.625% to 1.25% is applied to LIBOR, based upon the Company's debt-to-capitalization ratio at the time. The credit agreement provides for borrowings to be revolving loans until August 1, 1999, at which time the outstanding balance will be converted into a four-year amortizing term loan. The credit agreement contains various covenants, including ones that could limit the Company's ability to incur other debt, dispose of assets, pay dividends, or repurchase stock. The borrowing base under the revolving credit facility was established at $25 million in August 1996 and is scheduled to be redetermined as of April 30, 1997 and generally thereafter at six month intervals until converted into a term loan. The Company is anticipating that at the next redetermination date the borrowing base will be established at a level at or above the present level of $25 million, but there can be no assurance that this will occur. As of December 31, 1996, there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility. In addition to availability under the credit line, the Company's capital resources at December 31, 1996 included approximately $19.2 million of net working capital, inclusive of $22 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Prior to sale of its D-J Basin assets the Company had a working capital deficit and little unutilized capacity under its revolving credit facility. The D-J Basin asset sales significantly improved the Company's liquidity but also significantly reduced its oil and gas production and, consequently, its operating cash flow. Prior to 1995 the Company's investments in oil and gas properties typically exceeded its cash flow from operating activities, with the excess funded primarily with bank borrowings and proceeds from equity offerings. The Company's total capital expenditures on oil and gas properties totaled $22.8 million in 1996, $15.7 million in 1995, and $66.5 million in 1994. By comparison, cash flows from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities totaled $5.7 million in 1996, $17.1 million in 1995, and $25 million in 1994. The large decline in capital expenditures from 1994 to 1995 was due, in part, to liquidity constraints that developed when declining Rocky Mountain gas prices unfavorably impacted cash flow and borrowing capacity and reduced the number of economically viable development projects within the Company's asset base. The Company's capital expenditures are generally discretionary and activity levels are determined by a number of factors, including oil and gas prices, interest rates, availability of funds, quantity and character of identified investment projects, availability of service providers, and competition. The Company intends to use the improved liquidity resulting from the D-J Basin asset sales to make new investments in oil and gas properties, through acquisition and development of proved properties, exploration, and exploitation of its property base.
The Company had no extraordinary capital expenditure commitments pending at December 31, 1996. However, in February 1997 the Company acquired, for $14.4 million, interests in three Gulf of Mexico lease blocks with recently drilled wells that were attributed proved reserves but which required additional development to commence production. Development plans for these properties are discussed later in this section. Also, on March 5, 1997 the Company participated in winning bids for 11 tracts at the central Gulf of Mexico lease sale held by the federal government's Minerals Management Service (MMS). If all 11 tracts are awarded by the MMS, which can choose to reject all bids for a given lease, the Company's net share of the related leasehold bonuses will total approximately $5.7 million.
During the past several years the Company has been increasing its capital expenditures on exploration activities. Exploration activities generally have greater investment risk but a higher targeted rate of return than acquisition and development activities. The range of possible investment outcomes is ordinarily much greater for exploration than for other oil and gas investments. In 1996 the Company began focusing its exploration activities in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, offshore Louisiana and Texas. The Company had conducted no previous operations in the area and began the period with no prospect inventory. To conduct its Gulf Coast exploration activities the Company formed a Houston office staffed with experienced Gulf Coast geoscientists, engineers, and support personnel. During its initial year of operations in the Gulf Coast area the Company invested approximately $14.9 million in related exploration activities, including costs relating to leaseholds that were unproved at December 31, 1996 but net of $4.9 million of costs recouped through resale of partial interests in prospects to industry partners. Such investments primarily related to acquisitions of seismic data and mineral leaseholds, and participation in drilling four exploratory wells, two of which were successful. Because the successful wells were drilled late in the year, the Company did not incur significant related development costs in 1996. The Company's exploration plans for 1997 anticipate participation in five to ten new exploratory test wells, but only one such well has yet been scheduled and the actual number of test wells drilled may be more or less than anticipated.
The two successful wells noted above were drilled on Eugene Island (EI) Blocks 64 and 65, respectively. Both wells were attributed proved reserves as of December 31, 1996 but were categorized as undeveloped at that date because substantial future operations were required in order to make the wells capable of production. The EI 64 #1 well is expected to commence production in the second quarter of 1997 after completion and tie-in to a nearby production platform owned and operated by a third party. It is expected that a production platform will be installed on the EI 65 property in the third quarter of 1997 to produce the #1 well and, if it is successful, the #2 well which is currently drilling.
Through the $14.4 million acquisition consummated in February 1997, the Company increased its interests in EI Blocks 64 and 65. The third property acquired was an interest in East Cameron (EC) Block 378. A well on EC 378 was completed subsea in January 1997 and is waiting on pipeline installation to connect to a nearby third party production platform. Initial production from EC 378 is expected to commence during the third or fourth quarter of 1997.
The Company's capital budget for calendar 1997, excluding acquisitions not already consummated, is approximately $55 million, allocated as follows: approximately $15 million is provided for acquisitions of proved properties; approximately $20 million is provided for acquisitions of prospect leaseholds, seismic data procurement, and exploratory drilling costs; approximately $15 million relates to anticipated development of the Company's existing property base, including EI 64, EI 65, EC 378, and the Company's Rocky Mountain assets; and approximately $5 million is provided for other activities, including current year development of assumed exploratory discoveries. Much of this budget is dependent on future developments that are not entirely within the Company's control and which may not occur. The Company's actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates. Further, the Company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of proved properties, primarily in the Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain regions, which, while not budgeted, could be very significant.
Management believes that the current-year budget, as described above, can be funded without new sources of capital, by utilizing net working capital at the beginning of the period, projected cash flow, and borrowings under the revolving credit facility with the Company's bank group. Cash flow is expected to increase significantly during the latter part of the year when EI 64 and 65 and EC 378 are projected to be on-line; however, these properties have not produced before and the forecast on-line dates and production rates may not be achieved. If conditions warrant, the Company may consider raising additional capital through issuance of debt or equity securities. Should the Company undertake a large acquisition, issuing such securities or monetizing assets would likely be required to fund the transaction. In the absence of additional liquidity, the Company's ability to fund investment activities in future periods will be significantly affected by the results obtained from investments made in 1997.
Changes In Prices
The Company's revenue, cash flow, and the value of its oil and gas properties have been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in oil and natural gas prices. The Company's ability to maintain current borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also substantially dependent on oil and natural gas prices. As such, changes in oil and gas prices can significantly affect the amount of the Company's capital expenditures. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to significant seasonal and other fluctuations that are beyond the Company's ability to control or predict. The Company periodically enters into product swap agreements in order to hedge against the volatility of product prices. Although the Company enters into the agreements to limit exposure to price decreases, the agreements also limit the Company's ability to benefit from significant price increases on the contract volumes. Effective July 1, 1996, the Company entered into a crude oil swap agreement with a contract volume of 10,000 barrels per month through December 31, 1997. This agreement provides for the cash settlement of the differential between the $18.32 per barrel contract price and the average closing NYMEX crude oil price during each month. The Company has also entered into a crude oil collar arrangement effective for calendar 1997 on an additional 10,000 barrels per month. This agreement provides for the cash settlement of the differential between the monthly average closing NYMEX price and the contract floor of $19.50 per barrel or the contract ceiling of $24.35 per barrel, if the average monthly NYMEX price falls outside of the range defined by such contract floor and contract ceiling. Any gain or loss realized on these agreements is included as a component of oil sales in the month of production.
CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
Statements that are not historical facts contained in this report are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from projected results. Such statements address activities, events or developments that the Company expects, believes, projects, intends or anticipates will or may occur, including such matters as future capital, development and exploration expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), drilling of wells, reserve estimates (including estimates of future net revenues associated with such reserves and the present value of such future net revenues), future production of oil and gas, business strategies, expansion and growth of the Company's operations, cash flow and anticipated liquidity, prospect development and property acquisition, obtaining financial or industry partners for prospect or program development, or marketing of oil and gas. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially ("Cautionary Disclosures") are described, among other places, in the Marketing, Competition, and Regulation sections in this Form 10-K and under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Without limiting the Cautionary Disclosures so described, Cautionary Disclosures include, among others: general economic conditions, the market price of oil and natural gas, the risks associated with exploration, the Company's ability to find, acquire, market, develop and produce new properties, operating hazards attendant to the oil and natural gas business, the Company's inexperience in the Gulf of Mexico, uncertainties in the estimation of proved reserves and in the projection of future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, the strength and financial resources of the Company's competitors, the Company's ability to find and retain skilled personnel, climatic conditions, labor relations, availability and cost of material and equipment, delays in anticipated start-up dates, environmental risks, the results of financing efforts, and regulatory developments. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Disclosures, including without limitation those contained in the President's letter contained in the Annual Report to Stockholders. The Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward- looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring hereafter or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
The Consolidated Financial Statements that constitute Item 8 are attached at the end of this report. An index to the Consolidated Financial Statements appears in Item 14(a) of this report.
ITEM 9. CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
None.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled "Management" and "Disclosure of Filings by Insiders" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement") to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than April 30, 1997.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled "Executive Compensation" in the Proxy Statement. Nothing in this report shall be construed to incorporate by reference the Board Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation or the Performance Graph which are contained in the Proxy Statement, which are expressly not incorporated herein.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled "Certain Relationships and Other Transactions" in the Proxy Statement.
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS
The terms defined in this section are used throughout this report.
Acreage held by production. Acreage covered by an oil and gas lease which has a producing well on it, or which is pooled with a lease or leases having one or more producing wells on them, so the lease is maintained in effect for the duration of such production.
Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
Bcf. Billion cubic feet (of gas).
Bcfe. Billion cubic feet (of gas) equivalent.
Behind-pipe reserves. Proved reserves in a formation in which production casing has already been set in the wellbore, but from which production has not commenced.
Btu. British thermal unit.
Commingle. The combining of production from more than one zone in the same well to produce from multiple zones at the same time.
Development location. A location on which a development well can be drilled.
Development well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
Drilling locations. A site on which a well can be drilled consistent with local spacing rules for the purpose of recovering possible, probable or proved reserves.
Dry well. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Exploitation. The conduct of a drilling or recompletion operation intended to recover reserves from a formation known to be productive in the area or on trend with existing production but not classifiable as proved.
Exploratory well. A well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
Farmout. An assignment of an interest in a drilling location and related acreage conditional upon the drilling of a well on that location.
Gross acres. An acre in which a working interest is owned.
Gross well. A well in which a working interest is owned.
MBbl. One thousand barrels of crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MBtu. One thousand Btus.
Mcf. One thousand cubic feet (of gas).
Mcfe. One thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. In reference to crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons, equivalents are determined using the ratio of one Bbl of crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbon to 6 Mcf of gas.
MMBbl. One million barrels of crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MMBtu. One million Btus.
MMcf. One million cubic feet.
MMcfe. One million cubic feet (of gas) equivalent.
Net acres or net wells. The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
Overriding royalty interest. An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and gas production free of costs of production.
Present value of future net revenues. Estimated future net revenues discounted at a rate of ten percent per annum.
Productive well. A well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production.
Proved developed reserves. Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved reserves. The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Proved undeveloped location. A site on which a development well can be drilled consistent with local spacing rules for the purpose of recovering proved reserves.
Proved undeveloped reserves. Reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Recompletion. The completion for production of an existing wellbore in another formation from that in which the well has previously been completed.
Undeveloped acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Working interest. The operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production.
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
(a)(1) and (a)(2) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules
PAGE
Report of Independent Public Accountants . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 . . .
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. . . . .
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . .
All other schedules are omitted because the required information is not applicable or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule or because the information required is included in the Combined Financial Statements and Notes thereto.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Basin Exploration, Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Basin Exploration, Inc., and subsidiaries, as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flow for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated finan- cial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Basin Exploration, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Denver, Colorado, February 14, 1997.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS--(Continued)
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW--(CONTINUED)
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES ------------------------------------------
Organization and Operations -- The consolidated financial --------------------------- statements include the financial statements of Basin Exploration, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries,(collectively referred to as "Basin" or the "Company"). Basin, as operator of jointly owned oil and gas properties, sells a significant amount of such production to certain major customers (see Note 9), and pays vendors for oil and gas services. Joint interest receivables are subject to collection under terms of operating agreements which generally provide lien rights.
The accompanying financial statements present the operations of the Company on a consolidated basis. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts reported in previous years to conform to 1996 presentation.
Cash Equivalents -- Cash equivalents are comprised of highly ---------------- liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less. The total carrying amount of cash and equivalents approximates the fair value of such instruments.
Oil and Gas Properties -- The Company follows the full cost ---------------------- method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, all costs associated with the development, exploration and acquisition of oil and gas properties are capitalized in the Company's one cost center (full cost pool), which is the continental United States including the Gulf of Mexico. Payroll and other internal costs capitalized include salaries and related fringe benefits paid to employees directly engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas properties as well as all other directly identifiable, internal costs associated with these activities. Payroll and other internal costs associated with production operations and general corporate activities are expensed in the period incurred. Future development, site restoration, dismantlement and abandonment costs, net of salvage values, are estimated on a property-by- property basis based on prevailing prices and are amortized to expense, along with the capitalized costs discussed above, using the unit-of-production method based upon actual production and estimates of proved reserve quantities. Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization is recorded on the balance sheet as a reduction to property, plant and equipment costs. Proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties are credited to the full cost pool with no gain or loss recognized unless such adjustments would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves of oil and gas.
If capitalized costs, net of amortization and related deferred taxes, exceed the full cost ceiling, the excess would be expensed in the period such excess occurs. The full cost ceiling includes an estimate of the discounted value of future net revenues attributable to proven reserves, using various assumptions and parameters consistent with promulgations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The full cost ceiling may be particularly sensitive to changes in prevailing oil and gas sales prices or forecast production rates. The Company recognized $26,500,000 of such impairment at September 30, 1995.
The Company invests in unevaluated oil and gas properties and related assets for the purpose of future exploration for proved reserves. The costs of such assets are included in unproved oil and gas properties at the lower of cost or estimated fair market value.
Inventory -- Inventory of lease and well equipment is stated --------- at the lower of cost or market determined using the specific identification method.
Furniture and Equipment -- Furniture and equipment is ----------------------- depreciated over estimated useful lives of five to seven years. Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
Income Taxes -- The Company computes income taxes in ------------ accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." SFAS 109 requires an asset and liability approach which results in the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of those assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 also requires the recording of a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Hedging Activities -- The Company periodically enters into ------------------ agreements with third parties to hedge against the effects of fluctuations in future oil and gas prices. Gains or losses on such agreements are deferred and recognized as oil and gas revenue when the hedged production occurs.
At December 31, 1996, the Company was a party to a crude oil swap agreement and a crude oil collar arrangement, each with a contract volume of 10,000 barrels per month through December 31, 1997. The swap agreement provides for the cash settlement of the differential between the $18.32 per barrel contract price and the average closing NYMEX crude oil price during each month. The collar arrangement provides for the cash settlement of the differential between the monthly average closing NYMEX price and the contract floor of $19.50 per barrel or the contract ceiling of $24.35 per barrel, if the monthly average closing NYMEX price falls outside of the range defined by such contract floor and contract ceiling. In accordance with SFAS 107, "Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments," the Company has estimated the fair value of its hedging arrangements utilizing the NYMEX crude oil strip at December 31, 1996. While it is not the Company's intention to terminate either of the arrangements, it is estimated that the Company would have been required to pay approximately $525,000 to terminate the arrangements on December 31, 1996. As of February 12, 1997, the estimated cost to terminate such arrangements was approximately $325,000, inclusive of the actual cost of contract settlements through that date. Due to the volatility of crude oil prices, the fair market value may not be representative of the actual gain or loss that will be realized by the Company in 1997.
The Company recognized a reduction in oil revenue of $480,000, $115,000 and $95,000 under hedging agreements in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Company recognized a reduction in gas revenue of $206,000 under hedging agreements in 1994.
Earnings (Loss) Per Share -- Earnings (loss) per share have ------------------------- been computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. The impact of dilutive common stock equivalents on earnings (loss) per share was immaterial.
(2) RESTRICTED CASH ---------------
Well Plugging -- The Company was required under a certain ------------- farmout agreement to deposit in an escrow account amounts for future plugging and abandonment costs beyond a one-year time period. The total cash held in escrow at December 31, 1995, was $578,000. Such escrow account was closed and the funds were released to the Company in November 1996.
(3) ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES OF OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES -------------------------------------------------------
In February 1996, the Company entered into agreements pursuant to which it sold all of its assets in the D-J Basin in two transactions closed in March and June 1996, for an aggregate sales price of $123,500,000, effective January 1, 1996. Combined, these transactions resulted in Basin selling its interests in approximately two-thirds of its producing wells and 70% of its proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1995. Because the second transaction constituted the sale of a significant portion of the Company's total oil and gas reserves which would significantly alter the relationship between the Company's capitalized costs and its proved reserves, net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties were allocated between the reserves sold and retained based upon their estimated relative reserve quantities as of June 7, 1996 and a resulting gain of approximately $22,500,000 was recognized. A portion of the proceeds from the sales was used to payoff all outstanding bank debt and residual proceeds, net of transaction costs, were invested in short-term interest bearing cash equivalents. Revenue and expenses associated with the sold properties were included in the Company's results of operations through the respective closing dates.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
In November 1994 the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of Sterling Energy Corp. ("Sterling") for aggregate consideration of approximately $15.4 million consisting of approximately $10.1 million in cash, the assumption of $3.6 million of net liabilities, warrants to purchase 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $14.00 valued at $1.5 million, and $.2 million in transaction expenses. The acquisition included producing and non-producing oil and gas properties and undeveloped acreage located in the Scott and Draw fields in Converse County, Wyoming and in the Tohonadla field in San Juan County, Utah, as well as a gas processing plant located in Wyoming. The acquisition was funded partially with an increased revolving credit facility. The Company accounted for the Sterling acquisition using purchase accounting and began consolidating the results as of the December 1994 close date.
(4) LONG-TERM DEBT --------------
On August 6, 1996, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with its existing bank group. The initial borrowing base was set at $25,000,000 and is scheduled to be determined as of April 30, 1997 for the following six month period. The Credit Agreement provides for the interest rate on borrowings to be determined based on the prime rate or LIBOR, at the Company's election. A varying spread above the prime rate ranging from 0% to 0.5% and over LIBOR ranging from 0.625% to 1.25% will be applied based upon the Company's applicable debt- to-capitalization ratio. The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings to be revolving loans until August 1, 1999, at which time the outstanding balance is scheduled to convert to a four year amortizing term loan. The Credit Agreement contains various covenants, including ones that could limit the Company's ability to incur other debt, dispose of assets, pay dividends or repurchase stock. The note may be secured by the Company's oil and gas properties in certain circumstances, at the election of the lending banks. There were no borrowings outstanding under the facility at December 31, 1996.
Effective May 31, 1995, in order to improve management of interest rate risk, Basin entered into an interest rate swap agreement. Under the agreement, the Company fixed the LIBOR reference rate on a notional amount of $50 million at 6 percent per annum through May 31, 1996.
Debt is payable as follows:
(5) BENEFIT PLANS -------------
401(k) Savings -- The Company has a 401(k) profit sharing -------------- plan (the "Plan"). Eligible employees may make voluntary contributions to the Plan, which may be matched by the Company, at its discretion, up to 6 percent of the employee's eligible compensation. The Company has historically matched the first three percent of employees' eligible compensation that is contributed under the Plan. The amount of employee contributions is limited as specified in the Plan. The Company may, at its discretion, make additional contributions to the Plan. The Company expensed $96,000, $195,000, and $261,000, with respect to the Plan for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
Stock Plan -- Under the Company's Employees' Equity ---------- Incentive Plan and Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan, officers, key employees, consultants and directors of the Company are eligible to receive incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options and restricted stock. At December 31, 1996, a total of approximately 1,365,000 shares were available for grant under the plans. Shares granted generally vest over three to four years, and expire after ten years. A total of 684,000 shares of the Company's common stock are subject to such plans as of December 31, 1996, including 35,000 unvested shares of restricted stock and 649,000 outstanding stock options.
The following table summarizes the changes in stock options:
At December 31, 1996, the weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining life for options outstanding was $6.55 per share and 8.3 years, respectively. Additional information regarding the outstanding options at December 31, 1996, is as follows.
In connection with its initial public offering ("IPO") in 1992, the Company granted options to two officers to purchase 100,000 shares each of the Company's common stock at a price substantially below the IPO price of $9.50 per share. The Company recognized compensation expense related to these options of approximately $97,000 and $233,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
The Company granted 25,000, 32,000, and 25,000 shares of restricted stock during 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Related compensation expense was recognized in the amounts of approximately $98,000, $205,000, and $121,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. Cumulatively through December 31, 1996, 35,000 shares of restricted stock remained subject to forfeiture, 48,000 shares of restricted stock had been forfeited and 42,000 shares were no longer subject to restriction.
In connection with the Sterling acquisition, the Company issued warrants to purchase 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $14.00 per share. Such warrants became exercisable on October 13, 1994 and have an expiration date of December 31, 1999.
In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS 123 was effective for 1996 and recommends a fair value based method of accounting for employee stock compensation, including stock options. However, companies may choose to account for stock compensation using the intrinsic value based method as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and provide pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share as if the fair value based method had been applied. The Company has elected to continue to account for stock compensation using the intrinsic value based method.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS --(CONTINUED)
Had the Company elected to follow SFAS 123, the fair value of each option grant would have been estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Sholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 1996 and 1995: risk free interest rate of 6.75%; expected dividend yield of 0%; expected life of 5 years; and expected volatility of 55%. Based upon these assumptions, the weighted average fair value of options granted during 1996 and 1995 was $2.73 and $2.96 per share, respectively. SFAS 123 would have had no significant impact on reported operating results for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.
(6) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES -----------------------------
Leases -- The Company is the primary obligor under various ------ noncancelable office space operating lease arrangements. The Company also subleases certain office space to and from third parties under various noncancellable lease arrangements. The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under these leases:
Payments related to these leases obligations were approximately $707,000, $710,000, and $435,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
Legal Proceedings -- The Company, from time to time, is ----------------- involved in various legal and administrative proceedings and claims of various types which arise in the ordinary course of its business. While any litigation contains an element of uncertainty, in the opinion of management, none of these actions, either individually or in the aggregate will have a material adverse effect on results the Company's financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.
(7) INCOME TAXES ------------
The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are as follows:
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
Reconciliations of income tax provisions (benefit) computed at the federal statutory rate with income tax provisions recorded by the Company for each of the past three years are as follows:
The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
As of December 31, 1996, the Company has alternative minimum tax credit carry forwards for income tax purposes of approximately $1,475,000 which may be utilized to reduce future tax liability of the Company. These carry forwards have no expiration date.
(8) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS --------------------------
Prior to the IPO, the Company advanced $559,000 to its principal stockholder at an annual interest rate of 9 percent. The note was amended in 1996 and the balance is now due in December 1997 with interest only payments due quarterly.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
(9) OIL AND GAS ACTIVITIES ----------------------
The Company's oil and gas operations are conducted in the United States. Certain information concerning these activities follows:
Major Purchasers -- The following parties purchased ten ---------------- percent or more of the Company's oil and gas production.
Purchaser Year ended December 31, 1996 1995 1994 -------------------------------------------------------
PanEnergy 43% 62% 77% Eighty-Eight Oil Company 26% 16% (a)
(a) less than ten percent
Section 29 Tax Credits -- The Company received $1.5 million ---------------------- and $3 million in 1995 and 1994 respectively, for Section 29 tax credits associated with gas production from various oil and gas properties of the Company. Such proceeds were recorded as unearned income and recognized as incremental gas revenues as the gas was produced and the credits earned. The Company recognized approximately $2,857,000 and $2,123,000 of additional gas revenue during the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively, related to the amortization of this unearned income.
Costs Incurred -- Costs incurred in oil and gas operations -------------- and related depreciation, depletion and amortization per equivalent unit-of-production are as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 1996 1995 1994 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- (in thousands)
Property acquisition- Unproved $ 5,056/1/ $ 2,429 $ 5,275 Proved 3,067 3,889 16,751 Exploration costs 10,250 2,003 2,361 Development costs 4,472 7,427 42,113 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Gross expenditures $ 22,845 $ 15,748 $ 66,500 ======================================================================
Depletion per one thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent $ 0.82 $ 0.84 $ 0.77 ======================================================================
/1/ Excludes $4,914,000 of costs recouped through the resale of partial interests in prospects to industry partners.
Costs Not Being Amortized -- Oil and gas property costs not ------------------------- being amortized at December 31, 1996, consisted of $9,822,000 of leasehold and seismic costs, of which $9,058,000, $488,000 and $276,000 were incurred in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Company anticipates that substantially all unevaluated costs will be classified as evaluated costs within the next three years.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS RESERVE INFORMATION - ------------------------------------------------------
The determination of oil and gas reserves is complex and highly interpretive. Assumptions used to estimate reserve information may significantly increase or decrease such reserves in future periods. The estimates of reserves are subject to continuing changes and, therefore, an accurate determination of reserves may not be possible for many years because of the time needed for development, drilling, testing and studies of the reservoirs. The following unaudited table, based upon estimates of onshore reserves prepared by the Company's engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 and estimates of offshore reserves prepared by Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers at December 31, 1996, sets forth the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves for the Company and the changes in total proved reserves as of December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994. All such reserves are located in the United States.
ANALYSES OF CHANGES IN PROVED RESERVES - --------------------------------------
STANDARDIZED MEASURE - --------------------
The unaudited standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to proved oil and gas reserves are as follows:
December 31, 1996 1995 1994 - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- (in thousands)
Future production revenues $ 289,105 $ 439,415 $ 505,636 Future production costs (108,522) (155,087) (163,244) Future development costs (20,583) (45,907) (49,293) Future income taxes (39,101) (25,644) (45,252) - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Future net cash flows 120,899 212,777 247,847 Discount (57,593) (95,529) (106,495) - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows/1/ $ 63,306 $ 117,248 $ 141,352 ======================================================================
/1/ Total future net cash flows before income taxes discounted at 10% per annum are $83,656,000, $129,068,000 and $162,858,000 as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS --(CONTINUED)
The estimate of future income taxes is based on the future net cash flows from proved reserves adjusted for the tax basis of the oil and gas properties but without consideration of general and administrative and interest expenses. For standardized measure purposes the Company estimates future income taxes using the "year-by- year" method. For ceiling test purposes the Company estimates future income taxes using the "short-cut" method.
A summary of changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is as follows:
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projected future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, prices, future production levels and costs, that may not prove correct over time. Predictions of future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Oil and gas prices have fluctuated widely in recent years. The calculated weighted average sales prices utilized for the purposes of estimating the Company's proved reserves and future net revenue were and $25.35 per barrel of oil and $3.02 per Mcf of gas at December 31, 1996, $18.64 per barrel of oil and $1.56 per Mcf of gas at December 31, 1995 and $16.44 per barrel of oil and $1.63 per Mcf of gas at December 31, 1994.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS --(CONTINUED)
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA - ----------------------------------------------- (in thousands except per share amounts)(unaudited)
(a)(3) Exhibits
EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS ------- -----------------------
2.1 -- Agreement and Plan of Merger between Sterling Energy Corporation, Basin Energy, Inc. and Basin Exploration, Inc. dated October 13, 1994/7/ 2.2 -- Plan of Merger between Basin Sterling, Inc. and Basin Exploration, Inc. dated November 22, 1994/8/ 2.3 -- Plan of Merger between Basin Operating Company and Basin Exploration, Inc. dated December 14, 1994/8/ 3.1 -- Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Basin./2/ 3.2 -- Restated Bylaws of Basin./2/ 4.1 -- Common Stock Certificate of Basin./2/ 10.1 -- Equity Incentive Plan as amended June 6, 1996./1/ 10.2 -- Directors' Stock Option Plan as amended June 6, 1996./1/ 10.3 -- Key Employee Participation Plan./2/ 10.4 -- Employment Agreement dated March 31, 1992 by and between Basin and Michael S. Smith./3/ 10.5 -- Gulf Coast Geoscientist Overriding Royalty Interest Plan dated November 30, 1995./10/ 10.6 -- Form of Rights Agreement dated as of February 24, 1996, between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Corporate Stock Transfer, Inc. as Rights Agent./9/ 10.7 -- Performance Shares Plan approved February 4, 1997./1/ 10.8 -- Change of Control Employment Agreement dated October 13, 1995 between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Howard L. Boigon./10/ 10.9 -- Employment Agreement dated August 28, 1995 between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Samuel D. Winegrad./10/ 10.10 -- Employment Agreement dated June 28, 1995 between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Neil L. Stenbuck./10/ 10.11 -- Employment Agreement dated November 10, 1995 between Basin Exploration, Inc. and David A. Pustka./10/ 10.12 -- Employment Agreement dated February 23, 1996 between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Thomas J. Corley./1/ 10.13 -- Assignment and Assumption of Lease dated December 18, 1995 by and between Team, Inc., as original Tenant, Basin Exploration, Inc., as New Tenant, and FC Tower Property Partners, L.P., as Landlord./9/ 10.14 -- First Supplement to Amended Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment, Financing Statement and Fixture Filing dated May 8, 1995 by and between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Basin Gas Ltd. to NationsBank of Texas, N.A., as successor collateral agent for the benefit of Colorado National Bank, Union Bank and NationsBank of Texas, N.A./8/ 10.15 -- Second Supplement to Amended Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment, Financing Statement and Fixture Filing dated May 8, 1995 by and between Basin Exploration, Inc., and Basin Gas Ltd. to NationsBank of Texas, N.A. in its capacity as the successor collateral agent for the benefit of Colorado National Bank, Union Bank and NationsBank of Texas, N.A./10/ 10.16 -- Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Assets (Monetization) dated February 24, 1996 by and between Basin Exploration, Inc., HS Resources, Inc. and Orion Acquisition, Inc./7/ 10.17 -- Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Assets (Wattenberg), dated February 24, 1996 by and between Basin Exploration, Inc., HS Resources, Inc. and Orion Acquisition, Inc./7/ 10.18 -- Lease of Office Space dated September 25, 1992, between Brookfield Republic Inc. and Basin Operating Company, as amended/4/* 10.19 -- First Lease of Additional Office Space dated as of December 1, 1994, between Brookfield Republic, Inc. and Basin Operating Company./6/* 10.20 -- Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated August 6, 1996 between the Company and Colorado National Bank, Union Bank of California, N.A. and NationsBank of Texas, N.A./11/ 10.21 -- Purchase and Sale Agreement dated February 13, 1997, between Hall-Houston Oil Company et al as Sellers and Basin Exploration, Inc. as Buyer./1/** 21 -- Subsidiaries./1/ 23.1 -- Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP/1/ 23.2 -- Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc./1/ 23.3 -- Consent of Ryder Scott Company/1/ 27 -- Financial Data Schedule./1/
- ----------------
/1/ Filed herewith.
/2/ Filed as an Exhibit to Basin's Registration Statement on Form S-1 as filed on March 17, 1992, Registration No. 33-46486, and incorporated herein by reference.
/3/ Filed as an Exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to Basin's Registration Statement on Form S-1 as filed on April 21, 1992, Registration No. 33-46486, and incorporated herein by reference.
/4/ Filed as an Exhibit to Basin's Registration Statement on Form S-1 as filed on October 25, 1993, Registration No. 33-70802, and incorporated herein by reference.
/5/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 8-K filed on December 10, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.
/6/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 10-K/A-1 filed on June 26, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.
/7/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 8-K filed on March 6, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
/8/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 10-K filed on March 28, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference.
/9/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 8-K filed on February 26, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
/10/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 10-K filed on March 28, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
/11/ Filed as an Exhibit to Form 10-Q filed on August 14, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
* Confidential treatment has been granted for portions of these Exhibits.
** Confidential treatment has been requested for portions of this Exhibit.
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
None
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
BASIN EXPLORATION, INC.
By: /s/ MICHAEL S. SMITH Date: March 17, 1997 ------------------------------------- Michael S. Smith President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
EXHIBIT INDEX
EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS PAGE NO. - ------- ----------------------- --------
10.1 -- Equity Incentive Plan as amended June 6, 1996. 71
10.2 -- Directors' Stock Option Plan as amended June 6, 1996. 90
10.7 -- Performance Shares Plan approved February 4, 1997. 98
10.12 -- Employment Agreement dated February 23, 1996 between Basin Exploration, Inc. and Thomas J. Corley. 107
10.21 -- Purchase and Sale Agreement dated February 13, 1997, between Hall-Houston Oil Company et al as Sellers and Basin Exploration, Inc. as Buyer. 118
21 -- Subsidiaries 157
23.1 -- Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP 158
23.2 -- Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. 159
23.3 -- Consent of Ryder Scott Company 160
27 -- Financial Data Schedule 161