ITEM 2: DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
MINERAL RIDGE MINE
PROPERTY AND OWNERSHIP
The Mineral Ridge properties are located near the town of Silver Peak, approximately 35 miles (56.35 kilometers) southwest of Tonopah, in Esmeralda County, Nevada. The 3,130 acre (1,266 hectares) land package consists of a total of 195 claims on four contiguous parcels of land in Esmeralda County (collectively referred to as the "Mineral Ridge Mine"): the Mineral Ridge mine site (the "Original Property"), the Blair town site, the Silver Peak mill site adjacent to the town of Silver Peak and approximately 200 acres (80 hectares) of deeded land west of the mine site.
The Company acquired its interest in the Original Property in April 1993, pursuant to an agreement with Mary Mining Company, Inc., a Florida corporation ("MMC"), and in August 1995, acquired an option from BenguetCorp. USA, Inc. ("BUSA") on other mining properties (the "Oromonte Claims") situated contiguous to the Original Property. The Company's interest in the Mineral Ridge Mine consists of 175 claims of which 54 are patented. The Company's undivided 100% interest is subject to certain royalty obligations outlined below.
LOCATION, CLIMATE AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Mineral Ridge Mine is located about four miles (six kilometers) northwest of the town of Silver Peak in the Silver Peak (Mineral Ridge) Mining District in Esmeralda County, Nevada. The local topography is rugged with ephemeral drainage. Access to the mine from Silver Peak is two miles (three kilometers) north via paved SR265 to the Mineral Ridge East Access Road which is then followed about four miles (six kilometers) west to the mine site.
The terrain throughout most of the mineralized area is hilly to steep. Elevations range from 5,800 to 7,400 feet (1,740 - 2,220 meters) in the mine area. Climate is typical of the Great Basin region with hot dry summers and cool dry winters. Consequently, open-pit mining and heap-leaching will be carried out year round.
Modest amenities including living quarters, an elementary school, library, swimming pool and small store are found in Silver Peak and the town is suitable for housing a small work force.
PROPERTY HISTORY
The Mineral Ridge area has been intermittently mined, mostly by underground methods, since gold was first discovered there in the early 1860s. Between 1865 and 1870 a ten-stamp and later a thirty-stamp mill were operated. A 100-stamp mill was installed in the early 1900s, and this was followed by an extensive period of mining and construction from 1906 to 1918. During that time, the town of Blair was established and over 1.2 million tons of ore were mined and 280,000 ounces of gold were produced.
Black Mammoth Consolidated Mining Company ("BMCMC") took over parts of the Mary/Drinkwater mine in the late 1920s and built a 50-ton-per-day mill. BMCMC was joined by E.L. Cord in 1935 who was instrumental in installing a 240-300 ton-per-day mill near the Mary portal in 1937. The mine was the top Nevada gold producer in 1938 and continued until 1942 when the Second World War (Gold Order L-208) ended production.
A modest amount of exploration, but no production, occurred between 1973 and 1989 when Zephyr Resources, Inc. and later Homestead Minerals Corp. initiated production from an open-pit, hauling the ore 17 miles (27.3 kilometers) to Sunshine Mining Company's 16-1 Mill. Production ceased in December 1992.
Overall historical production is estimated at 573,000 ounces of gold from about 3 million tons of ore, with approximately 460,000 ounces produced prior to 1942.
MINERAL RIDGE ACQUISITIONS
On April 16, 1993, the Company entered into a letter agreement with MMC as trustee for and on behalf of certain beneficiaries under a land trust (the "Mary Option"), under which the Company was granted the option to enter into a lease for the Original Property located in Esmeralda County, Nevada. The Mary Option granted to the Company the right to enter upon the Original Property for the purposes of investigation, inspection, and examination of the physical and environmental conditions of the property. On July 15, 1993, the Company exercised the Mary Option and entered into a lease for a minimum term of five years, which also granted the Company the right to purchase the Original Property for a nominal sum, subject to certain royalty
obligations outlined below. On May 15, 1996, the Company exercised such right to purchase for $1.00. Under the terms of the letter agreement, the Company paid $210,000 and is required to pay minimum advance royalties which will be credited cumulatively against the production royalty payments payable by the Company.
On each anniversary of the effective date of the lease, being July 15, minimum advance royalty payments are required to be made (initially $30,000 and increasing by $5,000 annually) until the sixth anniversary. On each anniversary thereafter, advance royalties will be $60,000 annually.
Any future production royalties payable will be based on a percentage of the NSR from production. If the price of gold per troy ounce is less than or equal to $500, the royalty will be 4.0% of the NSR; if the price of gold is greater than $500 to less than or equal to $800 the royalty will be 5.0% of the NSR; and if the price of gold is more than $800, the royalty will be 6.0% of the NSR. The above royalty applies to approximately 88% of the mineable reserves of the Mineral Ridge Mine.
Upon exercise of the Mary Option by the Company, it committed to pay the US federal annual mining claim rental fee (currently $100 per unpatented claim) on or before August 31, of each year.
On August 31, 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with BUSA under which the Company was granted an option to purchase the Oromonte Claims and assumed BUSA's obligations under the related property purchase agreements. The Company paid BUSA $1.2 million.
BUSA assigned to the Company its rights under two separate option to purchase agreements pertaining to the patented Oromonte Claims in the Oromonte area. The Company owns the claims subject to the following royalty payments:
The only portion of mineable reserve affected by the above royalty, which reserve represents approximately 6% of the mineable reserves of the Mineral Ridge Mine, is in the Gordon-Brodie Pit.
The remaining 6% of the mineable reserves do not have any royalty associated with them.
GEOLOGY
The Mineral Ridge gold deposits are detachment-fault hosted mesothermal quartz vein and replacement deposits localized on the crest and flanks of an early Tertiary metamorphic core complex. Mineral Ridge is a northwest tending, doubly plunging, antiformal uplift of intermediate to felsic granitic rocks, varying from granodiorite to alaskite; capped by a metamorphic carapace of Precambrian metasediments which host the gold deposits. The core granite exhibits foliation and lineation parallel to the contact with the overlying metasediments, with the deformation extending up to one hundred feet into the upper portion of the intrusive. The Precambrian metasediments are comprised of the Wyman Formation, a sequence of thin-bedded mica schist, calc-silicate rocks and calcite marble after original interlayered limestone and shale paleolith. The Wyman Formation is overlain in low-angle fault contact by the Reed Dolomite, which is in turn covered by Cambrian sediments. The core granite and sediments are cut by several ages of dikes and sills ranging in composition from granite pegmatite to diabase, with the mafic varieties often closely associated with the gold mineralization.
Precious metal mineralization at Mineral Ridge is found in three types of deposits, with the most important styles being lenticular quartz bodies and manto replacements in the Wyman Formation limestone/marble beds. The quartz veins occur within the sheared contact zone between the core granite and Wyman Formation, usually in zones of dilation located on the eastern flank of anticlinal folds and where more brittle beds or intrusive rocks have been fractured and mineralized. The Mary Limestone, a blue-gray, finely crystalline marble containing boudins and augen of quartz, calcite and granitic to felsic intrusives within intensely folded groundmass, is the host for silicic replacement ore formed adjacent to the veins. Up to 5% disseminated pyrite and lesser galena and sphalerite occurs in the Mary Limestone ore, with replacement of the limestone by silica, chlorite and calcite. The ore bodies can occur as a single lens or as a stack of lenses separated by mylonite and/or intrusive sills, with an aggregate thickness of up to one hundred and forty feet of mineable ore.
The ore zones on Mineral Ridge occur as north-south to north-west trending lenses of mineralization which rake at a shallow angle to the dip of the formations and structural contacts. The most favorable orientation for forming an ore shoot includes the steeply dipping east flank of anticlinal folds and the intersection of north-south strike faults of reverse displacement. The ore zones are cut by east-west to north-east trending high angle post-mineral faults of minor vertical displacement.
The principal gold-bearing mineralization at Mineral Ridge consists of milky to sugary vein quartz and silicic breccias comprising multiple stages of deposition and brecciation, containing variable amounts of sulfides and their oxidation products. The sulfides include, in decreasing order of occurrence: pyrite, galena, sphalerite and minor chalcopyrite and arsenopyrite. Gold grades are highest in association with galena, although the gold occurs as distinct grains within the quartz, not necessarily in contact with the sulfides. Polished section studies have shown the gold to be mostly very fine grained (5-100 microns) and often associated with iron oxides after pyrite. Coarser gold of probable late stage deposition (supergene?) has been found coating fractures and filling vugs in oxidized sulfides. The silver to gold ratio for the deposits is about two to one. Dore production averages about 65% Au and 35% Ag in the bullion.
FEASIBILITY STUDY
Behre Dolbear was retained by the Company during August 1995, to prepare a final feasibility study on the Mineral Ridge Mine. As part of its assignment, Behre Dolbear critically reviewed all technical work undertaken by consultant firms contributing to the feasibility study. The technical and economic parameters underlying the study were estimated by Behre Dolbear to have an accuracy of plus/minus 15%, with the exception of the processing parameters which were estimated to have an accuracy of plus/minus 10%.
The economic analysis prepared by Behre Dolbear assumed that the construction of the Mineral Ridge Mine would be financed with funds raised entirely with equity. Based upon the terms of the Mine Debt Financing Facility, the Company estimates its debt service costs to be approximately $4.20 per ounce.
The feasibility study established ore reserves of the project contained in four deposits and a low-grade ore stockpile. The proven and probable mineable ore reserve is approximately 5.2 million tons averaging 0.068 ounces gold per ton of ore at an average internal cut-off grade of 0.024 ounces gold per ton of ore based on a gold price of $385 per ounce. Life-of-mine waste-to-ore ratio is 4.3 to 1. The reserve is estimated to yield 284,668 saleable (recoverable) ounces of gold over a 5 1/2 year mining life and an additional 1 1/2 year continued leaching period.
The following table sets out the mineable ore reserves of the Mineral Ridge Mine as calculated by Behre Dolbear:
The life-of-mine direct cash operating costs (before taxes, royalties, amortization, depreciation and debt service) were estimated in the Parrish Report to be $235 per ounce and total operating costs (including debt service costs) were estimated to be $355 per ounce.
The life-of-mine, cumulative project cash flow of $13.5 million is set out in the Parrish Report. This cash flow was based on an economic analysis using constant dollars, applying no leveraging, viewing the project on a stand-alone basis. The estimates in the Parrish Report, assuming cash flows are realized at year end, no change in current taxation structure and a gold price averaging $407 per ounce for the 120,000 ounces hedged under the Company's hedging line, and $385 per ounce for the balance of production, indicated an internal rate-of-return of 12% after all applicable taxes. Price, ore reserve grade, and gold recovery all have about the same and greatest sensitivity on the projected cash flow.
Since the date of the calculation of the internal rate of return, gold prices have dropped significantly and, in response, the Company has revised its mining plan which will impact the estimated cost of production. As a result, the assumptions relating to the costs of gold production and to the revenue generated by the sale of gold which underly the calculation of the internal rate of return are no longer accurate. If gold prices remain at current levels, the actual internal rate of return realized by the Company could be significantly lower than 12% or even negative.
PERMITTING
Work on all significant permits was initiated in 1995. The Plan of Operations and Reclamation Plan were key to acquiring these permits and both were submitted to the United States Bureau of Land Management (the "BLM") in January 1996. On July 26, 1996, the BLM issued a Finding of No Significant Impact and Decision Record (the "Record of Decision") which allowed the Company to commence construction of the Mineral Ridge Mine.
In early October 1996, the Mineral Ridge Mine received a Reclamation Permit and posted an initial reclamation bond in the amount of $1.6 million clearing the way to commence construction. Since that time, all additional permits required from the State of Nevada in order to commence mining operations have been obtained.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT
Exploration at Mineral Ridge in 1997 consisted of a two phase program, with the first stage designed to increase definition of the Mary, Brodie and Upper Drinkwater deposits, while the second part tested the down-dip, underground potential of the Mary and Custer Shaft targets. The 1997 program included 118 reverse circulation drill holes for a total of 22,140 feet of drilling. An additional 19 rotary percussion holes were drilled using the IR DM45 blasthole drill. The mine reserves were updated in late 1997 using the new data obtained in the drilling program, incorporated into a geologically constrained mineralization model. Compilation of historic surface and underground geology, structure and assay information is in progress to locate additional reserves which may be developed by surface and underground mining methods. An additional 22 lode claims were located to extend coverage of the property to almost three line miles of strike on the mineralized contact.
CURRENT STATUS
Operations at the Mineral Ridge Mine consist of open-pit mining, four-stage crushing, agglomeration, heaping onto a permanent leach pad, and leaching and recovery by conventional cyanide and carbon adsorption methods. Mining is by contractor. Crushing is to 100% minus 6 mesh [approximately 1/8 inches (0.3 centimeters)]. The estimated gold recovery is 80.8% realized in 120 days after heaping in 20 feet (6.1 meters) lifts to a total height of 120 feet (36.6 meters).
In August 1996, a fixed price, turnkey contract was awarded to Roberts and Schaefer Company of Salt Lake City, Utah, for Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) of the Mineral Ridge Mine processing and other facilities. Construction proceeded according to schedule and mechanical completion was achieved on May 29, 1997. Final completion and testing of the facility was achieved on August 7, 1997.
Subject to the availability of funding, additional construction will be required in 1998 for leach pad expansion. This final expansion will more than double the available area for leaching.
A 69 kV powerline has been installed to the mine site by Sierra Pacific Power Company. Water for mining and processing is drawn from an 1,800 foot (540 meters) deep, well adjacent to the processing plant. Subject to the availability of funding, measures will be taken in 1998 to supplement the supply of water from an alternative water source.
The Company initiated mining operations at the Mineral Ridge Mine in the Gold Wedge and Drinkwater pits in October 1996, and ore was stockpiled in advance of process plant start-up. Mining in the Gold Wedge pits has been completed. Current active pits are the Drinkwater and the Gordon-Brodie. Contract mining of the Mineral Ridge Mine ore deposits was carried out by D.H. Blattner & Sons Inc., of Avon, Minnesota; but due to low gold prices, mining was temporarily suspended in November 1997.
A total of 4.6 million tons has been mined since mining began in October 1996. Of this total, 625,000 tons of ore has been mined at an average grade of 0.074 opt and hauled to the stockpile and 4.0 million tons of waste rock has been mined. Mining has taken place in the Drinkwater, Gold Wedge and Gordon-Brodie pits. In addition, ore has been hauled from the Low Grade stockpile.
The crushing plant is designed for a maximum production rate of approximately 230 tons per hour. The ADR plant is designed for solution flows of 600 gallons per minute. As designed, these facilities will be capable of handling the planned production rate of 2,700 tons per day, which, at the planned mine head grades, would result in the average annual production of 50,000 ounces of gold.
As of December 31, 1997, in excess of 500,000 tons of ore has been crushed and stacked on the leach pad at an average grade of 0.063 ounces per ton (2.1 grams per tonne). Initial gold production began in June 1997.
Because of declining gold prices, the reserves were reevaluated using a gold price of US$325 per ounce. This was performed in house by Mineral Ridge employees using MEDSYSTEM software. The following table summarizes the reserves on December 31, 1997, after mining in 1996 and 1997.
IVANHOE PROPERTY
OWNERSHIP, LOCATION AND CLIMATE
The Company owns a 25% interest in the Ivanhoe Property through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Touchstone Resources Company.
The Ivanhoe Property, which is approximately 50 miles northeast of Battle Mountain, Nevada, is located at the northwestern end of the Carlin Trend in an area between Little Antelope Creek on the south to the Midas Trough on the north. The property currently consists of 510 unpatented mining claims and covers approximately 9,231 acres. Access to the property is available either via an eleven mile road from Midas, a county road from Battle Mountain, or a road from the Dee Mine six miles southeast of the property.
The terrain is rolling to hilly with local areas of moderately rugged relief and steeply incised drainage. Elevations range from 5,400 feet to 6,250 feet in the project area. Temperatures are variable between winter lows of -30 F to summer highs in excess of 105 F. Normal field seasons extend from April through November and precipitation averages 8 to 10 inches annually with most occurring as snow in the winter and rain during May and June.
Newmont Explorations Limited ("Newmont") decreased the number of unpatented mining claims during 1995 after its decision to withdraw from the Ivanhoe Venture. The Hollister deposit, which includes the area in the Phase I development (the USX zone), represents an area of approximately one square mile. The Ivanhoe joint venture's interest in the property is by way of option agreements, mining leases, operating rights agreements and staked mining claims.
Pursuant to an agreement dated August 13, 1997, Great Basin Gold Inc. is earning up to a 75% interest in the property by incurring expenditures totaling $5 million.
PROPERTY HISTORY
Pursuant to an agreement dated January 19, 1987, the Company acquired from USX Corporation ("USX") an option to purchase a 100% interest in part of the Ivanhoe Property for a purchase price of $3,250,000. USX reserved a non-participating royalty equal to the difference between 5% of the net smelter returns from all minerals produced from the property and all royalties paid pursuant to the underlying mining leases. This royalty was assigned to Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation and Euro-Nevada Mining Corporation in March 1992.
Following the acquisition of USX's interest, the Company proceeded to increase its interest in the Ivanhoe Property through the staking of mining claims and the acquisition of mining leases and operating rights agreements with options to purchase the claims. The mining leases and operating rights agreements then acquired provided for annual advance minimum royalties that are fully creditable and recoverable against production royalties which range from 2.5% to 3.5% of net smelter returns from all minerals (with limited exceptions) produced from the mining claims.
On May 19, 1989, the Company and Galactic Resources Ltd. ("Galactic") signed definitive agreements, effective April 4, 1987, which established the terms and conditions of a joint venture for the exploration and development of the Ivanhoe Property. Galactic acquired a 50% interest in the Ivanhoe Property on March 1, 1990 in consideration of the issue of 750,000 Galactic shares (which were assigned a value of $5,540,000), the expending of a minimum of $4,000,000 for the completion of a feasibility program and report on the Hollister deposit and providing or arranging all financing required to develop and construct facilities to operate a mine on the Hollister deposit as recommended by the feasibility report. Construction of the Hollister Mine began in April 1990 and was completed in October 1990. Gold production recovered from the Hollister Mine and attributed to the Company for the years 1990 to June 1996 totaled 50,457 ounces. Mining ceased in May 1992 and production from residual leaching continued throughout the balance of 1992 to June 1996.
The Galactic/Cornucopia joint venture terminated upon completion of the sale of various interests in the Ivanhoe Property and assets to Newmont as described below.
IVANHOE VENTURE
The Company's indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Touchstone entered into a letter agreement dated March 26, 1992, with Newmont for the sale to Newmont of half of Touchstone's 50% interest in the assets of the Ivanhoe Property in consideration for $6,700,000 payable in cash on the closing date. At about the same time, Newmont also entered into an agreement with Ivanhoe Gold Company ("Ivanhoe"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Galactic, to acquire all of Ivanhoe's 50% interest in the assets of the Ivanhoe Property in consideration for $13,400,000, payable in cash on the closing date. Each of Ivanhoe and Touchstone negotiated their respective transactions at arm's length with Newmont and each other.
The sales transactions were completed on June 23, 1992, and accordingly Newmont acquired a 75% interest in the Ivanhoe Property, with Touchstone holding the remaining 25% interest. Touchstone and Newmont then entered into a mining venture agreement (the "Ivanhoe Venture") for further exploration and development of the Ivanhoe Property with Newmont being appointed as manager.
GEOLOGY
The Ivanhoe Property is located at the northwestern end of the Carlin Trend, a major, linear structural zone containing at least 15 major gold deposits. The gold mineralization in these deposits typically occurs as disseminations in Lower Paleozoic clastic and carbonate rocks above and below the Roberts Mountain Thrust. This regional structural "stacking" gives rise to the concept of upper and lower plate hosted deposits. At Ivanhoe, gold deposits occur in Tertiary volcanic rocks unconformably overlying the upper plate clastic rocks.
Compilation of regional geological mapping data and regional gravimetric surveys suggests the Ivanhoe Property straddles the axis of a northwest-trending, northwesterly plunging, basement anticline in the Paleozoic sequence known as the Tuscarora Mountains Anticline. The Hollister deposit appears to lie on the crest of this open, asymmetric fold along which many other Carlin Trend deposits occur.
Two episodes and styles of gold mineralization and alteration are recognized in the Ivanhoe district. The most important event producing the majority of gold and mercury mineralization is epithermal in character and occurs in the Tertiary (Miocene) volcanic sequence. This event, dated at about 15Ma in age, gave rise to the Hollister deposit and other volcanic-hosted prospects on the property. An earlier gold mineralization system of mesothermal character occurs in and around the zoned Hatter stock about 1.5 miles east of Hollister and is thought to be related to an earlier Eocene intrusive event.
The dominant alteration and gold mineralization signature on the Ivanhoe Property is the 15Ma Miocene event. The total Miocene fossil epithermal field covers an area greater than 50 square miles. Within the Hollister deposit area, gold mineralization occurs over an area 7,000 feet north-south by 4,000 feet east-west. Outside of Hollister, most Miocene alterations and mineralization occurs within the Silver Cloud - Quiver and Quiver - Gov/Fox structural corridors.
At Hollister, gold mineralization is stratabound, disseminated, oxide/sulfide, and hosted primarily in Miocene Lower Tuff and Andesite (Basalt). As estimated by Pincock, Allen & Holt, Inc. in 1990, an approximate 10 million ton proven and probable reserve grading 0.038 opt gold occurs in portions of the Clementine, Velvet and Butte zones within the Hollister deposit north of the USX pit. This reserve is treated as a resource in light of current gold prices and the dated nature of the Pincock, Allen and Holt, Inc. estimates. Higher grade mineralization occurs along the Valmy-lower Tuff contact, within the basal 80 feet of the Andesite (Basalt) and along fault structures and structural intersections. Sporadic, lower grade mineralization (LESS THAN 0.02 opt gold) occurs in the Upper Tuff. Significantly, subeconomic to economic gold mineralization also occurs in narrow (+10 feet) structural zones and quartz-pyrite veined Valmy Formation beneath the deposit.
Structure plays the dominant role in the localization and resulting geometry of gold mineralization at Hollister. For example, the primary ore control in the USX West Pit is a WNW trending fault which localized high grade mineralization in the lower Tuff. Other high grade pods are localized where this fault intersects N40 E trending faults. In the USX East Pit, higher grade mineralization is localized where N30 W and N50 E faults intersect in the center of the pit and where N30 E and N5 E faults intersect a major N65 E structure in the northeast part of the pit.
Outside the Hollister resource area, only subeconomic, minor, discontinuous disseminated mineralization has been found. Typical disseminated gold grades range from 0.002 to 0.01 opt gold and rarely exceed 0.02 opt gold. Structurally controlled mineralized zones outside Hollister contain higher grades (0.01 to 0.03 opt gold) especially where quartz-kaolinite alteration over-prints quartz-adularia alteration. To date, no potentially economic mineralization has been found outside of the Hollister deposit area.
MINING OPERATIONS
The Hollister Mine was a surface mine with two coalescing open pits in the USX zone with heap leach gold extraction and a carbon adsorption gold recovery plant located approximately one half mile from the operating pits. In addition, the mine site also included a waste dump, topsoil stockpiles, haul roads, office, laboratory, and a warehouse/shop facility. The project utilized conventional drilling and blasting techniques and material movement methods. The USX zone of the Hollister deposit was mined out and shut down in May 1992. Production from residual leaching continued from 1992 through to June 1996.
EXPLORATION
Exploration in 1991 and early 1992 was primarily directed at the Hatter intrusive complex with additional activity focused on the Quiver, GOV, Sheep Corral and Little Antelope Creek areas. During this period, drilling was completed in the Hollister, GOV and Hatter areas and various geochemical and geophysical surveys were completed throughout the property.
A total of 76 drill holes (34 "exploration" and 42 "development") amounting to 41,263 feet were completed in this 1991-1992 period including 8 holes aggregating 14,400 feet that were completed by March 1992. In the Hollister area, the drilling tested shallow oxide zones within the Tertiary volcanic sediments and deeper sulfide potential in the Palaeozoic basement rocks. Hollister drill holes which had significant impact included north A-45 holes which had intercepts of 340 feet of 0.038 opt gold and 281 feet of 0.032 opt gold and a Velvet hole which intercepted 142 feet of 0.067 opt gold. In the GOV area the drilling intercepted a previously unknown gold zone (0.003 to 0.014 opt gold) in quartz-pyrite stockwork that was 400 feet thick. A Hatter hole intersected 85 feet of fault breccia that graded 0.024 opt gold.
Other activities in 1991 and early 1992 included geological mapping and completion of a number of geochemical surveys in the Hatter, Craig, Little Antelope Creek, Quiver, SLB and GOV areas. Geophysical work included reprocessing of airborne magnetics and completion of controlled source audio-magnetotelluric (CSAMT), ground magnetic and IP surveys.
From the time exploration was resumed by the Ivanhoe Venture in mid-1992, the entire Ivanhoe Property was geologically mapped in the folio style used by Newmont elsewhere on the Carlin Trend and, during 1992 and 1993, a total of 12 core and 56 RVC holes, aggregating 15,294 feet and 37,660 feet, respectively, have been drilled. In addition, a combined rock chip, soil and stream geochemical survey and regional gravity airborne magnetic and airborne thematic surveys were completed prior to the end of 1992. Anomalous gold mineralization was encountered in the GOV and Sheep Corral and West Silver Cloud areas.
Regional mapping coupled with regional gravimetric surveys completed during the 1992/1993 exploration program strongly suggest the Hollister deposit lies along the crest of a basement paleohigh - the Tuscarora Mountains Anticline - which localizes numerous other Carlin Trend deposits to the southeast. This revelation is particularly significant in that it strongly suggests the Hollister deposit lies on the Carlin Trend. The 1992/1993 exploration program also developed working genetic models of Eocene and Miocene gold mineralization.
The 1994 exploration program was evenly split between the Hollister deposit area and the remainder of the property. At Hollister, 20 reverse circulation rotary holes (12,690 feet) and 7 core holes (4,318 feet + 500 feet rotary pre- collars) were drilled to define the limits of the volcanic-hosted gold mineralization and to explore for underlying, high-grade "feeder zones" in the Valmy Formation. Exploration peripheral to the known resource did not locate any new zones of mineralization or significantly expand the known zones. A high-grade fault breccia/vein was drilled near the western margin of the Clementine resource to offset an earlier 1994 rotary intercept of 15 feet grading 1.5 opt gold in the Valmy Formation. This hole cut 2.4 feet that graded 37.4 opt gold and terminated in the mineralized zone due to stuck drill rods. Two additional attempts to offset this intercept 200 feet to the northeast fell short of the target due to voids and resultant stuck rods. One core hole was also completed in the southern Velvet area to twin an existing rotary hole.
Flotation and bio-oxidation tests were performed on samples of sulfide mineralization from the Rowena and USX zones. Encouraging results stemmed from both sets of tests. Rougher concentrates recovered 70% of the contained gold in a product assaying 0.545 opt gold. Cleaner concentrates assayed 1.05 opt gold with 31% sulfide sulfur. Bio leach tests resulted in oxidation of 88% to 96% of the sulfide and extraction of 75% to 94% of the gold.
Seventeen individual target areas were selected for further work outside of the Hollister deposit area in 1994. Many of these areas were chosen in light of the Miocene gold mineralization model as reviewed above in concert with the recently completed 1:24,000 scale property-wide compilation maps. Two core holes (855 feet + 1,200 feet rotary pre-collars) and eleven rotary holes (7,725 feet) were drilled in five of these target areas. Of the remaining twelve areas, recommendations were made to hold eleven and drop one.
At Hatter, two shallow angled core holes intersected the continuation of the mineralized, north-south trending West Hatter Shear, but gold values were restricted to narrow (5-10 foot) intervals of 0.010 to 0.024 opt gold within broad zones (180 feet) grading 0.005 opt gold. No Phase 2 follow-up program was recommended.
Phase I, reverse circulation drilling at Rimrock, SLM, Jackson and Silver Cloud intersected only anomalous gold values. No follow-up drilling was undertaken.
CURRENT STATUS
In early 1995, Newmont completed an in-house pre-feasibility analysis of the Hollister gold deposit and concluded that the Butte and Velvet deposits did not meet Newmont's present size and investment criteria for near-term development.
As a result of the above, on July 11, 1995, Newmont advised the Company of its decision to withdraw from the Ivanhoe Venture. Upon notification by Newmont of its decision to withdraw, the Company entered into an option agreement with Newmont on the same date to acquire Newmont's interest in the Ivanhoe Property. Thereafter, the Company entered into an agreement dated August 13, 1997 with Great Basin Gold Inc. whereby Great Basin may earn up to a 75% interest in the Ivanhoe Property by paying $1 million to Newmont (paid) as a contribution to the reclamation fund, spending $2.8 million by August 12, 1999, on exploration and related costs and by purchasing 1.1 million units in the capital stock of Cornucopia Resources Ltd. for C $1.00 per unit (completed). The reclamation fund consists of $4.5 million of which $3,000,000 has been contributed by Newmont, $500,000 by the Company and $1,000,000 by Great Basin. Any eventual reclamation costs incurred on the Ivanhoe Property greater than $4,500,000 will be funded as to $500,000 each by Newmont, Great Basin and the Company. Further overruns, if any, will be funded as to 75% by Newmont, 18.75% by Great Basin and 6.25% by the Company. See Item 1 (m): "Reclamation Obligations".
In 1995, the joint venture's land claims were downsized to 510 claims which include a substantial area around the Hollister deposit and the Hatter dome. The property is in good standing and the leached out heaps continue to be rinsed in the course of reclamation.
1997 ACTIVITIES
As operator of the Ivanhoe Joint Venture, Great Basin has identified two primary exploration targets; the Hollister deposit and the Hatter intrusive gold-bearing system. The 1997 exploration program commenced with an analysis of all geological and geophysical data compiled by previous operators. This has been used in conjunction with proven exploration techniques developed at the nearby Rossi deposit of Meridian Gold Inc., where near-surface gold mineralization was successfully traced to large bodies of high-grade mineralization at depth.
Based on the model created by this analysis, an initial drill program was commenced in October 1997, to test the Valmy Formation where Newmont had encountered a high-grade intersection in 1994. The program consisted of six core holes totaling 2,380 feet which were completed in February 1998. Assay result highlights from 134.7 feet of selected whole core samples are tabulated below:
Careful core logging and detailed microscopic and microprobe analysis indicates that the high grade gold-silver mineralization intersected in Valmy Formation rocks in this initial drilling is similar to the recently discovered Ken Snyder Mine located 15 miles northwest of Ivanhoe on the Midas Property, owned by Franco-Nevada and Euro-Nevada Mining Corporations. The Valmy mineralization at Ivanhoe and the Midas system are both characterized by coarse-gold as electrum with locally abundant silver mineralization occurring as naumannite and aguilarite within finely banded quartz veining.
Although significant near surface drill-indicated and inferred resources remain in the Hollister area, current economic conditions, coupled with a change in Company focus towards exploring for larger deep Carlin gold systems, caused Newmont to initiate reclamation of the USX pit areas on June 1, 1996. Newmont submitted a formal reclamation and closure plan in March 1997 to the State of Nevada and the Bureau of Land Management. Newmont commenced more extensive reclamation in the Spring of 1997. In view of the fact that reclamation has begun, it is unlikely that the shallow gold resource at the Hollister deposit will be mined.
OTHER PROPERTY INTERESTS
The Company has interests in certain properties which are not considered to be material to current operations. A brief summary of 1996 and 1997 activities on each of these properties follows:
YAKOBI ISLAND PROPERTY
The Yakobi Island property is located approximately 70 miles west of Juneau in the Sitka Recording District, at the northernmost end of the Alexander Archipelago of Southeast Alaska. The property consisted of 39 unpatented federal claims and 11 patented federal claims at Bohemia Basin. It also includes a 1.95 acre Alaska Tidelands Lease which covers a 300-foot dock at the Lower Camp access to Bohemia Basin. The Company held an undivided 100 percent interest in certain patented and unpatented mineral claims on the Yakobi Island property. In August 1997, all rental payments on the unpatented claims held by the Company on this property were allowed to lapse. The Company intends to hold its interest in the patented claims and maintain the tideland lease for use of the dock at Bohemia Basin.
The property is without a known body of commercial ore and the Company's activities on the property to date have been exploratory in nature.
SOUTH MONITOR PROPERTY
The South Monitor property, which consists of 147 unpatented mining claims, is located in west-central Nevada between the Ellendale and Hannapah Mining Districts at the southern end of the Monitor Range, Nye County. The property is held by the Company, through its subsidiary Touchstone Resources Company, and Gold Exploration General Partnership, whose general partner is Nassau Ltd. Each partner holds a 50% interest in the property. The partners have elected to farm the property out to larger exploration companies who have the resources to fully explore the property's mineral potential.
The South Monitor property is without a known body of commercial ore and the Company's activities on the property to date have been exploratory in nature.
RED MOUNTAIN PROPERTY
The Company acquired this property as a result of the amalgamation of Cornucopia Resources Ltd. and Cyrano Resources Inc. in November 1985.
The Red Mountain property, situated approximately 13 miles from Silverton and Ouray, Colorado, consisted of 48 patented mining claims and 51 unpatented lode claims in Ouray and San Juan Counties in Southwestern Colorado. The Company determined that it was not interested in retaining the property and executed a quit-claim effective September 27, 1989, which reconveyed its interest in the property to Frank W. Baumgartner and Sial Exploration Inc.
The Division of Minerals and Geology (previously the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Division) inspected the property in 1992 and 1993 and concluded that a full release of funds in trust of $60,000 was dependent on further evaluation of the revegetation on the property. In 1994, weather conditions prohibited inspection by the authorities. Another inspection was performed in 1995 when it was determined that further monitoring of vegetation was required prior to full release of the reclamation bond. In 1996, the Company received a release from Baumgartner for $50,000 of the funds held in trust. No inspection was performed in 1997 and the $10,000 balance will be held in trust by the Forestry Department until restoration of the land is considered complete.
ITEM 3: