ITEM 2: DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
MINERAL RIDGE MINE
PROPERTY AND OWNERSHIP
The Mineral Ridge Mine was 100% owned by the Company until its sale to Vista Gold Corp. ("Vista Gold") on October 21, 1998, for consideration of $250,000 and 1,562,500 common shares of Vista at a deemed value of $250,000 plus the assumption of all of the liabilities of the Company with respect to the mine.
The Company acquired its initial interest in the property (the "Original Property") in April 1993, pursuant to an agreement with Mary Mining Company, Inc., a Florida corporation ("MMC"), and in August 1995, acquired an option from BenguetCorp. USA, Inc. ("BUSA") on other mining properties (the "Oromonte Claims") situated contiguous to the Original Property. The Company's interest in the Mineral Ridge Mine consisted of 175 claims of which 54 are patented. The Company's undivided 100% interest was subject to certain royalty obligations outlined below.
LOCATION, CLIMATE AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Mineral Ridge Mine is located about four miles (six kilometers) northwest of the town of Silver Peak, approximately 35 miles (56.35 kilometers) southwest of Tonopah, in Esmeralda County, Nevada. The 3,130 acre (1,266 hectares) land package consists of a total of 195 claims on four contiguous parcels of land in Esmeralda County (collectively referred to as the "Mineral Ridge Mine"). The terrain throughout most of the mineralized area is hilly to steep. Elevations range from 5,800 to
7,400 feet (1,740 - 2,220 meters) in the mine area. Climate is typical of the Great Basin region with hot dry summers and cool dry winters.
Modest amenities including living quarters, an elementary school, library, swimming pool and small store are found in Silver Peak and the town is suitable for housing a small work force.
PROPERTY HISTORY
The Mineral Ridge area has been intermittently mined up to the present day. Overall historical production is estimated at 573,000 ounces of gold from about 3 million tons of ore, with approximately 460,000 ounces produced prior to 1942.
MINERAL RIDGE ACQUISITIONS
On April 16, 1993, the Company entered into a letter agreement with MMC as trustee for and on behalf of certain beneficiaries under a land trust under which the Company was granted the option to enter into a lease for the Original Property located in Esmeralda County, Nevada. On May 15, 1996, the Company entered into a purchase agreement for the property which provides for certain option payments to the owners in addition to a down payment of $210,000.
On August 31, 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with BUSA under which the Company was granted an option to purchase the adjoining Oromonte Claims and assumed obligations under the related property purchase agreements. The Company paid $1.2 million for these claims which were subject to certain royalty payments.
GEOLOGY
The Mineral Ridge Mine gold deposits are detachment-fault hosted mesothermal quartz vein and replacement deposits localized on the crest and flanks of an early Tertiary metamorphic core complex. The mine is a northwest tending, doubly plunging, antiformal uplift of intermediate to felsic granitic rocks, varying from granodiorite to alaskite; capped by a metamorphic carapace of Precambrian metasediments which host the gold deposits.
FEASIBILITY STUDY
Behre Dolbear was retained by the Company during August 1995, to prepare a final feasibility study on the Mineral Ridge Mine (the "Parrish Report") which assumed that the construction of the mine would be financed with funds raised entirely with equity. Based upon the terms of the Mine Debt Financing Facility, the Company estimated its debt service costs to be approximately $4.20 per ounce.
The feasibility study established ore reserves of the project contained in four deposits and a low-grade ore stockpile. The proven and probable mineable ore reserve was calculated to be approximately 5.2 million tons averaging 0.068 ounces gold per ton of ore at an average internal cut-off grade of 0.024 ounces gold per ton of ore based on a gold price of $385 per ounce.
The life-of-mine direct cash operating costs (before taxes, royalties, amortization, depreciation and debt service) were estimated in the Parrish Report to be $235 per ounce and total operating costs (including debt service costs) were estimated to be $355 per ounce.
The life-of-mine, cumulative project cash flow of $13.5 million was set out in the Parrish Report. This cash flow was based on an economic analysis using constant dollars, applying no leveraging, viewing the project on a stand-alone basis. The estimates in the Parrish Report, assuming cash flows were realized at year end, no change in current taxation structure and a gold price averaging $407 per ounce for the 120,000 ounces hedged under the Company's hedging line, and $385 per ounce for the balance of production, indicated an internal rate-of-return of 12% after all applicable taxes. Price, ore reserve grade, and gold recovery all had about the same and greatest sensitivity on the projected cash flow.
Since the date of the calculation of the internal rate of return, gold prices have dropped significantly and, in response, the Company was forced to revise its mining plan with corresponding impact upon the estimated cost of production. The collapse of the gold price in 1997 and 1998 rendered these projections unrealistic.
PERMITTING
In early October 1996, the Mineral Ridge Mine received a Reclamation Permit and posted an initial reclamation bond in the amount of $1.6 million clearing the way to commence construction. Since that time, all additional permits required from the State of Nevada in order to commence mining operations were obtained.
EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT
In 1997, exploration at the Mineral Ridge Mine consisted of a two phase program, with the first stage designed to increase definition of the Mary, Brodie and Upper Drinkwater deposits, while the second part tested the down-dip, underground potential of the Mary and Custer Shaft targets. The 1997 program included 118 reverse circulation drill holes for a total of 22,140 feet of drilling. An additional 19 rotary percussion holes were drilled. The mine reserves were updated in late 1997 using the new data obtained in the drilling program, incorporated into a geologically constrained mineralization model. Compilation of historic surface and underground geology, structure and assay information was initiated to locate additional reserves which may be developed by surface and underground mining methods. An additional 22 lode claims were located to extend coverage of the property to almost three line miles of strike on the mineralized contact.
CURRENT STATUS
Operations at the Mineral Ridge Mine consisted of open-pit mining, four-stage crushing, agglomeration, heaping onto a permanent leach pad, and leaching and recovery by conventional cyanide and carbon adsorption methods. Mining was by contractor, crushing to 100% minus 6 mesh. The estimated gold recovery was 80.8% realized in 120 days after heaping in 20 feet (6.1 meters) lifts to a total height of 120 feet (36.6 meters).
In August 1996, a fixed price, turnkey contract was awarded to Roberts and Schaefer Company of Salt Lake City, Utah, for Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) of the Mineral Ridge Mine processing and other facilities. Construction proceeded according to schedule and mechanical completion was achieved on May 29, 1997. Final completion and testing of the facility was achieved on August 7, 1997.
A 69 kV powerline was installed to the mine site by Sierra Pacific Power Company. Water for mining and processing is drawn from an 1,800 foot (540 meters) deep well adjacent to the processing plant.
The Company initiated mining operations at the Mineral Ridge Mine in October 1996, and ore was stockpiled in advance of process plant start-up. Contract mining of the Mineral Ridge Mine ore deposits was carried out by D.H. Blattner & Sons Inc., of Avon, Minnesota. Due to low gold prices, mining was suspended in November 1997.
The crushing plant is designed for a maximum production rate of approximately 230 tons per hour. The ADR plant is designed for solution flows of 600 gallons per minute. As designed, these facilities will be capable of handling the planned production rate of 2,700 tons per day, which, at the planned mine head grades, would result in the average annual production of 50,000 ounces of gold. Initial gold production began in June 1997.
Because of declining gold prices, the reserves were re-evaluated using a gold price of $325 per ounce. This was performed in house by Mineral Ridge employees using MEDSYSTEM software and resulted in a reduction of mineable reserves to 3,014,326 tons grading 0.066 opt for a total of 199,501 ounces.
With the cessation of mining in November 1997, the continuing operations were devoted to crushing and leaching of the remaining stockpile and leaching of ore already placed on the pad. Attention was given to improving the quantity and quality of the water supply and remedying engineering problems related to the functioning of the four-stage crusher. The processing of ore and production of gold continued until the sale of the mine in October 1998.
The diminished activities and corresponding reduction in residual leaching of ore from the pile resulted in substantial reduction in the workforce. It became evident that this level of production could not sustain a viable operation nor could it provide the cash flow necessary to service the project loan of $13 million and the outstanding payables to contractors which exceeded $2 million. In these circumstances, steps were taken to seek a buyer for the Mineral Ridge Mine on terms which would relieve the Company of these financial burdens.
After negotiation with several interested buyers, the mine was sold on October 21, 1998, to Vista Gold Corp., of Denver, Colorado for consideration of $250,000 and 1,562,500 common shares of Vista Gold at a deemed value of $250,000, plus assumption by Vista Gold of all of the liabilities of the Company with respect to the mine.
IVANHOE PROPERTY
OWNERSHIP, LOCATION AND CLIMATE
On December 31, 1998, the Company owned a 25% interest in the Ivanhoe Property through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Touchstone Resources Company. On March 2, 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with Great Basin whereby Great Basin would acquire all of the outstanding shares of Touchstone in exchange for 2,750,000 common shares of Great Basin having an agreed value of C$1.25 per share, plus the allotment and issuance of 250,000 share purchase warrants to acquire a further 250,000 common shares of Great Basin at C$2.00 per share for a one year term. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and shareholder approval and upon such approvals the Company will have no further direct interest in the Ivanhoe Property. The required shareholder approval will be sought at the upcoming Annual and Extraordinary General Meeting of the Registrant.
The Ivanhoe Property, which is approximately 50 miles northeast of Battle Mountain, Nevada, is located at the northwestern end of the Carlin Trend in an area between Little Antelope Creek on the south to the Midas Trough on the north. The property currently consists of 510 unpatented mining claims and covers approximately 9,231 acres. Access to the property is available either via an eleven mile road from Midas, a county road from Battle Mountain, or a road from the Dee Mine six miles southeast of the property. The Ivanhoe joint venture's interest in the property is by way of option agreements, mining leases, operating rights agreements and staked mining claims. Pursuant to an agreement dated August 13, 1997, Great Basin has earned a 75% interest in the property by incurring expenditures totaling $5 million.
PROPERTY HISTORY
Pursuant to an agreement dated January 19, 1987, the Company acquired from USX Corporation ("USX") an option to purchase a 100% interest in part of the Ivanhoe Property for a purchase price of $3,250,000. USX reserved a non-participating royalty equal to the difference between 5% of the net smelter returns from all minerals produced from the property and all royalties paid pursuant to the underlying mining leases. This royalty was assigned to Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation and Euro-Nevada Mining Corporation in March 1992.
Following the acquisition of USX's interest, the Company proceeded to increase its interest in the Ivanhoe Property through the staking of mining claims and the acquisition of mining leases and operating rights agreements with options to purchase the claims. The mining leases and operating rights agreements then acquired provided for annual advance minimum royalties that are fully creditable and recoverable against production royalties which range from 2.5% to 3.5% of net smelter returns from all minerals (with limited exceptions) produced from the mining claims.
On May 19, 1989, the Company and Galactic Resources Ltd. ("Galactic") signed definitive agreements, effective April 4, 1987, which established the terms and conditions of a joint venture for the exploration and development of the Ivanhoe Property. Galactic acquired a 50% interest in the Ivanhoe Property on March 1, 1990. Construction of the Hollister Mine began in April 1990, and was completed in October 1990. Gold production recovered from the Hollister Mine and attributed to the Company for the years 1990 to June 1996, totaled 50,457 ounces. Mining ceased in May 1992, and production from residual leaching continued throughout the balance of 1992 to June 1996. The Galactic/Cornucopia joint venture terminated upon completion of the sale of various interests in the Ivanhoe Property and assets to Newmont as described below.
Touchstone entered into a letter agreement dated March 26, 1992, with Newmont Mining Company for the sale to Newmont of half of Touchstone's 50% interest in the assets of the Ivanhoe Property in consideration for $6,700,000. At about the same time, Newmont also acquired Galactic's 50% interest in the property thus giving Newmont a total 75% interest in the Ivanhoe Property, with Touchstone holding the remaining 25% interest. Touchstone and Newmont then entered into a mining venture agreement (the "Ivanhoe Venture") for further exploration and development of the Ivanhoe Property with Newmont being appointed as manager.
In early 1995, Newmont completed an in-house pre-feasibility analysis of the Hollister gold deposit and concluded that the known deposits did not meet Newmont's present size and investment criteria for near-term development.
As a result, on July 11, 1995, Newmont advised the Company of its decision to withdraw from the Ivanhoe Venture. Upon notification by Newmont of its decision to withdraw, the Company then entered into an option agreement with Newmont to acquire Newmont's interest in the Ivanhoe Property. Thereafter, the Company entered into an agreement dated August 13, 1997, with Great Basin Gold Ltd. whereby Great Basin may earn up to a 75% interest in the Ivanhoe Property by paying $1 million to Newmont (paid) as a contribution to the reclamation fund, spending $2.8 million by August 12, 1999, on exploration and related costs (completed) and by purchasing 1.1 million units in the capital stock of Cornucopia Resources Ltd. for C$1.00
per unit (completed). The reclamation fund consisted of $4.5 million of which $3,000,000 was contributed by Newmont, $500,000 by the Company and $1,000,000 by Great Basin. Reclamation costs incurred on the Ivanhoe Property greater than $4,500,00 were to be funded as to $500,000 each by Newmont, Great Basin and the Company. Further overruns are to be funded as to 75% by Newmont, 18.75% by Great Basin and 6.25% by the Company. See Item 1: "Industry Overview and Factors Relating to the Company's Properties" - (k): "Reclamation Obligations."
In 1995, the joint venture's land claims were downsized to 510 claims which include a substantial area around the Hollister deposit and the Hatter dome. The property is in good standing and the leached out heaps continue to be rinsed in the course of reclamation.
GEOLOGY
The Carlin Trend, which includes the Ivanhoe Property at its northern end, is a northwest-trending, 50 mile long metallogenic corridor. The key ore controls for Carlin-type gold deposits are a combination of favorable structural preparation of favorable host rocks. In addition, because of the postulated role of magmatic activity as a heat and/or metal source, the occurrence of associated intrusive rocks is another important geologic factor for the Carlin Trend gold deposits.
Favorable Carlin Trend geologic conditions are observed at the Ivanhoe Property. The Ivanhoe Property geologic units include Lower Plaeozoic sedimentary and mid-Tertiary intrusive rocks covered by a thin veneer of Tertiary volcanic and volcano-sedimentary rocks. At Ivanhoe and on the rest of the Carlin Trend, the best host rocks for gold mineralization occur in the Lower Paleozoic stratigraphy below the Tertiary rocks. Structure is an important ore control, and typically occurs at the Ivanhoe Property as high-angle faults with east-west, north-northwest and northeast trends. The intersection zones of these faults are especially critical controls for gold mineralization.
Ivanhoe contains at least two areas known to host significant gold mineralization. The Hollister mine area has a large low-grade gold system associated with the Tertiary volcanic rocks and underlying upper plate Ordovician Valmy Formation quartzites and cherts. This mineralization is interpreted to be a near surface leakage from a deeper high grade gold system below. A 1994 core intercept in the west Hollister area by Newmont of 2.4 feet grading 33.541 oz. Au/ton, is a high grade feeder vein to the overlying volcanic hosted disseminated gold mineralization. There are at least 34 such historic high grade intercepts in the Valmy Formation requiring follow-up drilling to delineate the Hollister feeder vein system.
The 40 mg Hatter Stock represents the second target area and has another significant, although less well studied, leakage anomaly associated with it and the surrounding Valmy Formation. Assays from the younger cross cutting veins in the Hatter intrusive include 10 feet of 0.731 oz. Au/ton and 20 feet of 0.736 Au/ton and Valmy rocks low-grade intercepts such as 525 feet at 0.012 oz. Au/ton in brittle shear or Fault zones on the west flank of the stock host.
MINING OPERATIONS
The Hollister Mine which operated from October 1990, until mined out in May 1992, was a surface mine with two coalescing open pits in the USX zone with heap leach gold extraction and a carbon adsorption gold recovery plant located approximately one half mile from the operating pits. In addition, the mine site also included a waste dump, topsoil stockpiles, haul roads, office, laboratory, and a warehouse/shop facility. The project utilized conventional drilling and blasting techniques and material movement methods. Production from residual leaching continued from 1992 through to June 1996.
IVANHOE EXPLORATION
The primary goal of the current exploration program at Ivanhoe is to locate high grade gold deposits similar to Franco-Nevada's Ken Snyder Mine to the northwest and Barrick's Meikle Mine to the southeast which are mineable by underground methods. As well, exploration will be based on comparisons to the Goldstrike area (ie. Post-Betze and associated deposits). The comparison with Goldstrike is based upon similarities in the size and tenor of the gold leakage anomalies in the Hatter areas, ore controlling structures, Lower Paleozoic stratigraphy and association of mineralization with an intermediate composition intrusive body (ie. the Hatter stock). The comparison with Ken Snyder is based on the similarity in style and mineralogy of feeder veins intersected beneath the Hollister deposit to those at the Midas discovery.
As operator of the Ivanhoe Joint Venture, Great Basin has identified two primary exploration targets, the Hollister and Hatter areas, to explore for modest depth feeder veins in the Valmy Formation below the Hollister deposit and deeper, lower plate targets below both the Hollister and Hatter target areas. To date, Great Basin has completed new, detailed surface mapping, and extensive new cross section construction that has defined key ore controlling vein structures beneath Hollister.
An initial drilling program at Hollister in 1998 tested one of these vein systems containing a 1994 Newmont core intercept of (+) 30 opt gold. Using a N40E oriented fence of six vertical core holes on 25 foot spacings, the drilling cross-cut high-grade intercepts in the northern Clementine area of the deposit. Hole IH-004 pierced a very high grade vein zone of 4.6 feet grading 11.129 opt and 103.4 ounces silver per ton within a thicker interval of 10.6 feet assaying 4.964 opt and 47.8 ounces silver per ton. Another intercept of 12.6 feet grading 1.635 opt gold and 39.0 ounces silver was discovered downhole.
The early 1998 discovery of Ken Snyder-style veining in the Valmy Formation at Hollister has made this target a high priority for the upcoming exploration program. The continuing Ivanhoe exploration program will focus on testing this high grade gold-silver system in upper plate Valmy Formation in the Hollister area. Drilling will build on relogging of drill holes and geocompilation of the vein system geometry.
During the 1999 exploration season Great Basin plans a C$1.5 to C$2.5 million exploration program to build on reinterpretation of the multiple vein intercepts in the Hollister area, by drilling angled core holes to establish the presence and continuity of this high-grade gold-silver system. Drill holes will test projected intersections of major ore-controlling northeast, east and north trending fault zones. Depending on results, 15 to 25 angled core holes with an average length of 1,000 feet are planned for 1999.
OTHER PROPERTY INTERESTS
The Company has interests in certain properties which are not considered to be material to current operations. A brief summary of 1996, 1997 and 1998 activities on each of these properties follows:
YAKOBI ISLAND PROPERTY
The Yakobi Island property is located approximately 70 miles west of Juneau in the Sitka Recording District, at the northernmost end of the Alexander Archipelago of Southeast Alaska. The property consisted of 39 unpatented federal claims and 11 patented federal claims at Bohemia Basin. It also includes a 1.95 acre Alaska Tidelands Lease which covers a 200-foot dock at the Lower Camp access to Bohemia Basin. The Company held an undivided 100 percent interest in certain patented and unpatented mineral claims on the Yakobi Island property. In August 1997, all rental payments on the unpatented claims held by the Company on this property were allowed to lapse. The property is without a known body of commercial ore and the Company's activities on the property to date have been exploratory in nature.
The Company is in discussions with a Land Trust for the sale of the Yakobi Island properties. If concluded, the agreement would provide for clean up activities on the site and proceeds to the Company for the 155 acre property at appraised value, less an administrative fee payable to the Land Trust.
SOUTH MONITOR PROPERTY
The South Monitor property, which consists of 147 unpatented mining claims, is located in west-central Nevada between the Ellendale and Hannapah Mining Districts at the southern end of the Monitor Range, Nye County. The property is held by the Company and Gold Exploration General Partnership, whose general partner is Nassau Ltd. Each partner holds a 50% interest in the property. The partners have elected to farm the property out to larger exploration companies who have the resources to fully explore the property's mineral potential.
The South Monitor property is without a known body of commercial ore and the Company's activities on the property to date have been exploratory in nature.
RED MOUNTAIN PROPERTY
The Company acquired this property as a result of the amalgamation of Cornucopia Resources Ltd. and Cyrano Resources Inc. in November 1985.
The Red Mountain property, situated approximately 13 miles from Silverton and Ouray, Colorado, consisted of 48 patented mining claims and 51 unpatented lode claims in Ouray and San Juan Counties in Southwestern Colorado. The Company determined that it was not interested in retaining the property and executed a quit-claim effective September 27, 1989, which reconveyed its interest in the property to Frank W. Baumgartner and Sial Exploration Inc.
The Division of Minerals and Geology (previously the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Division) inspected the property in 1992 and 1993 and concluded that a full release of funds in trust of $60,000 was dependent on further evaluation of the revegetation on the property. In 1994, weather conditions prohibited inspection by the authorities. Another inspection was
performed in 1995 when it was determined that further monitoring of vegetation was required prior to full release of the reclamation bond. In 1996, the Company received a release from Baumgartner for $50,000 of the funds held in trust. No inspection was performed in 1997 or 1998 and the $10,000 balance will be held in trust by the Forestry Department until restoration of the land is considered complete.
ITEM 3: