Item 2. Properties.
Oil and Gas Properties
The following table sets forth data as of December 31, 1997 regarding the number of gross producing wells and the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's principal properties.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Set forth below are descriptions of certain of the Company's significant oil and gas producing properties and those targeted for significant drilling activity in 1998.
Rocky Mountain Region
General
In the Rocky Mountain Region, the Company's operations are focused primarily in the Big Horn, Green River and Wind River Basins.
Rocky Mountain Acquisition
The Company's principal Rocky Mountain properties were acquired in November 1995 when the Company acquired substantially all of the oil and gas assets of Natural Gas Processing Company for a purchase price of approximately $33 million. Included in the acquisition were interests in 531 gross (301 net) wells located in over 30 different fields, principally in six producing basins located in Wyoming, Colorado and Montana. Proved reserves were estimated at the time of the acquisition to be 66,700 MMcfe, consisting of 40,900 MMcf of natural gas and 4,300 Mbbls of oil and representing an average net acquisition cost of $0.49 per Mcfe. Since the acquisition, the Company has undertaken an aggressive field development and acreage acquisition program in the region that has resulted in significant increases in proved oil and gas reserves and acreage holdings as well as numerous exploration and development drilling opportunities, most notably in the Manderson Field.
The Rocky Mountain Acquisition also included approximately 197,000 gross (160,000 net) acres of properties, which the Company believes contain extensive development drilling opportunities. As the result of additional property acquisitions and leasing, the Company has increased its leasehold acreage in the Rocky Mountain region to approximately 518,248 gross (408,718 net) developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 1997.
Manderson Field
The Manderson Field is located in the Big Horn Basin of north central Wyoming. The field was discovered in 1951, and 14 wells targeting the Phosphoria Dolomite were drilled using primarily 320 and 640-acre spacing from 1951 to 1954 (with average reserve recovery for the wells of approximately 150 Mbbls of oil per well). The Company has expanded its holdings in the field from approximately 7,500 acres obtained in the acquisition to 64,257 gross (60,698 net) acres at December 31, 1997, covering an area 20 miles long and 14 miles wide. The field has multiple reservoirs ranging from 4,500 to 8,600 feet that are producing or potentially productive, including the Phosphoria Dolomite, Muddy, Octh Louie, Frontier, Lakota, Dakota and Tensleep sands. All of these formations except the Phosphoria and Tensleep are known to produce sweet oil and/or gas. The Phosphoria and Tensleep produce sour oil and gas.
Through December 31, 1997, the Company had drilled a total of 63 wells in the field. Based on drilling and production results, coupled with the acquisition and interpretation of additional seismic data, the Company believes that the seven formations located in its holdings in the greater Manderson Field area have significant potential. As a result, the Company has commenced an extensive development drilling program in the area. Of the 63 wells the Company had drilled, 50 wells targeted the Phosphoria. The presence of sour gas from the Phosphoria formation and the limitations imposed by the State of Wyoming and the federal government on the amount of sour gas that can be flared have severely limited production from the completed Phosphoria wells, most of which were shut-in for extended periods of time awaiting completion of a sour gas processing facility (amine plant) and an associated acid gas injection system which was completed and put into service in December 1997. As of December 31, 1997, nine wells were completed and producing or ready to produce, nine wells had been plugged back to the shallower Octh Louie or Muddy formations due to well bore damage caused by being shut-in, 12 wells were awaiting completion, 18 wells were awaiting stimulation or remediation, one well had been completed as a full-stream re-injection well and one well had been completed as a water disposal well. Through December 31, 1997, the
Company also drilled 13 wells targeting the Muddy, Frontier and Octh Louie formations and had completed two wells to the Muddy, one to the Frontier and five to the Octh Louie, four wells were in the process of being completed and one well had been completed as an acid gas injection well.
In February 1997, the Company began construction of an amine plant to process the sour gas produced from the Phosphoria formation. Testing of the plant's systems commenced in May 1997 and the Company began to test process sour gas in late July 1997. Prior to its completion in December 1997, operation of the amine plant had been severely limited due to delays in receipt of acid gas disposal equipment. The plant has the capacity to treat up to 28,000 Mcf of sour gas (20% hydrogen sulfide content level) per day to pipeline specifications. Assuming a steady-state 2 Mcf to 1 bbl gas/oil ratio, the plant's capacity, assuming treatment to pipeline specifications, would permit oil production from the Manderson Field at up to 14,000 barrels of oil per day. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to produce oil and gas from the Manderson Field at rates sufficient to fully utilize such capacities. The plant's sour gas handling capacity would be substantially higher if the Company elected to treat its 20% sour gas to a 3% hydrogen sulfide content level and then transport the 3% sour gas to an existing gas treatment facility owned by a third party for processing to pipeline specifications. That facility is currently undergoing modifications to safely handle such sour gas.
The Company has also drilled and completed an acid gas injection well, and has obtained permits for a second such well, in order to inject the acid gas by-product (approximately 98% hydrogen sulfide content level) from its amine plant back into the ground. The Company expects each of these injection wells to have sufficient capacity to inject the plant's acid gas for a significant number of years. As of December 31, 1997, the Company operated two full-stream gas re-injection wells, had permits pending for a third and was engineering a fourth re-injection well. Each of the re-injection wells is expected to have the capacity to re-inject from 2,000 to 2,500 Mcf per day of 20% sour gas back into the Phosphoria. Once fully operational, these four gas re-injection wells could permit the production of up to 4,000 to 5,000 barrels of oil per day, assuming a steady-state 2 Mcf to 1 bbl gas/oil ratio. The Company expects to use this sour gas re-injection capacity primarily as a backup for its amine plant.
The Btu content of the sweet gas produced from the shallower formations in the Manderson Field (the Muddy, Frontier, Octh Louie, Lakota and Dakota sands) ranges from 1,050 to 1,350 MMBtu per Mcf. As a result, the rich gas must be processed to remove the natural gas liquids prior to shipment. The Company has several options for the removal of these liquids, including contracting for processing services from existing nearby liquids processing facilities with available capacity or the procurement, installation and operation by the Company of its own liquids processing plant. Based on currently anticipated production levels, the Company does not expect that production will be constrained due to the need to remove the natural gas liquids.
Other Big Horn Basin Properties
In addition to its holdings in the Manderson Field, the Company also has interests in approximately 100,000 gross acres on other producing properties with many of the same formations as the Manderson Field area in the Big Horn Basin. The most significant of these fields is the Fourteen-Mile Field, located in Washakie County southwest of the Manderson Field in the Big Horn Basin where the Company currently has lease holdings on 70,000 gross acres.
Gulf Coast Region
The Company's Gulf Coast Region operations are and comprised primarily of onshore properties in Texas and Louisiana, including the Langham Creek Area near Houston, Texas and the Bob West Field in south Texas. The Company also owns non-operated interests in the Gulf of Mexico.
Langham Creek Area
This area is comprised of the Cypress, Cypress Deep and Langham Creek Fields in western Harris County, Texas, where the Company has interests in 10,187 gross (8,590 net) acres and is the operator. Multiple horizons in this area produce oil and gas from Eocene age sandstones in the Yegua formation from 6,000 to 7,500 feet and in
the Wilcox formation from 9,000 to 16,500 feet.
The Company acquired additional working interests in the Langham Creek Area in May 1997, which added 14,000 MMcfe of proved reserves and the potential for significant additional reserves for approximately $17 million. With this acquisition, the Company's third in a series of acquisitions in this field, KCS assumed operatorship and now owns working interests varying from 33% to 100% in 19 wells in this area, representing an average net revenue interest of approximately 46%. The geological and geophysical evidence indicates the potential for as many as four to eight additional development drilling locations, with the upper-middle Wilcox sands as the primary target. In addition, the Company has initiated a 3-D seismic survey to better delineate potential drilling locations not only for the known productive horizons, but also for a deeper, high potential exploration prospect. Results of the 3-D seismic survey are expected to be completed during the second quarter of 1998 and could change the number of potential drilling locations.
Bob West Field
The Company has interests in approximately 863 gross (599 net) acres in this field located in Zapata and Starr Counties, Texas. Historically, the Bob West field had been the Company's most significant producing property, accounting for approximately 34% of gas production and 61% of oil and gas revenues during the six-year period ended December 31, 1996. In 1997, production from the Bob West Field accounted for less than 5% of total production and oil and gas revenue. The field produces natural gas from a series of 20 different Upper Wilcox sands with formation depths ranging from 9,500 to 13,500 feet that require stimulation by hydraulic fracturing to effectively recover the reserves. Because the majority of this field is situated under Lake Falcon on the Rio Grande River, most wells were drilled directionally under the lake from common lakeshore drill sites. The Company owns interests in two principal areas in the Bob West Field.
The Company has an effective 12.5% working interest in all production from the Guerra "A" and Guerra "B" units containing 32 producing wells. The Company also owns a 100% working interest in and operates 511 acres referred to as the Falcon/Bob West Field which contains 16 producing natural gas wells.
Gulf of Mexico
The Company has working interests ranging from 1% to 14% in 12 offshore fields (including blocks located in the Eugene Island, Ship Shoal, South Timbalier, Vermilion and East and West Cameron areas) which are operated by others. The Company has an average working interest of approximately 8% in 50 wells.
These fields produce from various Pleistocene, Pliocene and Miocene sands ranging from 6,000 feet to 15,000 feet in depth. The Company continues to participate in the development of the properties where it already owns leases but is not currently participating in new leasehold acquisitions.
The Company also has acquired substantial reserves in the Gulf of Mexico under its VPP program. See "-- Volumetric Production Payment Program."
Mid-Continent/West Texas Region
General
In the Mid-Continent/West Texas Region, the Company has active drilling programs in the Anadarko, Ardmore, Arklatex, Arkoma, and Permian Basins.
Medallion Acquisition
Effective December 31, 1996, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of InterCoast Oil and Gas Company (formerly Medallion Production Company), GED Energy Services, Inc. and InterCoast Gas Services Company, for a total price of $199.1 million. Medallion's principal oil and gas assets were estimated as of December 31, 1996 to be 187,458 MMcfe of proved oil and gas reserves, consisting of 140,320 MMcf of natural
gas and 7,856 Mbbls of oil and condensate, representing an average net acquisition cost of $0.98 per Mcfe. These reserves were located primarily in west Texas, the Texas panhandle, northwest Oklahoma and north Louisiana.
Sawyer Canyon Field
The Company's holdings in the Sawyer Canyon Field, located in Sutton County, Texas, represented 10% of the Company's proved reserves as of December 31, 1997. The Company owns interests in 346 gross (314 net) wells, of which it operates 323. The Company's average working interest in this field was 91%, and its leasehold position at December 31, 1997 consisted of approximately 36,807 gross (35,759 net) acres.
The main producing formation in the Sawyer Canyon Field is the Canyon sandstone at a depth of approximately 5,500 feet. These Canyon reservoirs tend to be discontinuous and generally exhibit lower porosity and permeability, characteristics which reduce the area that can be effectively drained by a single well to units as small as 40 acres.
The Company has continued to optimize the field's production and cash flow performance by maintaining close well, compressor and operating expense surveillance. The Company believes that additional proved reserves may ultimately be attributed to many of the 30 or more 40-acre drilling locations remaining on the property. In addition to exploiting these Canyon sand development opportunities, the Company intends to evaluate portions of the Sawyer Canyon Field for potential in the shallower Wolfcamp and deeper Strawn formations which have been found to be productive in the area.
Elm Grove Field
The Company has interests in approximately 5,760 gross (5,545 net) acres in the Elm Grove Field, Bossier Parish, Louisiana. Production from the Elm Grove Field is primarily natural gas from the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations at depths of 7,000 to 9,600 feet. As of December 31, 1997, the Company owned an interest in 24 gross (23.7 net) wells, all of which were operated by the Company.
Other Regions
Newhall-Potrero Field
The Company's Newhall-Potrero Field is located in Los Angeles County, California, outside the city of Valencia. The Company is the operator and owns a 100% working interest in 39 active wells. The Company has been able to maintain the oil production at or above the same daily rate as the field was producing when it was acquired by Medallion in 1993 by converting certain wells from gas lift to pumping unit operations and reworking other wells, and was able to reduce the per barrel lifting cost. The Company believes that there are other production enhancement opportunities in the Newhall-Potrero Field through the recompletion of wells or the drilling of high angle laterals to undrained portions of the oil reservoirs.
Niagaran Reef Trend (Michigan)
The Company owns working interests averaging 20% in 24 active producing wells located in the northern Niagaran Reef trend of Michigan. The Niagaran Reef reservoirs are tall carbonate mounds (limestones & dolomites) varying from several hundred to more than 600 feet in height and are typically found at depths of 4,000 to 6,500 feet.
The Company acquired its ownership in the Michigan properties in December 1995 in conjunction with a VPP transaction with a subsidiary of Hawkins Oil and Gas, Inc. ("Hawkins"). During 1997, the Company began expanding its involvement in the area by participating in a 28 square mile 3-D seismic exploration project designed to identify and drill for Niagaran reefs in a previously underexplored area of the northern reef trend. This project area offsets a portion of the existing productive reef trend that statistically contains more than 1.5 reefs per square mile and where per well cumulative productions have exceeded 450 Mbbls of oil. This project is currently in the final stages of leasing. Drilling of the first 10 prospects is expected to commence by mid-year 1998.
Volumetric Production Payment and Underlying Principal Properties
The following table shows, as of December 31, 1997 the oil and gas deliveries to the Company that are scheduled to be made pursuant to its VPP program over the period from 1998 through 2006.
The properties underlying the VPP program are principally located in two major regions, the Gulf of Mexico and the Niagaran Reef trend in Michigan.
Gulf of Mexico VPP Properties
Hall-Houston Oil Company Properties. The Company has acquired interests in 11 blocks off the coast of Texas and Louisiana through volumetric production payment contracts with Hall-Houston Oil Company ("HHOC"), which is the operator of all of the blocks. The blocks contain 20 wells drilled during the 1994 through 1997 period in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, producing at depths ranging from 4,500 to 10,000 feet. Pursuant to the HHOC volumetric production payments, the Company received deliveries totaling 2,169 MMcf during 1997 and is scheduled to receive deliveries totaling 7,164 MMcf in 1998, and 4,922 MMcf in 1999.
On January 27, 1998 the Company entered into its eleventh VPP transaction with HHOC. Under terms of the agreement, KCS acquired 10.8 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of proved natural gas reserves scheduled to be produced and delivered during the 1998-2000 period.
ATP Oil & Gas Properties. The Company has acquired interests in eight blocks off the coast of Louisiana, one block off the coast of Texas and one onshore property in Texas through VPP contracts with ATP Oil & Gas Co. of Houston, Texas ("ATP"), which is the operator of all of the blocks. The blocks contain 11 wells drilled during 1996 and 1997 that are at depths ranging from 3,000 to 13,500 feet in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Pursuant to the ATP volumetric production payments, the Company received deliveries totaling 555 MMcfe during 1997 and is scheduled to receive deliveries totaling 11,030 MMcfe in 1998, and 5,263 MMcfe in 1999. The terms of the VPP with ATP specify that the Company receives a fixed percentage of the production attributable to ATP's working interest until payout of the Company's investment, then a reduced percentage until the Company's return on its initial investment reaches a defined level, at which time the Company would be entitled to a continuing overriding royalty interest for the remaining life of the reserves. As a result, the exact volumes to be delivered to the Company will vary depending on a number of factors including the timing of production and the actual realized oil and gas prices.
Niagaran Reef Trend (Michigan) VPP Properties
The Company's northern and southern Niagaran Reef trend properties, located in Michigan, were acquired in December 1995. The VPP program reserves are being produced largely from a group of 25 wells located in 12 fields. The Niagaran Reef reservoirs are typically found at depths between 4,000 and 6,500 feet. Of the remaining 8,684 MMcf and 597.9 Mbbls to be delivered under the VPP program, the Company is scheduled to receive 2,195 MMcf and 161.6 Mbbls in 1998, with the balance to be delivered between 1999 and 2006.
Other VPP Properties
The Company is also scheduled to receive deliveries totaling 444 MMcfe from 1998 to 2000 from several smaller VPPs.
Oil and Gas Reserves
All information in this Form 10-K relating to estimates of the Company's proved reserves is based on reports prepared by KCS and other independent petroleum engineers. The reports for the KCS Medallion Resources, Inc.; KCS Mountain Resources, Inc.; KCS Resources, Inc.; and KCS Michigan Resources, Inc. properties, which collectively represent 90% of total KCS proved reserves at December 31, 1997, were audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. pursuant to the principles set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserve Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. The independent reserve engineers' estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company or third party operators.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, summary information with respect to (i) the estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves attributable to working interests and (ii) the reserve amounts contracted for pursuant to the agreements relating to VPP's. The present value of future net revenues in the table should not be construed to be the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by the Company.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and future amounts and timing of development expenditures, including underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are inherently less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, geologic success and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, the present value shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, the estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of natural gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. Other than gas sold under contractual arrangements including swaps, futures contracts and options, gas prices were $2.50 per Mcf and oil prices were $15.15 per barrel at December 31, 1997. The prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil, are subject to substantial seasonal fluctuations, and prices for each are subject to
substantial fluctuations as a result of numerous other factors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
Acreage
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company's developed and undeveloped leased acreage as of December 31, 1997. The leases in which the Company has an interest are for varying primary terms, and many require the payment of delay rentals to continue the primary term. The leases may be surrendered by the operator at any time by notice to the lessors, by the cessation of production, fulfillment of commitments, or by failure to make timely payments of delay rentals. Excluded from the table are the Company's interests in the properties subject to volumetric production payments.
Drilling Activities
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted through arrangements with independent contractors. Certain information with regard to the Company's drilling activities during the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, is set forth below.
At December 31, 1997, the Company was participating in the drilling or completion of 30 gross (21.35 net) wells.
Production and Sales
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production attributable to the Company's properties and average sales prices during the three years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.
Other Facilities
Principal offices of the Company and its operating subsidiaries are leased in modern office buildings in Edison, New Jersey (10,000 square feet), Houston, Texas (25,000 square feet) and Tulsa, Oklahoma (17,000 square feet). In Worland, Wyoming, the Rocky Mountain operations are based in a 10,000 square foot Company-owned facility.
The Company believes that all of its property, plant and equipment are well maintained, in good operating condition and suitable for the purposes for which they are used.
Item 3.