Item 2. Properties.
PRINCIPAL WORKING INTEREST OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth data as of September 30, 1995 (giving effect to the Rocky Mountain Acquisition) regarding the number of gross producing wells and the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's principal onshore Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain properties in which it owns working interests.
Set forth below are descriptions of certain of the Company's significant oil and gas producing properties.
ONSHORE GULF COAST PROPERTIES
Bob West Field. The Company has interests in approximately 863 gross (599 net) acres in this field located in Zapata and Starr Counties, Texas. The field produces natural gas from a series of 20 different Upper Wilcox sands with formation depths ranging from 9,500 to 13,500 feet that require stimulation by hydraulic fracturing to effectively recover the reserves. Because the majority of this field is situated under Lake Falcon on the Rio Grande River, most wells must be drilled directionally under the lake from common lakeshore drill sites. The Company owns interests in two principal areas in the Bob West Field. During September 30, 1995 the average combined rate of production attributable to the Company's net revenue interest was approximately 15,500 Mcf per day. Substantially all of this natural gas production is covered by the Tennessee Gas Contract.
The Company owns a non-operated 25% working interest in production subject to the Tennessee Gas Contract from the wells on the Guerra "A" and Guerra "B" units. Upon expiration of the Tennessee Gas Contract, the Company will have the equivalent of a 12.5% working interest in all production from these units. As of September 30, 1995, these units contained 28 producing wells with a combined rate of production attributable to the Company's net revenue interest of approximately 7,500 Mcf per day.
The Company also owns a 100% working interest in and is the operator for 511 acres referred to as the Falcon/Bob West property. A 320-acre portion of this acreage is covered by the Tennessee Gas Contract and contains 15 producing natural gas wells that, during September 30, 1995, had an average combined rate of production attributable to the Company's net revenue interest of approximately 8,000 Mcf per day. The balance of the Company's interest in the Falcon/Bob West property consists of a 40-acre tract and a 151-acre tract immediately adjacent to the Tennessee Gas Contract acreage. Two wells have been drilled on this acreage and a third is in the planning stage.
Langham Creek Area. This area is comprised of the Cypress Deep and Langham Creek Fields in western Harris County, Texas, where the Company has non-operated interests in approximately 4,500 gross (2,362 net) acres. Multiple horizons in this area produce natural gas and oil from Eocene age sandstones in the Yegua formation from 6,000 to 7,500 feet and in the Wilcox formation from 9,000 to 13,000 feet.
The Company has an average net revenue interest of approximately 39% in the six wells in this area. The wells include two wells that were recently completed, one in the Yegua formation that is not yet producing and one in the Wilcox formation that was recently opened into the sales line. Two of the wells, one in the Wilcox and one in the Yegua, were shut-in at September 30, 1995, but were recompleted in December 1995. During September 1995, the four producing wells in the Wilcox zone and had an average combined rate of production attributable to the Company's interest of approximately 3,400 Mcf and 44 Bbls per day. The Langham Creek Area is actively being developed and additional wells are scheduled to be drilled in 1996.
Oletha Field. The Company has interests in 1,384 gross (622 net) acres in this field located in Limestone County, Texas, which produces from multiple horizons ranging in depth from 6,500 to 11,700 feet. The productive section of the Oletha Field covers several thousand feet of normally pressured limestones and sandstones from which dry natural gas is recovered. The Company's average net revenue interest in this field is approximately 44%. The Company operates four wells completed in the Travis Peak and Cotton Valley sands and has small non-operated interests in five other wells. The Company is currently drilling another well, in which it has a 62% net revenue interest, to test deeper zones on this acreage. During September 1995, the average rate of production from the field attributable to the Company's interest was approximately 2,468 Mcf per day.
San Salvador Field. This field, located in Hidalgo County, Texas, covers 1,000 gross (477 net) acres and produces from a series of multi-pay lower Frio sands at depths ranging from 6,500 to 9,200 feet. As many as 12
separate reservoirs produce natural gas and condensate from normally pressured Frio age sandstones. The Company's average net revenue interest is approximately 36% in ten wells in the field. An additional one or two development wells are scheduled to be drilled in fiscal 1996, and the Company believes that each well has a potential for three to five Bcf of gross reserves. During September 1995, the average rate of production attributable to the Company's interest was approximately 1,200 Mcf and 2 Bbls per day.
Richardson-Mueller Field. The Company has a non-operated net revenue interest of approximately 27% in this 3,600-acre oil field located in Montague County, Texas. The field is the largest of four oil fields in the area producing from the Caddo Lime formation at a depth of approximately 6,100 feet. The field was discovered in 1943 and production reached a peak during 1952. Subsequently, the field was depleted to an average reservoir pressure of less than 300 psig, resulting in most of the original wells being plugged and abandoned. Based on the historical success of waterflood projects in analogous Caddo Lime fields, the first phase of an anticipated two phase waterflood project was initiated in April 1994 by the field's operator. This phase affects only about one-third of the field's total reservoir space and is located in the north end of the field. Assuming the currently indicated response continues, oil production rates from the first phase wells should begin increasing within the next six months and are expected to peak in about three years. If the first phase proves successful, a second phase is expected to be initiated to waterflood the remaining portion of the field to facilitate recovery of the full volume of anticipated reserves.
Salem-McCan Field. This field, located in Victoria County, Texas, was purchased in 1989 as the Company's first major acquisition. The field produces oil and natural gas from a series of shallow Miocene and Frio sands at depths from 600 to 4,000 feet, with the primary production coming from the Miocene. The Company is the operator of this field and owns a 100% working interest in 2,619 acres, with an average net revenue interest of approximately 74%. During September 1995, the average production rate attributable to the Company's interest was 429 Mcf and 67 Bbls per day.
Birdie Field. This field is located in Karnes County, Texas and consists of a single well located on a 320-acre natural gas unit with production from a middle Wilcox age sand at approximately 11,800 feet. The Company owns a 27% non-operated net revenue interest in this well, which during September 1995 had an average rate of production attributable to the Company's interest of 1,449 Mcf and 34 Bbls per day. The Company does not believe that additional wells are required to recover the reserves on this property.
Bloomberg Area. The Company has interests in 1,280 gross (178 net) acres in this area, which is comprised of the Bloomberg, North Bloomberg, South Bloomberg, South and West Flores Fields located near the boundary of Starr County and Hidalgo County, Texas. The producing reservoirs are a series of Vicksburg sands at depths ranging from 8,400 to 11,000 feet. The production is natural gas and condensate. Most of the wells require fracture stimulation and the reservoir drive mechanism is pressure depletion. The Company's net revenue interest is approximately 11% in seven non-operated wells in this area. During September 1995, the average rate of production attributable to the Company's interest was 627 Mcf and 9 Bbls per day.
Laurel Ridge Field. The Company is the operator of this field located in Iberville Parish, Louisiana and has a 26% net revenue interest in 3,656 gross (1,279 net) acres around two discovery wells. The #1 Claiborne Plantation was completed in August 1995 in the Cibicides Hazzardi (Frio) sand, and the second discovery, the #2 Claiborne Plantation, was completed in December 1995 in the shallower Miogyp (Frio) formation. An additional seismic program is scheduled to establish locations for additional wells to be drilled during 1996.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN PROPERTIES
Big Horn Basin. This basin is located in Hot Springs, Inashakie, Sweetwater, Bighorn and Park Counties, Wyoming and covers 71,753 gross (66,788 net) acres. The Company operates 76 wells and has additional interests in 124 non-operated wells in a total of 17 fields. The major producing properties in this basin are the Manderson/Ainsworth, which produces oil at depths from 6,400 to 7,500 feet, the Golden Eagle, which produces
natural gas and oil at depths from 3,200 to 10,000 feet and the Sellers Draw, which produces at depths from 10,000 to 19,000 feet. The combined average rate of production attributable to the Company's interest during the last week of September 1995 was approximately 2,000 Mcf and 590 Bbls per day. The Company believes that as many as 44 locations in this basin have development potential, but the timing of such development will be dependent on the availability of capital resources and market conditions.
San Juan Basin. The Company has an interest in 9,790 gross (5,247 net) acres in this basin located in La Platta and Archuleta Counties, Colorado and San Juan County, New Mexico. It operates 31 wells and has an interest in 17 non-operated wells in the Ignacio Field in Colorado as well as an interest in one non-operated well in the Ute Dome Field in New Mexico. The wells produce from the Dakota and Mesa Verde sands at depths ranging from 6,000 to 6,800 feet. During the last week of September 1995, the wells had an average rate of production attributable to the Company's interest of 1,600 Mcf per day.
Sweet Grass Arch Basin. The Company has an interest in 71,539 gross (47,009 net) acres in this basin, the majority of which is located in Toole County, Montana. It currently operates 171 wells and has an interest in seven non-operated wells. The major properties in this area are the Homestake and the Homestake Unit, with 57 wells currently producing at depths ranging from 800 to 2,000 feet and the Conrad/Devon, with 62 wells currently producing from the Bow Island sands at depths ranging from 800 to 1,500 feet. During the last week of September 1995, the average combined rate of production attributable to the Company's interest in this basin was 625 Mcf and 168 Bbls per day. The Company has identified 55 locations in this basin that it believes have development potential, but the timing of development will be dependent on the availability of capital resources and market conditions. In addition to the existing production, the Company owns a natural gas gathering system consisting of approximately 200 miles of pipeline that currently gathers approximately 1,700 Mcf per day of third-party natural gas on this property.
Green River Basin. This area is located in Carbon, Sweetwater and Lincoln Counties, Wyoming and La Platta County, Colorado, where the Company has an interest in 20,076 gross (16,884 net) acres. It operates 22 wells and has non-operating interests in 60 wells in four major fields, with production at depths ranging from 4,500 to 9,200 feet, primarily from the Mesa Verde, Frontier, Dakota, Cherokee and Shimarup formations. During the last week of September 1995, the average rate of production attributable to the Company's interest in this area was 1,284 Mcf and 7 Bbls per day. The Company has identified seven development locations and two recompletion opportunities in this basin, but the timing of such projects will be dependent on the availability of capital resources and market conditions.
VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT AND UNDERLYING PRINCIPAL PROPERTIES
The following table shows as of September 30, 1995, after giving effect to the Michigan Acquisition, the oil and gas deliveries to the Company that are scheduled to be made pursuant to its volumetric production payment program over the period from October 1, 1995 through September 30, 2006. Total future net cash flow to the Company from the volumetric production payment deliveries scheduled below is estimated to be $75.3 million based on prices in effect at September 30, 1995 of $1.65 per Mcf and $17.00 per Bbl, before adjustments for appropriate basis differentials and Btu content.
The properties underlying the volumetric production payment program are located in two major regions, offshore Gulf Coast and in the Niagaran Reef trend in northern and southern Michigan.
OFFSHORE GULF COAST PROPERTIES
The Company's offshore Gulf Coast properties are located in seven blocks off the coast of Texas and Louisiana and two blocks off the coast of Alabama. The Company's interests in the Texas and Louisiana blocks were all acquired through volumetric production payment contracts with Hall-Houston Oil Company ("HHOC"), which is the operator. The Texas and Louisiana blocks contain eight wells drilled during 1994 and 1995 to depths ranging from 1,700 to 9,050 feet in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Production attributable to HHOC's working interest during the month of September 1995 averaged 39,575 Mcf per day, of which an average of 20,432 Mcf per day was delivered to the Company under the volumetric production payment program. Proved reserves attributable to HHOC's interest, which support the volumetric production payment, were estimated by an independent reserve engineer to be 29,700 MMcf as of September 30, 1995. Pursuant to the HHOC volumetric production payment, the Company received deliveries totaling 4,471 MMcf during fiscal 1995 and is scheduled to receive 9,212 MMcf in fiscal 1996, 5,132 MMcf in fiscal 1997 and 3,046 MMcf in fiscal 1998.
The Company's interest in the two offshore Alabama blocks were acquired through a volumetric production payment agreement with The Offshore Group, which operates two wells located on these properties. The Company received deliveries of 104 MMcf in fiscal 1994, 593 MMcf in fiscal 1995 and is scheduled to receive deliveries totaling 732 MMcf in fiscal 1996 and 1997.
In addition, the Company is scheduled to receive volumes totaling 375 MMcfe during the period from 1996 to 1998 from several smaller volumetric production payments covering onshore Gulf Coast and Appalachian properties.
NIAGARAN REEF TREND PROPERTIES IN MICHIGAN
The properties underlying the volumetric production payment acquired by the Company in the Michigan Acquisition are located in the northern and southern Niagaran Reef trend in Michigan. The volumetric production payment reserves are expected to be produced largely from an existing group of 89 wells located in 49 fields operated by Hawkins. Additional reserves available to support the production payment may be derived from a series of recompletions scheduled during 1995 and 1996, and from certain reserves to be developed by Hawkins in an area of mutual interest covering the Niagaran Reef trend pursuant to an exploration program with a third party. The Niagaran Reef reservoirs are typically found at depths between 4,000 and 6,500 feet. Production rates from the property interests supporting the payment during September 1995 averaged 6,926 Mcf and 599 Bbls per day. An independent reservoir engineer estimated at October 1, 1995 that 19,465 MMcf and 1,320 Mbbls were attributable to Hawkins' interest in these properties to support the payment, with approximately 80% of the reserves contained in 20 wells. Of the 13.7 Bcf of natural gas and 1.1 MMbbls of oil covered by the volumetric production payment, the Company is scheduled to receive 2,137 MMcf and 210 Mbbls in 1996, with the remaining volumes delivered between 1997 and 2006.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
All information in this Form 10-K relating to estimates of the Company's proved reserves not associated with the volumetric production payment program is taken from reports prepared by R.A. Lenser and Associates, Inc. (the onshore Gulf Coast properties), H.J. Gruy and Associates, Inc. (the Rocky Mountain properties) and Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (the working interests in Michigan), each in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. These independent reserve engineers' estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company or third party operators.
Although reserve engineers' reports with respect to reserves underlying the Company's volumetric production payment program are utilized by the Company to support its own analysis of such reserves, the proved reserves and related future net revenues that the Company reports with respect to volumetric production payments are not derived from independent reserve engineers' reports, but rather are taken directly from the amounts contracted for pursuant to the agreements relating to each volumetric production payment (which amounts are less than the net interest production reflected in the reserve reports). Reports prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (the volumetric production payment properties owned by Hawkins in Michigan) and Ryder Scott Company (the volumetric production payment properties owned by HHOC in the offshore Gulf Coast region)
include all the reserves of each field from which the Company's interest is taken.
The following table sets forth, as of September 30, 1995 and giving effect to the Rocky Mountain and Michigan Acquisitions, summary information with respect to (i) the estimates made by the reserve engineers of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves attributable to working interests and (ii) the reserve amounts contracted for pursuant to the agreements relating to each volumetric production payment. The present value of future net revenues in the table should not be construed to be the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by the Company.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and future amounts and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are inherently less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, geologic success and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, the present value shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, the reserve engineers' and the Company's estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of natural gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. The present value attributable to the Company's proved reserves in the Bob West Field has been calculated based in part on the contract price to be paid by Tennessee Gas and with the assumption that 85% of the Company's delivery capacity from the specified units in the field will be sold at such price. (See Item 3). As of September 30, 1995, spot prices were $1.65 per Mcf and $17.00 per Bbl, before adjustments for appropriate differentials and Btu content. The prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil are subject to substantial seasonal fluctuations, and prices for each are subject to substantial fluctuations as a result of numerous other factors.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company's developed and undeveloped leased acreage as of September 30, 1995, after giving effect to the Rocky Mountain Acquisition. The leases in which the Company has an interest are for varying primary terms, and many require the payment of delay rentals to continue the primary term. The leases may be surrendered by the operator at any time by notice to the lessors, by the cessation of production, fulfillment of commitments, or by failure to make timely payments of delay rentals. Excluded from the table are the Company's interests in the properties subject to volumetric production payments.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted through arrangements with independent contractors. Certain information with regard to the Company's drilling activities during the years ended September 30, 1993, 1994 and 1995, is set forth below. The table does not reflect any drilling activities with respect to the recently acquired Rocky Mountain properties or with respect to any properties subject to volumetric production payments.
At September 30, 1995, the Company was participating in the drilling or completion of 12 gross (4.2 net) wells.
PRODUCTION AND SALES
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production attributable to the Company's properties, average sales prices and average production costs during the three years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993. The table does not reflect any production or sales attributable to the Rocky Mountain or Michigan Acquisitions.
Other Facilities
Principal offices of the Company and its operating subsidiaries are leased in modern office buildings in Edison, New Jersey (10,000 square feet) and in Houston, Texas (25,000 square feet). In Conroe, Texas, the intrastate transmission system operations are based in an 1,800 square foot Company-owned facility. As a result of the Rocky Mountain Acquisition, the Company leases a 10,000 square foot facility in Worland, Wyoming.
The Company believes that all of its property, plant and equipment are well maintained, in good operating condition and suitable for the purposes for which they are used.
Item 3.