Item 2. Properties.
WORKING INTEREST OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth data as of December 31, 1996 regarding the number of gross producing wells and the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's principal properties in which it owns working interests.
Set forth below are descriptions of certain of the Company's significant oil and gas producing properties and those targeted for significant drilling activity in 1997.
ONSHORE GULF COAST PROPERTIES
Bob West Field. The Company has interests in approximately 863 gross (599 net) acres in this field located in Zapata and Starr Counties, Texas. The field produces natural gas from a series of 20 different Upper Wilcox sands with formation depths ranging from 9,500 to 13,500 feet that require stimulation by hydraulic fracturing to effectively recover the reserves. Because the majority of this field is situated under Lake Falcon on the Rio Grande River, most wells were drilled directionally under the lake from common lakeshore drill sites. The Company owns interests in two principal areas in the Bob West Field. Prior to the termination of the Tennessee Gas Contract effective January 1, 1997, substantially all of this natural gas production was covered by the contract. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 38 of this Form 10-K.
With the termination of the Tennessee Gas Contract, the Company has the equivalent of a 12.5% working interest in all production from the Guerra "A" and Guerra "B" units. As of December 31, 1996, these units contained 33 producing wells.
The Company also owns a 100% working interest in and operates 17 wells in the Falcon/Bob West Field. Substantially all of this acreage was covered by the Tennessee Gas Contract.
Langham Creek Area. This area is comprised of the Cypress, Cypress Deep and Langham Creek Fields in western Harris County, Texas, where the Company has non-operated interests in 7,763 gross (3,511 net) acres. Multiple horizons in this area produce oil and gas from Eocene age sandstones in the Yegua formation from 6,000 to 7,500 feet and in the Wilcox formation from 9,000 to 13,000 feet.
The Company owns working interests varying from 22% to 65% in 12 wells in this area, representing an average net revenue interest of approximately 33%. The geological and geophysical evidence indicates the potential for as many as six to nine additional drilling locations, with the upper Wilcox sands as the primary target.
Laurel Ridge Field. The Company is the operator of this field located in Iberville Parish, Louisiana and has a 26% net revenue interest in 3,773 gross (1,320 net) acres around two discovery wells. The #1 Claiborne Plantation was completed in August 1995 in the Cibicides hazzardi (Frio) sand and the second discovery, the #2 Claiborne Plantation, was completed in December 1995 in the shallower Miogyp (Frio) formation. Based on the results of the first two discovery wells and 2-D seismic surveys, the Company drilled two additional step-out wells in July and October 1996 which were temporarily abandoned. The Company has deferred future development until the completion of a 3-D seismic survey.
Glasscock Ranch Field. This field is located in Colorado County, Texas. The Company and its partners leased approximately 2,800 acres and in 1994 drilled and completed the #5 Glasscock well as a natural gas well in the upper portion of the lower Wilcox sand section, a new reservoir for the field. The Company has recently increased its working interest to approximately 85% and plans to implement a development drilling program for 1997.
Tensas Parish Area. The Company currently has leases or options covering 32,300 acres in this area and in mid-1996 initiated an exploration and development drilling program in its St. Jo (now referred to as the Aubrey and Wilsonia Fields), Barfield and Chicago Mills prospects. The Company currently owns a 100% working interest in these three prospects. Of the eight wells drilled in 1996 in the Aubrey and Wilsonia Fields, seven were completed and one was a dry hole. Six of the completed wells targeted the lower Tuscaloosa at a depth of approximately 8,300 feet and one well targeted the Wilcox at a depth of 3,200 feet. The Company plans to drill as many as four additional wells in these fields during 1997.
The Company has 2,300 acres under lease in its Barfield prospect and has completed a six square mile 3-D seismic survey on the prospect. Three recent exploration wells were dry, but provided the Company with additional data on the geology and geophysics of the prospect. A 12,500 foot well to test the James Lime / Pettet Limestone reef is in the planning stage.
The Company has taken options on or leased approximately 27,000 acres in its Chicago Mills Prospect. A 26-square mile 3-D seismic survey has been completed on a portion of the optioned acreage and resulted in the leasing of 9,900 acres. The Company has plans to drill four exploratory wells in 1997 to test seven different prospects delineated by the seismic data. The remainder of the optioned acreage is scheduled for evaluation using 3-D seismic covering a 29-square mile area beginning in early 1997.
Rocky Mountain Properties
Big Horn Basin. This basin is located in north central Wyoming encompassing parts of Washakie, Big Horn, Hot Springs and Park counties. The Company currently has lease holdings on 101,487 gross (86,264 net) acres. The Company operates 370 wells and has additional interests in 252 non-operated wells in a total of 20 fields. The major producing properties in the basin are the Manderson Field that produces oil and gas at depths from 4,500 to 8,000 feet, the Golden Eagle Field which produces oil and gas at depths from 3,200 to 10,000 feet, the 14-Mile Field that produces oil and gas at depths from 6,000 to 11,000 feet, the Grass Creek Field that produces oil and gas at depths from 2,400 to 7,000 feet and the Sellers Draw Field that produces natural gas at depths from 15,000 to 20,000 feet.
The Manderson Field is located on a northwest-southeast trending anticlinal nose in the Big Horn Basin. The Company has expanded its holdings in the field from approximately 7,500 acres obtained in the Rocky Mountain Acquisition to more than 22,000 acres and owns a 100% working interest. The field has multiple reservoirs that are producing or potentially productive: the Phosphoria Dolomite, the Lakota sands, the Dakota sands, the Muddy sands, the Octh Louie sands, and the Frontier sands.
The Manderson Field was discovered in 1951 and 16 wells targeting the Phosphoria Dolomite were drilled primarily using 640-acre spacing from 1951 to 1954. Another well drilled in 1990 tested gas in the Phosphoria but was recompleted to the Muddy sands as a natural gas producer due to the high percentage of hydrogen sulphide present in the Phosphoria formation.
During 1996, the Company drilled 23 wells in the field, targeting the Phosphoria Dolomite at a depth of approximately 7,500 feet. As of year-end 1996, 16 of the wells have been completed at an average cost of approximately $550,000, and have tested at rates ranging from 200 to 1,900 barrels of oil per day and from 450 to 4,000 Mcf of sour gas per day. The remaining seven wells are awaiting completion.
Daily production from the field has been constrained due to limitations imposed by the State of Wyoming and the federal government on the amount of sour gas, which contains toxic hydrogen sulfide, that can be flared. In late December 1996, KCS began start-up operations of a gas reinjection system designed as an interim measure to reinject sour gas and allow for increased oil production. Severe winter weather, delays in obtaining permits, and down hole pressure constraints in the initial injection well have limited the system's full implementation. To alleviate the pressure constraints, permits for a second injection well have been applied for. In addition, a pipeline is currently being constructed to a treatment facility owned by a third-party, which could process up to an additional 2,500 Mcf per day of KCS' sour gas.
The Company's own treatment plant should be completed in April 1997 and should allow the treated gas to be marketed, with the acid gas being reinjected into a disposal well. Combined, the KCS treatment plant, the gas reinjection system and the available capacity of the third-party treatment facility should provide sufficient gas-handling capacities for at least 20,000 Mcf of gas per day, which would allow for growth in production of up to 10,000 barrels of oil per day. However, there can be no assurance that this level of production will be achieved. A second module for the Company's treatment plant is planned for service in late 1997.
In 1997, the Company plans to drill 27 wells targeting the Phosphoria. Based on current plans using 160-acre spacing per well, as many as 150 wells will be required to fully exploit the Phosphoria in the current acreage holdings. Preliminary tests indicate that 80-acre spacing may be required to efficiently drain the reservoir, indicating that substantial additional drilling opportunities may exist. KCS currently has two rigs drilling to the Phosphoria and one rig drilling to test the other formations. Ten wells targeting the other sands are planned for 1997. Drilling results to date, coupled with the acquisition of additional seismic data, indicate that the field has very significant potential.
Sweet Grass Arch. The Company has an interest in 79,539 gross (57,904 net) acres in this major producing area located in Toole County, Montana. The Company currently operates 202 wells and has interests in six non-operated wells in the area. The most important oil producing property in the area is the Homestake Field, where the Company currently operates 67 wells. The Homestake Field produces from the Sunburst sand at depths ranging from 1,400 to 1,700 feet. Discovered in 1922, the field was actively developed during the 1936-1941 period and again in the mid-1960s. During that latter period, a waterflood project was initiated with little success due primarily to lack of wellbore integrity. During the late 1980s, two new wells were drilled in an attempt to revive the field again with little success because of poor completion techniques. The Company has begun an active development program designed to improve wellbore integrity, utilize state-of-the-art completion techniques and redesign the secondary recovery project. The Company initiated the program in September 1996 and during 1996 drilled 16 wells. Of these, eight wells have been completed, tied into facilities and tested at a combined rate of 500 barrels of oil per day. The recent drilling activity is believed to have substantially increased the productive area of the field. The Company plans to drill an additional 15 wells in the Homestake Field in 1997. In addition to the existing production, the Company owns five natural gas gathering systems consisting of approximately 200 miles of pipeline that currently gathers approximately 1,700 Mcf per day of third-party natural gas.
Medallion Acquisition Properties
Sawyer Canyon Field. Medallion's holdings in the Sawyer Canyon Field, located in Sutton County, Texas, were purchased in April 1996 from Enron Oil & Gas Company. Medallion owns interests in 342 gross (306 net) wells, of which it operates 329 gross (306 net) wells. Medallion's average working interest in this field is 89%, and its leasehold position consists of approximately 34,887 gross (34,053 net) acres.
The main producing formation in the Sawyer Canyon Field in the Canyon sandstone at a depth of approximately 5,500 feet. Natural gas in the Canyon formation is stratigraphically trapped in the lenticular sandstone reservoirs. A typical Sawyer Canyon Field well encounters multiple productive reservoirs within the 800 to 1,400 foot thickness of the Canyon formation. These Canyon reservoirs tend to be discontinuous and generally exhibit lower porosity and permeability, characteristics which reduce the area that can be effectively drained by a single well to units as small as 40 acres.
ArkLaTex Area. Medallion's reserve holdings in the ArkLaTex Area are located primarily in Bossier, Claiborne, Lincoln, and Union Parishes in north Louisiana. Medallion owns an interest in 193 gross (64 net) wells of which 43 gross (37 net) wells are operated by the Company. Medallion's average working interest in its ArkLaTex Area operated wells is approximately 86%. Production in the ArkLaTex Area is primarily from the Hosston, Cotton Valley and Haynesville formations of Cretaceous and Jurassic age at depths of 5,500 to 10,000 feet. These formations are lower permeability sandstones which were developed on 640-acre spacing and require advanced fracture stimulations to drain the reserves in place adequately.
Medallion's largest concentration of reserves in the ArkLaTex Area is in the Elm Grove Field, Bossier Parish, Louisiana. Production from the Elm Grove Field is primarily natural gas from the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations at depths of 7,000 to 9,600 feet. Medallion owns an interest in 39 gross (25 net) wells, of which 28 gross (25 net) wells are operated by Medallion. Medallion's operated leasehold position consists of approximately 5,760 gross (5,649 net) acres. Since Medallion acquired its first interest in the Elm Grove Field in 1994, it has drilled 11 productive development wells, recompleted several of the existing wells to access behind pipe reserves and discovered a deeper productive zone not previously produced in the field.
Anadarko Basin Area. Medallion's Anadarko Basin properties are located in northwest Oklahoma and the Texas panhandle. Medallion owns an interest in 372 gross (102 net) wells, of which it operates 154 gross (83 net) wells.
The majority of the Medallion's properties in this area are located on the Northern Shelf and predominately produce natural gas from various formations of Pennsylvanian and Pre-Pennsylvanian age at depths of 7,000 to 12,000 feet. Medallion's Mills Ranch Field, operated by Chevron, is in the deeper part of the basin with production from depths of 10,000 to 20,000 feet. Pre-Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Mississippi, Chester and Hunton formations and are typically fractured carbonates. Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Redfork, Atoka and Morrow sandstones.
VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT AND UNDERLYING PRINCIPAL PROPERTIES
The following table shows, as of December 31, 1996 the oil and gas deliveries to the Company that are scheduled to be made pursuant to its VPP program over the period 1997 through 2007.
The properties underlying the volumetric production payment program are primarily located in two major regions, the Gulf Coast and the Niagaran Reef trend in northern and southern Michigan.
Gulf Coast Properties
The Company's Gulf Coast properties are located in 16 blocks offshore Louisiana and Alabama and one onshore Texas well. The leases offshore Louisiana, in the federal waters, deliver the predominant oil and gas volumes under the Company's VPP program. As of December 31, 1996, proved reserves attributable to all Gulf Coast properties from which KCS will receive its VPP volumes were 40,587 MMcf and 240 Mbbls. Pursuant to its agreements, the Company received 11,061 MMcf in 1996 and is scheduled to receive 10,168 MMcf and 77 Mbbls in 1997 and 4,574 MMcf and 47 Mbbls in 1998.
Niagaran Reef Trend Properties in Michigan
The Company's northern and southern Niagaran Reef trend properties, located in Michigan, were acquired in December 1995. The VPP program reserves are expected to be produced largely from an existing group of 89 wells located in 49 fields. Additional reserves available to support the production payment may be derived from a series of recompletions scheduled during 1997 and from certain reserves to be developed by the operator in an area of mutual interest covering the Niagaran Reef trend pursuant to an exploration program with a third party. The Niagaran Reef reservoirs are typically found at depths between 4,000 and 6,500 feet. An independent petroleum engineer estimated at December 31, 1996 that 12,725 MMcf and 868 Mbbls were attributed to the operator's interest in these properties to support the production payment, with approximately 80% of the reserves attributable to 17 wells. Of the remaining 11,060 MMcf and 803 Mbbls to be delivered under the volumetric production payment, the Company was scheduled to receive 2,476 MMcf and 205 Mbbls in 1997, with the balance to be delivered between 1998 and 2006.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
All information in this Form 10-K relating to estimates of the Company's proved reserves not associated with the volumetric production payment program is based on reports prepared by independent petroleum engineers (principally Ryder Scott Company, R.A. Lenser and Associates, Inc. and H. J. Gruy and Associates, Inc.) each in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. These independent reserve engineers' estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company or third party operators.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1996, summary information with respect to (i) the estimates made by the independent reserve engineers of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves attributable to working interests and (ii) the reserve amounts contracted for pursuant to the agreements relating to volumetric production payments. The present value of future net revenues in the table should not be construed to be the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by the Company.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and future amounts and timing of development expenditures, including underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are inherently less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, geologic success and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, the present value shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, the estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of natural gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. Other than gas sold under contractual arrangements including swaps, futures contracts and options, gas prices were $3.54 per Mcf and oil prices were $22.45 per bbl at December 31, 1996. The prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil, are subject to substantial seasonal fluctuations, and prices for each are subject to substantial fluctuations as a result of numerous other factors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company's developed and undeveloped leased acreage as of December 31, 1996. The leases in which the Company has an interest are for varying primary terms, and many require the payment of delay rentals to continue the primary term. The leases may be surrendered by the operator at any time by notice to the lessors, by the cessation of production, fulfillment of commitments, or by failure to make timely payments of delay rentals. Excluded from the table are the Company's interests in the properties subject to volumetric production payments.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted through arrangements with independent contractors. Certain information with regard to the Company's drilling activities during the years ended December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996, is set forth below.
At December 31, 1996, the Company was participating in the drilling or completion of 15 gross (8.5 net) wells.
PRODUCTION AND SALES
The following table presents certain information with respect to oil and gas production attributable to the Company's properties, average sales prices and average production costs during the three years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994.
Other Facilities
Principal offices of the Company and its operating subsidiaries are leased in modern office buildings in Edison, New Jersey (10,000 square feet), Houston, Texas (25,000 square feet) and Tulsa, Oklahoma (17,000 square feet). In Worland, Wyoming, the Rocky Mountain operations are based in a 10,000 square foot Company-owned facility and in Conroe, Texas, the intrastate transmission system operations are based in an 1,800 square foot Company-owned facility.
The Company believes that all of its property, plant and equipment are well maintained, in good operating condition and suitable for the purposes for which they are used.
Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors
Current and prospective stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in the Company. The information discussed herein includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein regarding planned capital expenditures, increases in oil and gas production, the number of anticipated wells to be drilled after the date hereof, the Company's financial position, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they do involve certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, and the Company can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the timing and success of the Company's drilling activities, the volatility of prices and supply and demand for oil and gas, the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves and actual future production rates and associated costs, the usual hazards associated with the oil and gas industry (including blowouts, cratering, pipe failure, spills, explosions and other unforeseen hazards), and increases in regulatory requirements, some of which risks (as well as others) are described more fully elsewhere in this report.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirely by such factors.
Item 3.