Item 2. PROPERTIES, Coal Reserves, on page 8. Based upon limited information obtained from preliminary prospecting, drilling and coal seam analysis, the Company estimates that a substantial portion of this coal has a sulfur content of 1 percent or less, some of which is compliance coal. Sulfur content of 1 percent or less refers to percentage by weight, while "compliance coal" is coal which emits 1.2 pounds or less of sulfur dioxide per million BTU upon combustion without the aid of sulfur reduction technology.
OPERATIONS
MINGO LOGAN COAL COMPANY
Mingo Logan Coal Company (Mingo Logan), an independent operating subsidiary of the Company, conducts its operations in Mingo County, West Virginia, on approximately 20,600 acres containing approximately 110 million recoverable tons of low-sulfur and compliance coal.
Mingo Logan's operations consist of surface mining operations conducted by two independent contract miners, four underground mines operated by two other independent contract miners, and a longwall mine (Mountaineer Mine) operated by Mingo Logan. Mingo Logan's Black Bear preparation plant has a plant feed capacity of 1,600 tons per hour, and is connected to the Mountaineer Mine by a 2-mile overland conveyor. The Black Bear preparation plant is connected to the loadout on the Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern) railroad by a second overland conveyor that is approximately seven-tenths of a mile in length. The preparation plant, loadout and conveyors are located on land leased from Pocahontas Land Corporation, an affiliate of Norfolk Southern. The Black Bear preparation plant and loadout have silo storage capacity of approximately 19,500 tons of raw coal and approximately 24,000 tons of clean coal, respectively. In addition, the loadout has ground storage capacity of approximately 100,000 tons. The loadout facility is capable of loading a 13,000-ton unit train in less than four hours. Mingo Logan operations produced approximately 7 million tons of coal during 1993.
DAL-TEX COAL CORPORATION
Dal-Tex, an independent operating subsidiary of the Company, conducts its operations on approximately 22,000 acres of coal lands located primarily in Logan County, West Virginia, containing approximately 214 million tons of recoverable reserves of low-sulfur and compliance coal. Dal-Tex's operations currently consist of two surface mines operated by a Dal-Tex subsidiary using mountaintop removal techniques and three deep mines, two operated by a Dal-Tex subsidiary and one operated by a contract miner. At the surface mines, two 51-cubic-yard shovels and other large excavators are used for overburden removal. Continuous miner units are utilized in the deep mine operations. The Dal-Tex operations include the Monclo preparation plant located on the CSX Transportation (CSXT) rail
system which is capable of a raw coal feed of 2,000 tons per hour. This plant is capable of loading a 14,000-ton unit train in less than four hours. Approximately 2.8 million tons of coal were produced at all of the Dal-Tex operations during 1993.
HOBET MINING, INC.
Hobet, an independent operating subsidiary of the Company, operates two large surface mines in southern West Virginia. The Hobet 21 mine in Boone County, West Virginia, currently has reserves dedicated to it of approximately 62 million recoverable tons of coal, of which 42 million tons are recoverable by surface mining. This mine uses mountaintop removal techniques and modern surface mining equipment, including a 72-cubic-yard walking dragline and a 51-cubic-yard shovel. The mine's operations include the 850-ton-per-hour Beth Station preparation plant. The Company expects to expand the raw coal handling and blending capabilities of this plant by late 1994 or early 1995. A 5-mile overland conveyor belt system transports the coal from the mine to the Beth Station preparation plant where the coal is cleaned and loaded into railcars at the adjacent 125-car rail siding for shipment on the CSXT rail system. The Beth Station preparation plant has a storage capacity in silos of 5,000 tons of raw coal and 10,000 tons of clean coal. The Hobet 21 mine produced about 1.5 million marketable tons of coal during 1993. A new underground mine with an initial production rate of 250,000 tons per year is planned to be opened at the Hobet 21 mine in the third quarter of 1994.
The Hobet 07 mine, located in Mingo and Logan Counties, West Virginia, currently has reserves dedicated to it of approximately 42 million recoverable tons of coal. This mine uses mountaintop removal techniques and modern surface mining equipment including a 72-cubic-yard walking dragline and two 27-cubic-yard shovels. The mine's operations include the 950-ton-per-hour Pine Creek preparation plant. This plant has the capability of loading a 10,000-ton unit train in less than eight hours. Coal is loaded into railcars on the facility's 100-car rail siding, which is served by the CSXT rail system. The Pine Creek preparation plant has a storage capacity in silos of 10,000 tons of raw coal and 15,000 tons of clean coal. This mine produced about .8 million marketable tons of coal during 1993. It is currently anticipated that operations at the Hobet 07 mine will be suspended by the end of the decade based on current coal price and mining cost projections. See the Outlook section of Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS beginning on page 13 below.
COAL-MAC, INC.
Coal-Mac, Inc. (Coal-Mac), another independent operating subsidiary of the Company, conducts mining operations in eastern Kentucky. Coal-Mac and other subsidiaries of the Company control approximately 51 million recoverable tons of coal reserves in Johnson, Martin, Pike, and Floyd Counties, Kentucky. Coal-Mac operates surface mines and independent contractors operate underground mines in Floyd County, Kentucky. Total production from Coal-Mac's surface and underground operations during 1993 was approximately 2.0 million tons of coal.
TRANSPORTATION
Coal from the mines of the Company's independent operating subsidiaries is transported by rail, truck and barge to domestic customers and to inland waterway and Atlantic seaboard transloading facilities for shipment to international customers. During 1993, approximately 74% of the coal sold by the Company was shipped to the customer by rail, 21% was shipped by barge and 5% was shipped by truck.
Tri-State Terminals, Inc., an independent operating subsidiary of the Company, operates the Lockwood Dock situated on a 60-acre tract on the Big Sandy River approximately seven miles upstream from its confluence with the Ohio River. The Lockwood Dock is comprised of a truck receiving and coal storage facility, a 1,400-ton-per-hour crushing and blending facility and a barge loading facility capable of loading a 1,500-ton barge every 70 minutes. In addition, coal sold through this facility may be loaded into trucks for delivery to customers. During 1993, 3.6 million tons of coal
were loaded and shipped from the Lockwood Dock. Of this amount, 3.2 million tons were loaded and shipped for the Company's account and .4 million tons were loaded and shipped for third parties for a fee.
The Company owns a 17.5 percent interest in Dominion Terminal Associates (DTA), which leases and operates a ground storage-to-vessel coal transloading facility (the DTA Facility) in Newport News, Virginia. The DTA Facility has a throughput capacity of 20 million tons of coal per year and ground storage capacity of approximately 1.7 million tons. During 1993, DTA loaded through the DTA Facility approximately 1.0 million tons of coal for the Company's account. The DTA Facility serves international customers, as well as domestic coal users located on the eastern seaboard of the United States. For additional information concerning the Company's investment in DTA, see Note 4 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements on page 27 below, and incorporated by reference in this Item 1.
EMPLOYEES
As of March 1, 1994, the Company and its independent operating subsidiaries employed a total of 1,687 people (including 24 part-time employees), of whom 772 are represented by the UMWA. Hobet and the Dal-Tex Subsidiaries were signatories to the 1988 Wage Agreement, which expired by its terms on February 1, 1993. On February 2, 1993, a selective strike was commenced by the UMWA against another coal company, which strike later expanded to other coal companies. The operations of the Company's independent operating subsidiaries were not interrupted by that strike, but pursuant to an agreement (Assistance Agreement) among members of the BCOA, Hobet and the Dal-Tex Subsidiaries made payments for the benefit of BCOA members that were struck. The selective strike ended and obligations in respect of such strike under the Assistance Agreement also ended on March 2, 1993, when the UMWA and BCOA agreed to extend the 1988 Wage Agreement to May 3, 1993. However, on May 18, 1993, each of Hobet and the Dal-Tex Subsidiaries were struck by the UMWA. On December 16, 1993, union miners returned to work at the mines of Hobet and the Dal-Tex Subsidiaries following ratification of the Wage Agreement on December 14, 1993. The Wage Agreement provides for a total wage increase of $1.30 per hour over the first three years of the contract, changes in medical coverage providing for deductibles and copayments, more flexible work rules that will permit coal production to take place 24 hours a day and seven days a week, increases in employer contributions to an education and retraining fund, and employer contributions to fund the new Labor Management Positive Change Program and the new 1993 Benefit Fund created by the Wage Agreement. The contract provisions of the Wage Agreement applicable to wages, pensions and medical benefits are fixed for the first three years of the contract, but thereafter wages and pension benefits are subject to renegotiation at the UMWA's election and certain provisions of the medical plan are subject to renegotiation at either the UMWA's or the BCOA's election. The Labor Management Positive Change Program mandated by the Wage Agreement establishes a board comprised of union and management representatives to explore methods of increasing productivity and efficiency.
In connection with the Wage Agreement, the UMWA and BCOA also entered into a Memorandum of Understanding that requires that certain jobs at mines of Ashland Coal's nonunion subsidiaries be offered to UMWA miners under the following conditions. At any existing, new or newly acquired operation of a nonunion subsidiary of Ashland Coal, the subsidiary must offer the first three of every five job openings for certain jobs to active and laid-off employees of any union subsidiary. The first two jobs must be filled from among the senior laid-off and active miners of any union subsidiary of the Company provided such miners have the ability to step in and perform the job at the time the job is awarded. The third job must be filled with the senior laid-off or active miner of any union subsidiary provided such miner has the ability to step in and perform the work of the job at the time the job is awarded and has actually performed the job within the last three years. The final two out of five jobs may be filled from any source at the sole discretion of the nonunion subsidiary's management. Similarly, Ashland Coal's nonunion coal mining subsidiaries must require certain of their lessees, licensees, contractors and subcontractors that are engaged after the date of execution of the Memorandum of Understanding to offer the first three of every five job openings for certain jobs to active
and laid-off UMWA-represented employees at any Ashland Coal union subsidiary. Generally, this requirement applies only where both (i) the lessees, licensees, contractors and subcontractors produce and process coal for the nonunion subsidiaries and (ii) the coal is sold by the nonunion subsidiaries. Ashland Coal's union subsidiaries do not currently have any laid-off union workers. Finally, the Memorandum of Understanding prohibits Ashland Coal and its nonunion subsidiaries from engaging in any transaction, restructuring or reorganization for the purpose of evading obligations under the Memorandum of Understanding. For additional discussion, see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS beginning below on page 11. The Company believes that the provisions of the Wage Agreement and the Memorandum of Understanding, taken as a whole, will not significantly change the costs experienced under the 1988 Wage Agreement.
REGULATIONS AFFECTING COAL MINING
Coal mining is subject to strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities, including, most significantly, with respect to permitting and environmental matters and health and safety matters.
PERMITTING AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Numerous permits are required for mining operations. The Company believes all permits required to conduct present mining operations have been obtained. The Company believes that, upon the filing of the required information with the appropriate regulatory agencies, all permits necessary for continuing operations will be obtained.
The federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA) was enacted to regulate certain surface mining of coal and the surface effects of underground mining. Kentucky and West Virginia have similar laws and regulations regulating surface and deep mining that impose, among other requirements, reclamation and environmental requirements and standards.
The federal Clean Water Act affects coal mining operations by imposing effluent discharge restrictions on pollutants discharged into waters. Kentucky and West Virginia also have laws restricting discharges of pollutants into the waters of those states. In addition, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has permitting requirements for storm water discharges from industrial facilities. These regulations require permits for some aspects of mining operations. Regular monitoring, as well as compliance with reporting requirements and performance standards, are preconditions for the issuance and renewal of permits governing the discharge of pollutants into waters. Further, as a result of a recent court decision, mining operations may be subject to Clean Water Act regulations for discharges into some ponds created to treat coal mining wastes. Previously, these ponds were not considered waters regulated by the Clean Water Act. Kentucky and West Virginia are also developing groundwater protection programs, but such programs have not been implemented and consequently the effect such programs may have on coal mining operations is unclear.
The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and implementing federal regulations exclude from the definition of hazardous waste all coal extraction, beneficiation and processing wastes. Additionally, other coal mining wastes which are subject to a SMCRA permit are exempt from RCRA permits and standards. Kentucky and West Virginia similarly exempt coal mine waste from their respective state hazardous waste laws and regulations. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, affects coal mining operations by imposing a cleanup requirement for threatened or actual releases of hazardous substances, other than the foregoing exempted hazardous waste, that may endanger public health or welfare or the environment.
The federal Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, imposes numerous requirements on various categories of emission sources. While the new statutory requirements do not directly impose new requirements on coal mining emission sources, it is possible that the EPA will implement the statute in a way that will impose additional regulatory requirements on industry sources including a duty to obtain an operating permit not previously required. The EPA previously published rules which do not
require coal mines to include fugitive emissions in determining the applicability of the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration Program. Although this rule was challenged, the rule was upheld and no appeal to the decision was filed. In addition, West Virginia state air regulations impose permitting obligations and performance standards on certain coal preparation plants and coal handling facilities such as crushers and screeners.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS
The federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 imposes health and safety standards on all mining operations. Regulations are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, blasting and the equipment used in mining operations. The Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977 generally requires each coal mine operator to secure payment of federal and state black lung benefits to its employees through insurance, bonds or contributions to a state-controlled fund. The Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977 also provides for the payment from a trust fund of benefits and medical expenses to employees for whom no benefits have been obtainable from their employer. This trust is financed by a tax on coal sales.
The Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 (Benefit Act) addressed two underfunded trust funds which were to provide medical benefits for certain UMWA retirees. The Benefit Act provides for the funding of medical and death benefits for certain retired members of the UMWA through premiums to be paid by assigned operators (former employers), transfers of monies from an overfunded pension trust established for the benefit of retired UMWA members, and transfers from the Abandoned Mine Lands Fund, which is funded by a federal tax on coal production. This funding arrangement commenced February 1, 1993. Some former employers have filed suits challenging the constitutionality of the Benefit Act, but the eventual outcome of such litigation is uncertain.
COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY
The Company's independent operating subsidiaries endeavor to conduct their operations in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, because of the extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations during mining operations are not unusual in the industry. Mingo Logan and Dal-Tex are each a party to civil proceedings as a result of alleged failures to comply with mandatory federal or state health and safety regulations. Each of these proceedings involves a fatality and could result in the imposition of civil penalties. The Company believes that any adverse result, if incurred, would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Hobet, Sharples Coal Company, which is a subsidiary of Dal-Tex, Mingo Logan and other unrelated coal mining companies, individually, are parties to a civil proceeding with respect to the alleged failure of each of them to handle a respirable dust sampling cassette in accordance with regulations of the Mine Safety and Health Administration. Violations of federal and state health and safety regulations can result in civil and criminal penalties. To date, the monetary penalties assessed in respect of violations of these regulations have not been material and the Company does not anticipate that future assessments in respect of violations to date will be material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Mingo Logan is a party to civil and administrative proceedings brought by owners of commercial surface property overlying part of Mingo Logan's Mountaineer Mine. These proceedings seek revocation of mining permits for the Mountaineer Mine and seek damages for alleged business disruptions and loss of a water well. It is unlikely that Mingo Logan's mining permits will be revoked as a result of these proceedings. It is impossible to predict the outcome of the damage claim at this stage of the proceedings, but any adverse result, if incurred, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
The Company is not aware of any existing conditions on property in which it has an ownership or other interest that would give rise to material liability under federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations or ordinances.
The Company believes that continued compliance with regulatory standards will not substantially affect its ability to compete with similarly situated coal mining companies. The cost of regulatory compliance, however, frequently increases the cost of mining coal and to this extent makes coal less competitive with alternative fuels.
TRADEMARKS AND TRADENAMES
Under an agreement executed in 1993, Ashland Oil, Inc. (Ashland Oil) granted the Company permission to continue using the Ashland name on a year to year basis after August 11, 1993, absent written notice from Ashland Oil to cease using the name at the end of the then applicable one year period. The Company also is permitted to use Ashland trademarks until July 1, 1994. If Ashland Oil's ownership in the Company ever falls below 35%, Ashland Oil may require the Company to remove the name Ashland from the Company's and its subsidiaries' names.
RELIANCE ON MAJOR CUSTOMERS
The Company's total sales to subsidiaries of American Electric Power Company and Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company accounted for approximately 20 and 16 percent, respectively, of the Company's total revenues in 1993. The loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
COMPETITION
The coal industry is highly competitive, and the Company competes (principally in price, location and quality of coal) with a large number of other coal producers, some of which are substantially larger and have greater financial resources and larger reserve bases than the Company. Most long-term supply agreements and spot market orders are the result of competitive bidding. Coal also competes with other energy sources such as oil, natural gas, hydropower and nuclear energy for steam and electrical power generation. Over time, the cost and other factors, such as safety and environmental considerations, relating to these alternative fuels will affect the overall demand for coal as a fuel.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1993, the Company's subsidiaries controlled, primarily through long-term leases, approximately 130,604 and 114,581 acres of coal lands in West Virginia and eastern Kentucky, respectively. The Company's subsidiaries also control through ownership or long-term leases 917 acres of land in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia, which are used either for its coal processing facilities or are being held for possible future development. The Pine Creek, Beth Station and Black Bear preparation plants are located on properties held under leases which expire in 2030, 2022 and 2007 (with an optional 20-year extension), respectively. The Company's headquarters occupy approximately 52,000 square feet of leased space at 2205 Fifth Street Road, Huntington, West Virginia. The headquarters lease expires March 31, 1998. The descriptions of the Mingo Logan, Dal-Tex, Hobet and Coal-Mac mines set forth above in Item 1. BUSINESS are hereby incorporated into this Item 2. by reference.
The Company's subsidiaries currently own or lease the equipment that is significant to their mining operations. Hobet leases equipment under leases that expire in 2003 and 1995. Hobet and Dal-Tex also utilize surface mining equipment leased pursuant to a sale and leaseback transaction entered into in January 1993. The lease term expires in January 1996. For further information about this 1993 transaction see Note 18 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements on page 36 below.
The Company, through its subsidiaries, owns a 17.5 percent interest in DTA, which is the lessee and operator of a ground storage-to-vessel coal transloading facility at Newport News, Virginia (see Item 1. BUSINESS -- Transportation).
COAL RESERVES
The Company estimates that Company subsidiaries had, as of December 31, 1993, approximately 723 million recoverable tons of proven and probable coal reserves. Reserve totals vary from year to year for each Company subsidiary depending upon the amount of coal mined in any year, the acquisition and disposition of reserves in such year and exploration and development activity. The following table presents the Company's estimate of such reserves:
RECOVERABLE COAL
Substantially all of the coal reserves held by the Company's subsidiaries are controlled by leases which will not expire until the exhaustion of minable and merchantable coal. The remaining leases have primary terms expiring in various years ranging from 1994 to 2013, and most contain options to renew for stated periods. Royalties are paid to lessors either as a fixed price per ton or as a percentage of the gross sales price of the mined coal. The majority of the significant leases are on a percentage royalty basis. In certain cases a lease bonus is required, payable either at the time of execution of the lease or in annual installments following such execution. In most cases, the lease bonus amount is applied to reduce future production royalties. Subsidiaries of the Company own, lease or control 28,679 acres of coal lands upon which exploration has not been conducted.
Federal and state legislation controlling air pollution affects the demand for certain types of coal by limiting the amount of sulfur dioxide which may be emitted as a result of fuel combustion and, thereby, encourages a greater demand for low-sulfur coal. Based upon limited information obtained from preliminary prospecting, drilling and coal seam analysis, the Company estimates that a substantial portion of the reserves held by Company subsidiaries consists of low-sulfur coal with a sulfur content of 1 percent or less, some of which is compliance coal. Most of the Company's reserves are primarily suitable for the steam coal markets. However, a substantial portion of the coal reserves at Mingo Logan may also be used as a high-volatile, low-sulfur metallurgical grade coal.
The net book value, based on historical cost, of such mineral reserves at December 31, 1993, was $460 million, consisting of $15 million of prepaid royalties included in current assets, $54 million of prepaid royalties classified as an other asset and $391 million net book value of coal lands and mineral rights. Of this carrying value, approximately $31 million is attributable to certain reserves which are not currently in production and for which there are no current plans for significant production. In addition, as of December 31, 1993, future royalty commitments relating to these properties were approximately $3 million. See Note 6 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on Page 28 below and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.
Consistent with industry practice, a limited investigation of title to coal properties is conducted prior to leasing. The titles of the lessors or grantors and the boundaries of leased properties are not completely verified until such time as the Company's independent operating subsidiaries prepare to mine such reserves. If defects in title or boundaries of undeveloped reserves are discovered in the future, control of and the right to mine such reserves could be adversely affected.
ITEM 3.