ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company owns, or controls through leases and mining claims, 99,019 acres of mining and mineral exploration properties within the state of Utah. The properties are categorized into project areas. Table 2.1 provides an overview of the Company's projects in terms of acreage and the nature of the property holding.
COMPANY DRILL RIGS AND DRILLING CAPABILITY
The Company has pursued a vigorous equipment acquisition plan since fiscal 1995. In that year the Company purchased a track-mounted percussion drill with a depth capability of 250 feet. During fiscal 1996, the Company purchased three additional exploration drill rigs and accessory equipment: (1) a Longyear Model 44 diamond core drill that has a depth capability in excess of 2,000 feet; (2) a CP 650 drill, which is a truck-mounted reverse circulation rotary drill that has a depth capability of 1500 feet; and (3) a Bazooka drill, which is an air- powered drill designed for drilling core underground and has a depth capability of 150 feet. Also during fiscal years 1995 and 1996, the Company acquired accessory equipment including two water trucks, two air compressors, drill steel, tools and four support trucks. During fiscal 1996, the Company engaged the qualified services of trained personnel to operate these drill rigs at the OK Copper Mine, Kings Canyon, Tintic, and Blue Mountain project areas, as shown above in Table 2.2.
COMPANY ASSAY LAB
During fiscal 1996, the Company also began the installation of a complete professional level assay lab at its Mammoth, Utah office, and engaged the services of experienced professionals and staff to conduct the Company's assay work. This assay lab is scheduled to be completed during the second quarter of fiscal 1997. Thereafter, the Company anticipates that it will not be dependent upon the services of outside assay labs for its production assay work, instead relying upon outside labs only for necessary verification. This should reduce delays in receiving assay results and hasten exploration and mine development based on such assay results.
COMPANY PROJECTS
The Company's projects hold excellent potential for significant mineral discoveries. During fiscal 1996 the Company focused considerable time and money on mineral exploration at the Kings Canyon Project. Also during fiscal 1996, the Company established a complete surface support facility for mining and exploration at its Tintic Project, and began renovation of the Mammoth mine shaft in preparation of future production.
The Company has prioritized its projects for fiscal 1997, as it did for fiscal 1996, in terms of its goal of generating cash flow from production and increasing shareholder value through mineral discovery. In fiscal 1996, for example, the Company entered a joint venture with BHP Minerals at the "Little Bingham" property in West Tintic, thereby increasing capital expenditures through the participation of a larger mining company. For fiscal 1997, the OK Copper Mine-South Utah Project holds the best potential for generating near-term cash flow from mine production. Also during 1997, the Company is actively pursuing joint venture partners for both its Kings Canyon and Tintic projects.
The following sections discuss the OK Mine-South Utah Copper Project, the Kings Canyon Project, and the Tintic Project in detail. A final section reviews the property potential of the Company's other less-advanced projects. (However, because the terms of the BHP-Centurion joint venture are discussed above in Item 1, under the heading entitled "Joint Ventures", it is not discussed further in Item 2.)
OK OPEN PIT MINE - SOUTH UTAH COPPER PROJECT (OK MINE PROJECT): - --------------------------------------------------------------- The Company's 8,685 acre OK Mine Project is located about 10 miles northwest of Milford, Utah. The project property is centered around the Company-owned OK Mine which contains significant proven and probable oxide copper reserves. The Company operates the OK Project through its 100 percent owned subsidiary, Dotson Exploration Company ("Dotson Exploration"), and intends to construct a solvent-extraction electrowinning (SX/EW) copper recovery plant at the OK Mine during fiscal 1997. From the copper reserves mined in the project area, the plant will produce 99.998 percent pure copper cathodes for sale to manufacturers and commodity brokers. This production effort is at the heart of the Company's near-term business plan. The Company intends to apply a portion of the cash flow from sales of these copper cathodes towards the funding of continued exploration and development on its other mineral properties, with the long-term view goal of increasing shareholder value.
The OK Mine property is situated in the Beaver Lake mining district, which was established in the late 1800's, and produced gold and silver, as well as copper and other base metals. The previous operators of the OK Mine ceased production in 1974 when the average ore grade dropped below 1 percent copper, leaving a large tonnage of mineralized rock. Because of advances in SX/EW copper recovery technology, this mineralization has been determined to be mineable at a profit, even at substantially lower grades than 1 percent copper.
In addition to the proven and probable copper reserves in the OK Mine, the surrounding property contains widespread oxide copper mineralization at the surface and outstanding potential for the discovery of proven oxide copper mineralized resources at depth. The property also has potential for a large-tonnage, buried copper- molybdenum porphyry deposit. The Company is currently conducting an aggressive drill program on the property to increase the proven oxide copper reserves and to explore for a large buried porphyry copper deposit.
In January 1996, the Company hired the HMS Co., an independent mine planning firm, to complete a preliminary feasibility study for the OK Mine based on Company drilling results completed through 1995. HMS calculated ore reserves using the cross-sectional method with a cutoff of 0.2 percent copper at the surface increasing to 0.3 percent at levels below 500 feet. The HMS calculations indicate that the OK contains 1,900,000 tons of proven-probable ore grading 0.623 percent copper. Low grade ore dumps which the previous operators had stockpiled in anticipation of higher copper prices total an additional 1,973,000 tons of proven-probable ore grading 0.319 percent copper. Based on HMS recommendations, the Company completed a comprehensive surveying and backhoe sampling program in July 1996 to determine the tonnage and grade of the stockpiles as reported here. This tonnage of in-place and stockpiled ore, which contains about 36 million pounds of copper, is sufficient for the first four years of mining with SX/EW copper recovery methods. HMS also estimated that the potential resource outside the existing OK Mine pit totaled 6,000,000 tons grading 0.5 percent copper. HMS based this estimate on scattered drill results, surface geochemical sampling and geologic mapping. HMS concluded in its March 14, 1996 report:
"The OK Copper Mine Project is viable, and has the potential to generate a positive annual cash flow of more than $5,000,000. Development should proceed at the OK Mine, with the aim of bringing the mine into production in 1997."
Based on the favorable preliminary feasibility study, the Company hired Mr. Rick Havenstrite as OK Project Manager, and Mr. Bill McCombs as OK Mine Construction Manager and Process Superintendent in April 1996. The two men had worked together from 1992 to 1996 at Arimetco's Yerington, Nevada copper mine and SX/EW plant as General Manager and SX/EW and Construction Superintendent, respectively. Havenstrite is a registered professional mining engineer (Nevada #7210) with 16 years of mining experience. McCombs has completed three years of university level engineering training and has 23 years experience in management of SX/EW mining operations.
Under the direction of Havenstrite and McCombs, support personnel of the Company began work on permit applications for the OK Project in April 1996. By the end of fiscal 1996, the Company had received the following permits: (1) Special Use Permit from Beaver County, Utah; (2) Power Line Right-of-Way Permit from the US Bureau of Land Management and the Utah Highway Department; and (3) Ground Water Usage Permit from the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. Under the Groundwater Usage Permit, the Company completed two water wells for the Project. Water supply at the Project site is plentiful and more than adequate for the planned SX/EW operation. The Company has authorization to complete a third water well when desired.
As of the date of this filing, the Company's Air Quality Permit and Ground Water Discharge Permit applications were under review by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality, and the Company's Reclamation Plan Permit application was under review by the Utah Department of Oil, Gas and Mining. The Company expects to receive these three permits during or following the second quarter of fiscal 1997. To the Company's knowledge, no federal permits are required for either air quality, reclamation or ground water because the OK will operate on the Company's Dotson Exploration-owned private property. Dotson Exploration has completed all state-required archeological and environmental surveys for the OK Project. The State of Utah requires no further archeological, plant and wildlife studies because no archeological sites or endangered species of plants or animals are currently known to exist in the Project area.
In its report of March 14, 1996, HMS recommended that the Company complete exploration drilling along a 500 foot wide and 3000 foot long fault zone which trends roughly east of the existing OK pit. This fault zone is known as the "OK-Mary I Trend" because it connects the OK Mine with the historic Mary I underground prospect about 2,000 feet east of the OK. Beginning in April 1996, the Company completed 22 reverse circulation and 28 air-track percussion holes along the OK-Mary I trend for a total of 12,740 feet of drilling on the property during fiscal year 1996. The Company intends to continue drilling during the first and second quarters of 1997 and then complete a new comprehensive reserve calculation. Preliminary results of drilling around the Mary I prospect are particularly favorable. The ore at the Mary I exists near-surface and will require minimal stripping. It is the Company's forward-looking projection, based on all indications to date, that the estimate by HMS, which calculates an additional 6 million tons of mineral resources, suggests a conservative assessment of the property potential.
The Company estimates that the construction of the SX/EW plant and the commencement of mining operations at the OK will require an estimated $6 million, and be completed within six months. Cash flow from sales of copper cathode are expected to be generated within the first quarter of operations. Thereafter, the Company anticipates that the OK Mine Project will finance all of the Company's operations internally through continued sales of copper cathode.
KINGS CANYON PROJECT: - --------------------- Kings Canyon is a large, high quality, grass-roots gold exploration property first identified in 1988. Centurion's project area of 45,795 acres lies about 60 miles west of the town of Delta, Utah, and is accessible by US Highways 6 and 56 and by improved gravel and dirt roads. The property has no previous mining history. Electrical and water supply are available near or within the project area for mining operations.
The Kings Canyon area is host to widespread gold mineralization and geochemical anomalies over 50 square miles. Although Kings Canyon is a "grass roots" project, the Main Discovery Area contains a drilled out, shallow gold deposit which contains more than 200,000 ounces of gold upon which Centurion owns a 4 percent production royalty interest. Cash costs for this discovery were less than $10 per ounce of contained gold. Comprehensive geologic studies of the Kings Canyon area by Centurion since 1992 have established that the Discovery Area was only one of the more favorable drill targets on the property.
The Company conducted a 22 hole, 17,800 foot drilling program on the property in fiscal 1996. In August 1996, Centurion's drill hole CKC- 96-10, tested an area several miles south of the Main Discovery and intercepted gold at a grade of 0.615 ounces per ton and silver at a grade of 2.3 ounces per ton in the 10 foot interval between 250 to 260 feet. Between 270 and 280 feet the gold grade was 0.112 ounces per ton. Between 420 and 450 feet the silver grade was 2.9 ounces per ton. The Company is currently drilling a core hole next to the site of CKC-96-10 using its Longyear Model 44 diamond core drill rig. The core from the hole should provide substantial geologic insight into this new gold discovery zone and will be used to direct further exploration drilling in the area.
Adjacent to Centurion's 100 percent controlled properties, the Company owns a 4 percent production royalty on all minerals produced from 82 claims (1,600 acres), and the Company owns a 1.5 percent production royalty on an additional 12 Utah Mineral Leases (5,500 acres) held by another company. Centurion's data base from exploration completed from 1988 to present includes assays from more than 200 drill holes totaling more than 100,000 feet, assays from 1,751 surface rock chip samples collected over a 60 square mile area, and geophysical survey data from VLF, CSAMT and ground magnetic surveys on specific targets.
Metallurgical tests conducted on drill cuttings from the Main Discovery deposit indicate that gold can be economically recovered by using standard cyanide heap leach techniques. Bottle roll tests were conducted on six composite samples representing nine drill holes. Gold recoveries averaged about 75 percent with 96 hours of leaching. Extraction rates were rapid, with recovery substantially complete in 6 to 24 hours. Cyanide consumption averaged 0.29 pounds per ton.
For the past several years concern about the nearby King Top wilderness study area (WSA) has delayed exploration of a portion of the Kings Canyon property. However, the Main Discovery deposit and Centurion's CKC-96-10 gold discovery zone are both outside the WSA, as are most of the promising exploration targets. Centurion's management believes that the WSA will not be approved for permanent inclusion within the wilderness system. The U.S. Bureau of Land Management, which manages federal wilderness and wilderness study areas, and the Utah state government have both concluded that the King Ton WSA is unsuitable for wilderness designation. All of Centurion's present exploration targets are outside the present King Top WSA.
The Company expects to have a joint venture partner to finance its Kings Canyon Project within fiscal 1997.
TINTIC PROJECT: - --------------- The Tintic mining district lies about 70 miles southwest of Salt Lake City. The value of past production of gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc from the district in today's dollars is close to $2 billion. Centurion's Tintic properties of 14,756 acres are strategic to the Company's business plan of establishing cash flow from production in order to finance mineral exploration and discovery. Centurion now owns or controls 40 historic previously producing mines with a combined past production history of more than 1.8 million ounces of gold, 165 million ounces of silver and 200 million pounds of copper.
Centurion has full ownership of six of the top historic producers in the district: the Mammoth, the Grand Central, the Centennial Eureka, the Gold Chain, the Victoria, and the Bullion Beck mines. This complex of mines, and others which Centurion controls, were neither mined nor explored deeper than the permanent water table. No other mines in the immediate vicinity conducted commercial mining operations greater than 1,500 feet below the permanent water table. Economic conditions during the 1920's and 1930's forced the closure of many of these mines. Furthermore, property boundary disputes often hindered development.
By consolidating ownership and control of these properties, Centurion has eliminated the land boundary problems. By consolidating these properties in the 1990's -- with today's metal prices and modern mining and de-watering methods -- Centurion has the incentive and the technology to carry out an intensive exploration and development program on its Tintic properties. Furthermore, the Company has proven and probable ore in the Mammoth Mine. The mining and sale of this ore potentially could finance the entire exploration and development program.
Mammoth mine records show that the shaft pillar, a mineralized zone proximal to the mine shaft from the 150 foot level to the 550 foot level, contains an estimated 42,000 tons of probable ore grading 0.18 ounces per ton gold, 23 ounces per ton silver, and 4.5 percent copper. The Company believes that these reserves are mineable from the surface using the existing shaft and underground workings. Mine records also show that the New Park Mining Company drilled into significant ore reserves in the 2400 to 2600 foot levels of the Mammoth during the 1970's and left these reserves in-place when they terminated operations. These proven and probable reserves total 116,000 tons grading 0.284 ounces per ton gold, 15.2 ounces per ton silver and 1.3 percent copper.
During fiscal 1996, the Company began engineering plans for con- structing a decline ramp which would intersect the Mammoth workings at about the 1600 foot level and again at about the 2600 level, as well as intersect other exploration targets in the area such as the Butterfly Stope in the Grand Central mine to the east. "Ramp mining" is a modern production technique that uses trackless equipment to remove ore for less than $16 per ton, a significantly lower cost than the approximate $40 per ton cost of traditional shaft and rail car method. The Company would initially use the ramp technique to mine the Mammoth New Park reserves and any other ore zones encountered. The ramp would also serve as an underground drilling platform throughout its length. Ultimately the ramp could be extended to access the exploration targets beneath the water table throughout all of Centurion's properties in the area.
In December 1996, Company geologists completed a comprehensive series of reports which outline and summarize several dozen surface and underground exploration targets on Centurion's Tintic properties. The reports culminate a work-in-progress which began in 1993. The targets have be developed from geochemical sampling, surface and underground geologic mapping, and previous drilling. The reports are now being submitted to potential joint venture partners.
During fiscal 1996, the Company drilled 2,820 feet in 6 holes around the surface of the Mammoth and Ajax mines. The Company also re- timbered the Mammoth shaft to the 300 foot level, refurbished the Mammoth shaft hoist, overhauled the Company's electrical mine equipment, and installed electrical and air supply to the Mammoth mine, all according to modern MSHA standards. In addition, the Company also drilled a water well, obtained water use permits, and established a water delivery and plumbing system for the entire Mammoth mine complex. The system includes three pumps, about 11,000 feet of pipeline, two 10,000 gallon storage tanks and a 100,000 gallon reservoir. Last, but not least, a septic system was installed.
Renovation of the shop buildings, offices and houses at the Mammoth complex, a project that was begun in 1995, neared completion in 1996. The Mammoth complex, which includes a professional quality assay lab, is a central exploration-support facility not just for the Tintic Project, but for all of the Company's other projects as well.
In 1996, the Company also drilled 5,100 feet in 15 holes around the Sunbeam mine area, a mile south of Mammoth, and 1,625 feet in two holes at the Dragon mine, about 2000 feet north of the Sunbeam. The Sunbeam holes explored a disseminated gold target known as the Trench 14 area. This is a gold mineralized zone that measures at least 800 by 1000 feet, and is open for extension on three sides and at depth. The two Dragon holes tested for additional zones of copper mineralization which were identified by a series of 1993 drill holes. Follow-up work is required in both areas.
The Company sent samples of Dragon halloysite clay to a leading manufacturer of fine china in September. Results of suitability tests for using Dragon clay in china manufacturing are pending. In July 1996, the Company acquired a Utah state mineral lease in western Utah which contains high quality halloysite. Samples of this halloysite were sent to the same manufacturer. Their tests indicate that this halloysite is high grade and suitable for fine china manufacturing. The manufacturer has expressed a desire for bulk quantities. Centurion plans to drill test the deposit in 1997 to determine available tonnage.
OTHER PROJECTS: - --------------- The Company's other projects include Blue Mountain, 13,029 acres, and Bradshaw-Cave Canyon, 2,521 acres. Both are located in the Milford/Beaver area. The Blue Mountain Project, located about 30 miles southwest of Milford, Utah is the more advanced of the two.
Disseminated copper mineralization is widespread across the Blue Mountain property with numerous small prospects that contain ore grade bearing rock. Centurion geologists have also discovered one large zone of gold mineralization at the surface measuring at least 8,000 feet long and 1,000 feet wide, with maximum surface values of 0.078 ounces per ton gold. Geological evidence indicates a porphyry copper environment and related gold deposits. The Company drilled 2,305 feet in five holes at Blue Mountain in fiscal 1996. The Blue Mountain property offers an excellent opportunity for the discovery and development of commercially mineable gold and copper ore reserves. Extensive further drilling is planned for 1997.
The Bradshaw-Cave Canyon property is located about 12 mile southeast of Milford, Utah in the Bradshaw mining district. The Bradshaw district was one of the first mining districts developed by Utah pioneers during the 1800's. Mineralization on the property consists of widespread gold, silver and copper disseminations and veins in limestone wallrocks. The property has never been drilled by modern exploratory methods. Centurion exploration to date consists of only of geochemical sampling and reconnaissance mapping. Nine of 14 surface samples gathered in the fall of 1995 contained gold grades greater than 0.100 ounces per ton. The highest grade was 0.983 ounces per ton gold. All of the samples contained greater than 0.19 percent copper. The highest copper grade was 4.82 percent. An exploration drill program to test the property is planned for fiscal 1997.
The project entitled "West Tintic - Centurion Project" in Table 2.1, of 10,903 acres, is not part of the Little Bingham - BHP joint venture, but represents private mineral rights and federal mining claims which Centurion holds for its own account. The Company did not conduct any exploration or development work on these properties during fiscal 1996, and none is planned for fiscal 1997. Finally, the project entitled "Other Misc." in Table 2.1, represents 3,330 collective acres of disparate mineral properties. The Company did not perform any exploration or development work during fiscal 1996, and none is planned during fiscal 1997.
ITEM 3.