ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company has an interest in a total of 87,853 acres. Of such acreage, the Company currently holds production royalties on 8,109 acres and the Company controls 79,744 acres through leases, options and mining claims in the State of Utah. All acreage totals are approximate.
During 1993, the mining law covering unpatented claims on federal land was modified to provide for a $100 per claim, per year, rental fee to replace the previous $100 per claim, per year, work requirement. These fees are in addition to the work done by the claim owners to evaluate and develop the unpatented mining claims. Due to these increased costs of retaining unpatented mining claims, the Company reduced the number of unpatented mining claims retained and shifted an increased portion of its exploration expenditures to the Company's controlled, privately owned lands and state mineral leases.
PROJECTS OVERVIEW
The property in which the Company has an interest is divided into the following areas:
A. TINTIC MINING DISTRICT PROPERTIES B. SOUTHWESTERN UTAH: KINGS CANYON & MILFORD AREA (including OK Mine) C. WEST TINTIC AREA PROPERTIES D. OTHER PROPERTIES (OQUIRRH MOUNTAINS) E. OFFICES
A. TINTIC MINING DISTRICT PROPERTIES
The Company has 100 percent control of 20,460 acres of mining properties in the Tintic Mining District. The district, which roughly surrounds the small town of Eureka, Utah, is about 70 miles southwest of Salt Lake City, in Juab and Utah counties, Utah. This district has historically produced nearly 3 million ounces of gold, 300 million ounces of silver, and 300 million pounds of copper. It has also produced important quantities of lead, and zinc. Properties controlled by Centurion have had a past production history of approximately 1.8 million ounces of gold, 90 million ounces of silver and 200 million pounds of copper.
Centurion is the largest single holder of mining properties in the Tintic Mining District. These mining properties are mainly in private or State of Utah ownership, which are minimally affected by recent proposed changes in U.S. laws relating to federal lode mining claims and mining on public lands.
Current targets on the Company's mining properties include brecciated ore column deposits of gold, silver, and copper at the Mammoth and the Ajax/Gold Chain mines, and along the southerly extension of the Gemini ore run. Exploration targets within the Main Tintic District South Project area are large-tonnage, disseminated (porphyry) copper-gold deposits of modern significance and high grade copper-silver-gold enargite vein systems.
Main Tintic District South Project. This project contains 9,675 acres. Privately owned lands or land held under Utah State mineral leases constitute 52 percent, with the remainder held by federal lode mining claims and Federal Prospecting Permits. The project is 100% controlled by Centurion.
The Main Tintic District South properties cover areas where prospectors in the late 1860's discovered narrow, but rich, gold and silver bearing fissure veins in volcanic and granitic rocks. These were the first ore discoveries in the Tintic District. Prospectors followed the trend of these veins northward and discovered the much larger bedding conformable mineralization and brecciated ore columns in the Main Tintic District North and East Tintic District areas which have produced more than 90 percent of the metal values recovered from the Tintic District to date. The fissure veins in the Main Tintic District South were mined for precious and base metals from the late 1860's through the early 1900's. There have been numerous previous old mining operations on the South Tintic properties. Few of these mines operated and mined ore below the depth of about 300 feet, which was the usual depth in those mines where water was encountered. The greater profitability of the much larger brecciated ore column deposits and bedding conformable mineralization in the northern portion of the district, where the groundwater table was typically encountered about 2,000 feet below the surface, lured turn-of-the- century mining companies away from the narrow fissure veins in the southern part of the district. In addition, the potential for large ore bodies beneath the fissure veins has not been adequately tested. These properties had never been explored using up-to-date geologic concepts and modern techniques prior to Centurion's activities.
Centurion's exploration efforts are directed toward the discovery of porphyry copper-gold deposits, associated copper-gold skarns, and zones of secondary copper enrichment. These copper-gold deposits are among the largest and richest mineral deposits known. Modern, relatively low-cost bulk-tonnage mining methods can make this type of mineralized deposit very profitable.
A large, low-grade (presently sub-economic) porphyry copper deposit, known as the South West Tintic ('SWT') deposit, lies in the southern part of the South Tintic area. Discovered in the 1940's, and partially drilled by Kennecott between 1962 and 1994, the SWT deposit has been partially defined by 42 drill holes totalling approximately 45,000 feet. It is believed that the SWT deposit is significant because it establishes that geologic conditions exist in the southern part of the Tintic Mining District for porphyry copper-gold mineralization. The SWT deposit presently contains an inferred geological resource of 600 million tons of porphyry copper sulfide ore which is open (untested) to the south and west. The grade of this deposit is 0.28% copper (using a 0.20% copper grade cutoff). The SWT deposit has been only partially drilled out in seven, widely spaced drill holes. The last hole drilled in the summer of 1994 intersected 1,854 feet grading, 0.23% copper and bottomed in 0.25% copper mineralization. The best interval in this zone averaged 0.29% copper over a thickness of 650 feet. Important quantities of molybdenum are present and an additional shallow copper oxide deposit lies adjacent to the sulfide ore body. Large areas of highly prospective ground have never been adequately explored. These areas have excellent potential for relatively shallow, economically viable, high grade copper and copper-gold-silver mineralization.
Target areas in the SWT deposit include the extensions of the SWT, Treasure Hill, and Trench 14 anomalies. A detailed analysis of the structural and geochemical controls which localized copper, gold, and silver rich mineralization in the SWT District has been undertaken. All existing rotary cuttings, drill core, geophysical anomalies, geochemical data, geologic mapping and structural analysis are presently being reevaluated. This work is being carried out using the insights gained through Centurion's detailed structural and geochemical study completed in the summer of 1994. This study delineated controls to historically mined, high grade, copper-gold- silver ore in the Main Tintic District. These controls are being applied to the Southern District to define preferred sites for copper- gold mineral deposition. This program represents the first time since the early 1970's that all SWT drill data are being evaluated in the context of recent advances in the understanding of porphyry copper deposits.
The southernmost deep drill hole, SWT-36, intersected 1,000 feet of 0.28% copper mineralization. No deep drilling has been conducted to the south and west of this drill hole along the southwestern extension of the regional zone of hydrothermal alteration. Drill intercepts of up to 60 feet of 0.80% copper and 50 feet of 1.88 oz/ton silver in the Treasure Hill target area may reflect the northern migration of fluids from the SWT porphyry copper. The bottom 20 feet of a Kennecott/Centurion Joint Venture drill hole at Treasure Hill averaged 1.92% copper, 1 ounce silver, and scattered gold. Air track drilling in the Trench 14 target to depths of less than 200 feet, shows persistently anomalous gold in three areas. The uppermost portions of a potential fracture controlled, gold-copper target may lie in an area of altered volcanic rocks with nearby high grade copper-gold production from fissure zones. Additional follow up work will be based on the results of an ongoing structural and geochemical analysis of the area. The last and best hole, STR-19, drilled prior to the withdrawal of Kennecott Exploration, was a reverse circulation hole completed in mid-July, 1994. Hole STR-19 is located in a previously unexplored portion of the Treasure Hill area, several miles north of the SWT porphyry copper deposit. This hole encountered zones of copper mineralization that results indicate may well prove significant. STR-19 intersected the following:
Depth Copper Grade
540 to 600 feet .80 percent Cu 620 to 680 feet .26 percent Cu 1000 to 1110 feet .22 percent Cu 1430 to 1450 feet 1.92 percent Cu
These intercepts also contained anomalous gold and silver values. The bottom of the hole was still in copper mineralization at 1,450 feet. Preliminary indications from STR-19 and other drill holes in the area, together with surface mapping and sampling, and historic production data from nearby mines, suggest the possible presence of a large, disseminated copper-gold-silver zone. The presence of the uncommon mineral enargite both in drill holes and in surface outcrop over an extensive area also suggests that the mineralized zone may contain enargite-precious metal deposits.
Management of the Company intends to continue exploring properties within the South Tintic and evaluating the possible development of such properties by prospective joint venture participants. Such development may include mining operations and, as appropriate, marketing all mineralization, minerals and mineral resources produced from such properties.
Main Tintic District North Project. The Company has 100 percent control of 6,971 acres. These mining properties are situated in what is historically known as the Main Tintic Mining District, surrounding the town of Eureka, Utah. Ninety percent of this acreage is held in private ownership and state mineral leases. The balance is held as unpatented lode mining claims.
During the 1994 and 1995 fiscal years, the Company reopened numerous old mine workings in order to carry out geologic mapping and sampling for assay. Numerous exploration drill holes were completed. Additional exploratory drilling is currently underway to test multiple geologic targets. The Company controls 32 formerly productive mines, of which 23 had significant production of over 50,000 tons of high- grade gold-copper-silver ore.
The Company-owned Centennial-Eureka mine led the Tintic district in gold and copper production with 656,000 ounces of gold and 80 million pounds of copper recovered. The Company re-opened the Centennial- Eureka mine in 1989 and began preliminary exploration and underground mine rehabilitation. Underground sampling and geologic mapping indicate that several unmined, mineralized brecciated ore columns are present in the southern portion of the mine. Data obtained from old mine maps and production records from the period of mine operation have been evaluated in detail to determine ore grades and metal zoning. These records are proving extremely valuable in the Company's efforts to identify additional ore reserves.
The Mammoth Mine is one of the Company's major project properties. This Mammoth ore column represents the apex of an ore chimney which descends 2,600 feet. Mined continuously from the surface to the bottom, this ore column alone accounted for $240 million of the $263 million dollars produced by the Mammoth Mine from 1870 to 1982.
Because past mining methods were not mechanized and were labor intensive, only the richest grades of ore could be produced. All major state and federal mining permits have been approved for near- term production, and rail contracts are under negotiation for shipment to local smelters.
During Fiscal 1995, Centurion evaluated several mineralized zones within the upper and lower levels of the Mammoth, Gold Chain, and Opohongo mines. The Mammoth Mine 2400 to 2600 foot level contains 116,000 tons of proven ore grading 0.284 opt (ounce per ton) gold, 15.2 opt silver, and 1.3% copper. The Mammoth Shaft Pillar, 150 to 550 foot level, consists of 42,000 tons of probable ore grading 0.181 opt gold, 23 opt silver, and 4.5% copper. The Mammoth 50 foot level also contains an additional 15,000 tons of probable ore grading 22.5% copper. The upper levels of the Mammoth are accessible for exploration and development through the Plummer Tunnel and six other easily accessible tunnels. Development work is underway in the Mammoth Mine for near-term production. In addition, Centurion is further encouraged by the fact that no modern exploration drilling was ever conducted in the upper portions of the Mammoth Mine.
Five hundred feet south of the Mammoth Mine, Centurion has identified additional ore in the Sioux-Ajax Tunnel, which contains 20,000 tons of probable reserves grading 0.06 opt gold, 10 opt silver, and 4.9% copper. At the Grand Central Mine dump, east of the Mammoth Mine, stockpiled proven ore includes 10,400 tons grading 0.167 opt gold, 7.2 opt silver, 0.9% copper. The discovery of additional productive mineral deposits is anticipated.
Main Tintic District East Project. Centurion controls 3,815 acres in the Tintic District East Project, with 94 percent of the Project situated on privately owned and state lease lands southeast and northeast of the town of Eureka, Utah. Historical mines in the Tintic East District Project area produced some of the highest overall gold and silver ore grades reported in the Tintic district. Centurion- controlled properties in this Project area have had substantial past production, with recovered metals totalling 149,500 ounces of gold, and 3,450,000 ounces of silver from Eureka Bullion, North Lily, and Tintic Bullion. The Company's primary exploration targets are high- grade gold-silver brecciated ore columns localized by fault intersections.
Centurion has compiled existing technical data and has begun a concentrated exploration effort for the 1995 field season. Six drill holes have been permitted on approximately four target areas. The upper portions of two holes have been completed to date. These holes penetrated the volcanic cover and the complex geology that mask the mineralized zones using cost-effective reverse-circulation drilling. A core drill rig will deepen these two holes.
Recent detailed surface and underground geological mapping, plus geophysical surveys, have identified several target locations where brecciated ore columns are believed to occur. The Company's geologists have carried out detailed investigations of these areas and developed specific drilling targets.
B. SOUTHWESTERN UTAH: KINGS CANYON & MILFORD AREA (including OK Mine)
Centurion's interests in Southwestern Utah are grouped within two project areas, the Milford and Kings Canyon Project areas. The Kings Canyon Project area represents a belt of precious metal mineralization discovered mostly after Fiscal 1990. Gold mineralization within the belt occurs over a 50 square mile area. In the fall of 1990, drilling in the northwest portion of the Kings Canyon Project encountered ore- grade gold mineralization at an open-pit mineable depth. At the present time, 60 holes drilled in this area, known as the Main Discovery Property, have delineated a gold resource containing at least 300,000 ounces of gold. The gold ore body is continuous and relatively uniform. Gold mineralization remains open at depth and for extension to the east, north, and west, where faulting has displaced the ore body.
Centurion holds an in kind production royalty of 4% on all gold and silver produced, and a 4% net smelter return on all other metals recovered from the Main Discovery ore body and additional ore bodies on adjacent properties controlled by other companies totalling 1,069 acres, and a lessor royalty on properties totalling 7,040 acres. The portion of the Main Discovery area controlled by Centurion may contain extensions of the Main Discovery ore body, as well as deep ore potential. Centurion is continuing with plans to drill-test these properties in early 1995.
Centurion s recently acquired Milford Area properties in the Star, Beaver Lake, and San Francisco Ranges are approximately 50 miles to the southeast of Kings Canyon. Centurion controls approximately 25,001 acres in the Star, Beaver Lake, San Francisco, Bradshaw, and Lincoln mining districts, all past producers of gold, copper, and silver. Centurion geologists recognized many similarities between copper-gold ore occurrences in these districts and several nearby porphyry copper- gold deposits such as Bingham Canyon and Tintic, Utah; and Ely and Yerington, Nevada. Based on these similarities and other evidence, Centurion initiated an ongoing land acquisition program in the area in August 1993.
Kings Canyon Project. The Kings Canyon Project consists of approximately 22,795 acres of unpatented lode mining claims and Utah State leases situated 70 miles west of Delta, Utah. Centurion s gold properties include areas in the newly-discovered Cat Canyon property, New Years, Main Discovery, and portions of the Boobs Canyon property.
The Main Discovery Property. The Main Discovery property consists of unpatented claims 100% controlled by Centurion situated in close proximity to U.S. Highway 6, approximately 70 miles west of Delta, Utah. Centurion also maintains a 4% production royalty on 35 unpatented lode mining claims covering the adjacent Main Discovery ore body, and a smaller royalty on several thousand acres of Utah State mineral leases.
Approximately 60 drill holes have been completed to date. Centurion intends to carry out additional drilling including testing several deep targets.
Milford Area Projects. The Milford Area Projects lie approximately 50 miles southeast of Centurion's Kings Canyon Project area, near the town of Milford, Utah. The Milford Area Projects presently consist of approximately 25,001 acres in several separate property blocks, including the South Utah Copper, Blue Mountain Properties, Cave Canyon, Star, and Wild Bill properties. An excellent infrastructure exists in the area, with roads, power, and near-surface water all present within the Project area. The Union Pacific Railroad passes 8 miles east of the OK Mine, located in the northern portion of the project area.
South Utah Copper Project. The South Utah Copper Project lies in the southern Beaver Lake Mountains and mining district of the same name, approximately 10 miles northwest of Milford, Utah. Mineral lands in the project total approximately 9,452 acres, of which approximately 46 percent are privately owned lands and State of Utah mineral leases. The project is 100 percent controlled by Centurion. Centurion anticipates significant near-term copper production from large-tonnage surface copper oxide deposits identified on the property. Proven and probable reserves based on drilling completed through August, 1995 are 6,900,000 tons grading 0.48% copper. This includes 2,000,000 tons of ore grading 0.40% copper which is already mined and stockpiled.
Blue Mountain Project. The Blue Mountain Project, situated east of the South Utah Copper area, consists of 9,587 acres of unpatented lode mining claims and Utah State leases. Gold and copper mineralization occurs over a 20 square mile area, most of which is unexplored. Two drill holes have encountered gold ore grade mineralization, including 5 feet of 0.65 opt gold at 220 feet. Surface samples near the drill sites contain up to 0.078 opt gold. Gold mineralization has been discovered at another zone which measures at least 6,000 feet with surface gold grades up to 0.045 opt gold and copper grades to 2%.
Cave Canyon Project. Centurion owns 260 acres of patented mining claims and controls an additional 2,184 acres of unpatented claims and Utah State leases in the Cave Canyon Project, situated southeast of Milford in the Lincoln and Bradshaw mining districts.
The area is relatively unexplored. Centurion s geochemical sampling has confirmed high grade gold mineralization in a 'Carlin Nevada Type' geologic occurrence. Preliminary results are very encouraging and additional exploration is currently underway.
Star Range and Wild Bill Project. Centurion's Star Range Project lies in the Star Mountain Range, in the North and South Star mining districts, approximately 4 miles west of Milford, Utah. Lands within the Project area consist of two main property blocks comprised of private mineral lands, unpatented lode mining claims, and State of Utah mineral leases, totaling approximately 5,500 acres. Centurion is currently evaluating existing data in preparation for detailed intensive geological, geochemical, and geophysical surveys on the Star and Wild Bill Properties. It is anticipated that drilling will be conducted when targets are further defined. Both properties are at relatively low elevation and, therefore, additional work has been scheduled for sometime during or shortly after the first quarter of 1996, a time when access is likely to be more difficult at the Company's other Milford area projects.
C. WEST TINTIC AREA PROPERTIES
Centurion s West Tintic Area properties include a 640 acre Utah State mineral lease covering the 'Little Bingham' copper porphyry resource, and 10,814 acres of mineral and exploration rights owned by Centurion s Mammoth Mining Company on private land.
D. OTHER PROPERTIES (OQUIRRHS)
Centurion owns 33 acres of patented mining claims in proximity to Kennecott s Bingham Mine. Centurion has transferred ownership of its other Oquirrh properties to its affiliated subsidiary, Consolidated Royal Silver Mines.
E. OFFICES
The Company's executive office is located at 331 South Rio Grande Street, Suite 201, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. In addition, the company maintains a technical office at 860 South 500 West, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101; a field office in Eureka, Utah; and a field office in Milford, Utah. The executive and technical offices are leased from third parties and are believed by management to be adequate for the Company's current needs.
ITEM 3.