ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Substantially all of Devon's properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in New Mexico, Wyoming, Texas, Oklahoma and Alberta, Canada. These interests entitle Devon to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Devon's interests are mostly in the form of working interests and volumetric production payments, and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, royalty, mineral and net profits interests and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue
"Proved reserves" are those quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs, which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Estimates of proved reserves are strictly technical judgments and are not knowingly influenced by attitudes of conservatism or optimism. The following table sets forth Devon's estimated proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues therefrom and the 10% Present Value thereof as of December 31, 1998. Approximately 93% of Devon's U.S. proved reserves were estimated by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers. Devon's internal staff of engineers estimated the remainder of the U.S. reserves. AMH Group Ltd. and Paddock Lindstrom & Associates Ltd. calculated all of the Canadian proved reserves. All reserve estimates were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines (as described in the notes below). These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the supplemental information on oil and gas operations in note 16 to Devon's consolidated financial statements included herein, except that federal income taxes attributable to such future net revenues have been disregarded in the presentation below.
No estimates of Devon's proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except (i) in filings with the SEC and (ii) in filings with the Department of Energy ("DOE"). Reserve estimates filed by Devon with the SEC correspond with the estimates of Devon reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of Devon's reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that Devon operates and to exclude all interests in wells that Devon does not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 1998. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of, among other things, additional development activity, production history and viability of production under varying economic conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur in the future.
Production, Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil and natural gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 1998, is set forth in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
Well Statistics
The following table sets forth Devon's producing wells as of December 31, 1998:
Devon also held numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. After converting to working interests, these overriding royalty interests will be included in Devon's gross and net well count.
Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth Devon's developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 1998.
Operation of Properties
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. The charges under operating agreements customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated.
Devon is the operator of 3,429 of its wells. These operated wells account for approximately 80% of Devon's total proved reserves. As operator, Devon receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area to or by unaffiliated third parties. In presenting its financial data, Devon records the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
Significant Properties
The following table sets forth proved reserve information on the most significant geographic areas in which Devon's properties are located as of December 31, 1998.
United States Properties
Permian Basin Properties. The Permian Basin is a prolific oil and gas-producing region located in western Texas and southeastern New Mexico. The area encompasses approximately 66,000 square miles and contains more than 500 major oil and gas fields. Oil and gas leases within the Permian Basin are difficult to obtain as much of the most prospective acreage is "held by production" from existing wells or tied to large producing units. Since 1987, Devon has made four significant acquisitions of properties in the Permian Basin. These acquisitions have enabled Devon to obtain prospective acreage in areas in which leasehold positions could not otherwise be established. This large and well- situated leasehold position continues to provide Devon with numerous exploration and development opportunities. Devon has also initiated enhanced oil recovery projects to further expand reserves. Devon's activity in the Permian Basin was limited in 1998 and will continue to be limited in 1999 due to low oil prices.
Grayburg-Jackson Field. Devon acquired the Grayburg-Jackson Field in 1994. The property consists of approximately 8,600 acres located in the southeastern New Mexico portion of the Permian Basin. The field produces from an 800-foot thick interval of the Grayburg and San Andres formations at depths between 3,000 and 4,000 feet. The Grayburg-Jackson Field contains approximately 14% of Devon's proved oil reserves and is the Company's largest oil property.
Production in this field was first established in the 1930's. However, most of the current producing wells were drilled since 1970. When Devon acquired this property in 1994, drilling by previous owners had developed the property on an average spacing of over 40 acres per well. Additional oil reserves were recovered from similar properties in the immediate vicinity by infill drilling to 20 acres per well spacing and subsequent waterflooding. Based upon analogy to these properties, Devon initiated a $75 million capital development project in 1994 that included drilling approximately 184 infill wells, converting selected producing wells to water injection wells and optimizing the existing waterflood. Devon substantially completed the infill drilling phase of the project in 1996. The majority of the field was in the initial phases of water injection by mid-1997. Completion of the waterflood facilities over the remainder of the field will require the additional conversion of about 39 producing wells to injection wells.
At year-end 1998, gross production averaged approximately 2,600 Boe per day. Devon anticipates that continued water injection will further improve oil and gas recoveries.
Ozona Field. The Ozona Field encompasses more than 200,000 acres in Crockett County, Texas, situated 120 miles southeast of Midland, Texas. The field produces gas primarily from the Canyon and Strawn formations at depths ranging from approximately 6,000 to 10,000 feet. The field has been developed on 80-acre spacing, with portions now being infill drilled to 40-acre spacing.
San Juan Basin. Devon's single largest natural gas reserve position relates to its interests in two federal units in the northwest New Mexico portion of the San Juan Basin: the 33,000 acre Northeast Blanco Unit ("NEBU"), in Rio Arriba and San Juan Counties, and the 22,400 acre 32-9 Unit in San Juan County. The San Juan Basin is a densely drilled area covering 3,700 square miles in central and northwestern New Mexico. It has been historically considered the second largest gas producing basin in the United States. Prior to 1990, the Basin's gas production primarily came from conventional sandstone formations at a depth of about 5,500 feet. However, in the early 1980's, development of the shallower Fruitland coal formation began. Coal seam gas production has increased total production so significantly that the San Juan Basin could be considered the largest gas producing basin in the U.S. Production from the coal seams constitutes almost all of Devon's reserves in these two units.
Substantially all of Devon's interests in both of these units are a part of a transaction into which the Company entered effective January 1, 1995. See " - San Juan Basin Transaction" below.
Northeast Blanco Unit. Approximately 96%, or 135 Bcf, of Devon's proved reserves attributable to NEBU are associated with the Fruitland Coal formation. The potential for gas production from coal seams varies depending upon the thickness of the coal formation, the type of coal in place, the depth at which it is found and other factors. NEBU is located in the central part of the San Juan Basin where each of the factors is at or near its optimum. NEBU is operated by Devon. The Company initially began developing its coal seam interest during 1988, eventually drilling 102 wells -- the maximum permitted under existing 320-acre spacing on NEBU's 33,000 acres.
In the near term, Devon is implementing various projects that have already increased and may continue to increase production and recoverable reserves. The first of these projects, called "line looping," involves laying additional gathering lines to decrease operating pressures. This project was begun in 1996 and was substantially completed in October 1997. Another project involves the installation of additional compressors at various points in the gathering system and at central delivery points associated with NEBU. This project was begun in 1997 and will continue in 1999. Additional projects to improve production through work on individual wells are currently underway. Longer term, Devon believes that additional wells may be drilled which could improve production.
Initial results from the line looping and compression projects that have been completed through March 1999, appear favorable. Total daily production from NEBU has increased from an average of 187 MMcf of gas per day in June 1996 to an average of 243 MMcf of gas per day in March 1999. Devon anticipates that the installation of additional compression and individual well workovers could increase production from NEBU another 10 MMcf to 15 MMcf of gas per day.
As part of the San Juan Basin Transaction (discussed in more detail below), a third party will pay 100% of Devon's share of the capital necessary to increase production from the existing NEBU wells. Devon is entitled to retain 75% of any reserves in excess of those estimated to be in place at the time of the transaction which are developed as a result of such capital expenditures. See " - San Juan Basin Transaction" below.
32-9 Unit. The 32-9 Unit is located approximately eight miles northwest of NEBU. Geologically and operationally this property is very similar to NEBU; the coal seams at the 32-9 Unit are about the same thickness as at NEBU, the type of coal and the depth at which it is found are similar and the gas content of the coal is estimated to be approximately the same. However, the 32-9 Unit is located in an area where the coal does not appear to be as permeable as it is at NEBU. Thus, the 32-9 Unit wells tend to produce at lower rates but should produce for a longer period of time than the NEBU wells. Longer term, Devon believes that additional wells may be drilled which could improve production. This unit is also being evaluated for possible mechanical improvements similar to those being implemented at NEBU.
San Juan Basin Transaction. Effective January 1, 1995, Devon and an unrelated company entered into a transaction covering substantially all of Devon's San Juan Basin coal seam properties. The effect of the transaction is that the price Devon receives for its coal seam gas production ranges between $0.40 and $0.60 per Mcf (subject to adjustment for inflation) higher than the price the Company would otherwise receive during the period from 1995 through the year 2002. For a detailed discussion of this transaction, see note 3 to Devon's consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.
Rocky Mountain Properties. The Rocky Mountain region includes oil and gas producing basins that are grouped together because of their geographic location rather than their geological characteristics. The area generally encompasses all or portions of the states of Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota, Utah and Wyoming. Devon's properties are primarily located in the Big Horn and Powder River Basins in Wyoming.
House Creek Area. The House Creek area is located in Campbell County, Wyoming within the prolific Powder River Basin. Devon acquired its original interest in the area at year-end 1996. In 1997, the Company purchased additional interests. The area, which produces oil from the Sussex Sandstone reservoir at depths of 8,200 feet, covers an area thirty miles long and two miles wide. The Area is divided into two production units. Devon operates the southern two-thirds of the area, designated as the House Creek Sussex Unit, with a 46% working interest. An infill drilling program was initiated late in 1997 which resulted in the addition of 75 producing and injector wells. These new locations have effectively reduced well spacing from 160 to 80 acres per well in most of the area. A third party operates the northern one-third of the area, designated as the House Creek North Sussex Unit. Devon has a 26% working interest in the North Unit. Additional infill drilling is also underway in the North Unit. Both portions of the area are currently under waterflood. Total daily gross production from House Creek has increased from an average of 4,600 Boe per day at year-end 1997 to an average of 5,700 Boe per day in January 1999.
Powder River Coalbed Methane Project. Devon has had a small interest in the Powder River Basin in Campbell County, Wyoming since the early 1980's. The Company added to its position in 1992 with the acquisition of a small group of producing properties and undeveloped leasehold. An acquisition in 1996 added significantly to reserves and undeveloped lease inventory. Virtually all of the production and reserves from these acquisitions was oil. However, a significant portion of the acreage included relatively shallow (approximately 600 to 1,000 feet deep) coal seams containing methane. This gas had not been developed due to relatively small gas reserves per well, the lack of low-pressure gas pipelines to collect the gas and insufficient pipeline capacity out of the region to deliver the gas to market.
However, since the mid-1990's industry participants have attained commercial production from coal wells by using inexpensive drilling techniques. Based on this information, Devon began to formulate a plan to develop the coal seam gas potential. The plan included significantly increasing the Company's acreage position, drilling a large number of coalbed methane wells to attain "critical mass" and constructing a gas gathering system and related carbon dioxide removal facilities to deliver the gas to any of several interstate pipelines.
During 1998 Devon began to implement this plan by acquiring significant interests in both producing coalbed methane wells and undeveloped acreage. In addition, Devon drilled 86 new coalbed methane wells. By year-end 1998, the Company had an interest in 216,000 net acres and 202 coalbed methane wells. In addition, Devon has, together with a joint-venture partner, begun construction of a 126-mile gas gathering system. The gas gathering system is expected to begin initial operations by the fourth quarter of 1999. When it is fully developed, in 2001, this system will have an estimated capacity of 450 MMcf of gas per day and access to multiple interstate pipelines. It will provide adequate capacity to transport not only Devon's natural gas production, but also third party gas.
Devon's total capital investment to the project is expected to be approximately $50 million for drilling 750 net wells over the next ten years and $50 to $150 million over the next three years for the development of the gathering system and facilities.
Canadian Properties
All of Devon's Canadian properties are located within the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin. The Western Canada Sedimentary Basin is a large geologic feature encompassing portions of British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. This basin feature forms a wedge-shaped depression that tapers from a maximum thickness of 17,000 feet on the western and southern margins to a zero edge along the northeast.
Northern Alberta Properties. This area covers northern Alberta and a portion of northeastern British Columbia. The Northern Alberta properties are primarily gas producing properties, although both gas and oil is present in multiple formations at varying depths. A large portion of this region is thick bog that can be accessed by heavy equipment only when the ground is frozen ("winter-only access"). Therefore drilling and workover activity must be carefully planned to occur within the winter months, typically from mid-December through mid-March.
Smoky Bear Area. Devon acquired an approximate 70% interest in 196 producing wells and nearly 1.1 million net undeveloped acres in this area of north-central Alberta through the Northstar Combination. The Smoky Bear Area consists of 16 separate fields that produce gas from various shallow formations ranging from 1,000 to 2,500 feet. In addition, the Company owns an interest in several gas processing facilities. This was an active area for drilling in 1998, during which Northstar drilled 101 gas wells, including 72 completed wells. After the Northstar Combination, the Company completed an acquisition in late 1998 which added new gas reserves and more than 400 additional gas wells. Devon expects to drill an additional 80 to 90 gas wells during 1999. Due to Devon's large acreage position in this area, Smoky Bear is expected to be the source for development and low-risk exploratory drilling for several years.
Southern Alberta Properties. This area covers central and southern Alberta and a small portion of Saskatchewan. The Company's position consists of an average 40% interest in 112 producing properties and 500,000 net undeveloped acres. Existing production is primarily from oil-producing formations ranging from 2,300 to 13,200 feet. Activity in this area was limited in 1998 and will continue to be limited in 1999 due to low oil prices. However, the undeveloped acreage offers the Company a variety of oil and gas exploration and development opportunities to pursue in the future. This area is accessible year round.
Foothills Properties. This area spans the western edge of the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin from southeast British Columbia/southwest Alberta to northeast British Columbia along the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains. It contains Devon's largest Canadian producing property as well as a large undeveloped acreage position. Exploration in the Foothills is typically oriented toward long-life natural gas reserves. Although the risks and capital expenditures for this type of exploration projects are high, the potential prospect sizes ranges from 100 to 1,000 Bcf.
Coleman Field. The Coleman Field, located in the southern portion of the Foothills, is Devon's largest Canadian property, producing gas from multiple formations between 9,500 and 11,500 feet. Northstar originally acquired an interest in the Coleman sour gas processing plant and pipeline in 1993. Through a merger in 1997 this ownership increased to 100%. Northstar then built a reserve base consisting of 6 producing wells through acquisitions and exploratory and development drilling. During 1998 Northstar drilled three exploratory wells in the Coleman Field, two of which were productive. During 1999 the Company will drill one additional exploratory well and connect the two 1998 discoveries to pipeline.
Title to Properties
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. Devon believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review of local records). Investigations, generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
ITEM 3.