ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Substantially all of Devon's properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases located in New Mexico, Wyoming, Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana. These interests entitle Devon to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from a specific area. Devon's interests are mostly in the form of working interests and production payments, and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, royalty, mineral and net profits interests and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue
"Proved Reserves" are those quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Estimates of proved reserves are strictly technical judgments, and are not knowingly influenced by attitudes of conservatism or optimism. The following table sets forth Devon's estimated proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues therefrom and the present value thereof, discounted at 10% per annum ("10% Present
Value"), as of December 31, 1995. Approximately 92% of Devon's proved reserves were estimated by LaRoche & Associates, independent petroleum engineers ("LaRoche"). The remainder of such reserves were estimated by Devon's internal staff of engineers. In preparing their estimates, both LaRoche and Devon's staff used standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines (as described in the notes below). These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the supplemental information on oil and gas operations in note 13 to Devon's consolidated financial statements included herein, except that federal income taxes otherwise attributable to such future net revenues have been disregarded in the presentation below.
No estimates of Devon's proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except (i) in filings with the SEC and (ii) in filings with the Department of Energy ("DOE"). Reserve estimates filed by Devon with the SEC correspond with the estimates of Devon reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying assumptions as the estimates of Devon's reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells which Devon operates and to exclude all interests in wells which Devon does not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 1995. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of, among other things, additional development activity, production history and viability of production under varying economic conditions; consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur in the future.
The following table presents the net quantities of Devon's oil, natural gas and NGL reserves as of the end of the years indicated. Devon's total proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 1988 through 1991 were estimated by LaRoche. Approximately 88%, 95%, 91% and 92% of Devon's reserves as of the years ended December 31, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively, were estimated by LaRoche. The balance of the reserves were estimated by Devon's internal staff of engineers.
Production, Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil and natural gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the five years ended December 31, 1995, is set forth in "Item 6. Selected Financial Data."
Well Statistics
As of December 31, 1995, Devon had interests in 4,024 producing wells, of which 2,903 gross (793 net) were oil wells and 1,121 gross (430 net) were natural gas wells. Devon also held numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. After converting to working interests, these overriding royalty interests will be included in Devon's gross and net well count.
Leasehold
The following table sets forth Devon's developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease acreage as of December 31, 1995.
Significant Properties
The following table sets forth information on the most significant geographic areas in which Devon's properties are located as of December 31, 1995.
San Juan Basin. Devon's single largest reserve position relates to its interests in two federal units in the northwest New Mexico portion of the San Juan Basin: the 33,000 acre NEBU, in Rio Arriba and San Juan Counties, and the 22,400 acre 32-9 Unit in San Juan County. The San Juan Basin, a densely drilled area covering 3,700 square miles in central and northwestern New Mexico, has historically been considered the second largest gas producing basin in the United States. Prior to 1990, the Basin's gas production primarily came from conventional sandstone formations at a depth of about 5,500 feet. However, in the early 1980's, development of the shallower Fruitland Coal formation began. Coal seam gas production has increased total production so significantly that the San Juan Basin can now arguably be considered the largest gas producing basin in the U.S. Production from the coal seams constitutes almost all of Devon's reserves in these two units.
Substantially all of Devon's interests in both of these units are a part of a transaction into which the Company entered effective January 1, 1995. See " - San Juan Basin Transaction" below.
Northeast Blanco Unit. Approximately 96%, or 114.6 Bcf, of Devon's proved reserves attributable to NEBU are associated with the Fruitland coal seam formation. The potential for coal seam gas production varies depending upon the thickness of the coal formation, the type of coal in place, the depth at which it is found and other factors. NEBU is located in the central part of the San Juan Basin where each of the factors is at or near its optimum. NEBU is operated through a Devon affiliate, Blackwood & Nichols Co. A Limited Partnership. The Company initially began developing its coal seam interest during 1988, eventually drilling 102 wells, the maximum permitted under existing 320-acre spacing on NEBU's 33,000 acres.
By late 1990, the first NEBU coal seam wells were connected to pipelines and began producing. Additional wells were connected each year until project completion in late 1993. Production increased each year through 1994. The following table shows Devon's net production from NEBU:
Year Gas Production ---- -------------- 1990 1.0 Bcf 1991 8.7 Bcf 1992 17.5 Bcf 1993 18.2 Bcf 1994 18.7 Bcf 1995 16.2 Bcf -------- Total 80.3 Bcf
As the table above illustrates, NEBU production declined slightly, as expected, in 1995. About 1.2 Bcf of the reduction is due to the San Juan Basin Transaction described below. The remainder of the reduced production is due to natural decline. *It is likely that production will decrease to 13 to 15 Bcf in 1996 and continue a modest decline thereafter unless additional development or new technology is applied to the property.*
The current reserve estimates at NEBU assume that 55% to 65% of the coal seam gas in place can be economically recovered through the existing wells. *Additional production and recoverable reserves might be realized by continued reduction in operating pressure through compression and pipeline optimization, by use of subsurface pumping equipment to remove water, by drilling additional wells, or by using enhanced recovery techniques, such as injecting carbon dioxide or nitrogen into the coal formation, to force additional gas to the producing well bores.* Devon and other owners in the San Juan Basin are studying and experimenting with these various options to determine if additional recoveries are economically feasible. *If such development projects were to be undertaken by Devon, it would likely result in significant additional capital expenditures and gas reserves.* (As part of the San Juan Basin Transaction, Devon will be entitled to 75% of any reserves in excess of those estimated to be in place at the time of the transaction. The third party will pay 100% of the capital necessary to develop any such incremental reserves for its 25% interest in such reserves. See " - San Juan Basin Transaction" below.)
32-9 Unit. The 32-9 Unit, operated by Meridian Oil Production, Inc., is located approximately eight miles northwest of NEBU. Geologically and operationally this property is very similar to NEBU: the coal seams at the 32-9 Unit are about the same thickness as at NEBU, the type of coal and the depth at which it is found are similar, the gas content of the coal is estimated to be approximately the same. However, the 32-9 Unit is located in an area where the coal does not appear to be as permeable as it is at NEBU. The current reserve estimates assume that 20% to 30% of the coal seam gas in place can be economically recovered through the existing wells. *Thus, the 32-9 Unit wells tend to produce at lower rates but should produce for a longer period of time than the NEBU wells. There is the possibility that some infill wells may be drilled to accelerate production, if the State of New Mexico allows drilling on 160-acre spacing rather than the existing 320-acre spacing.* This unit is also being evaluated for possible improved recovery projects similar to those being studied at NEBU.
Although now largely complete, development of the 32-9 Unit began later and has proceeded more slowly than the development of NEBU. Production from the 32-9 Unit did not commence until March of 1992. Consequently, Devon believes the 32-9 Unit has not yet reached its peak production rate.
Devon also owns an interest in five wells on leases located immediately adjacent to the 32-9 Unit. These wells will not be committed to the 32-9 Unit. Unless otherwise indicated, all references herein to the 32-9 Unit include both the 33 wells expected to be included in the Unit and the five wells outside the Unit. Devon does not own any interest or reserves in the deeper, conventional sandstone reservoirs at the 32-9 Unit.
San Juan Basin Gas Price. The sales price for Devon's San Juan Basin coal seam gas production is a combination of the net wellhead price, plus additional revenue attributable to the San Juan Basin Transaction. The average net wellhead price for San Juan Basin coal seam production sold during 1995 (before the benefit of the San Juan Basin Transaction) was $0.71 per Mcf. This net realization is relatively low compared to conventional gas produced in other areas of the U.S. This occurred for two reasons:
First, during most of 1995, demand for natural gas in California (the primary market for San Juan Basin gas) was weak, causing San Juan Basin gas to sell at a larger discount than gas that could be delivered to higher demand areas of the U.S. *Devon believes that this supply/demand imbalance will persist throughout 1996, but should dissipate in future years.*
Second, the price for coal seam gas production was less than that for Devon's conventional gas in the San Juan Basin because (i) a relatively large portion (about 10%) of the produced gas is carbon dioxide which is removed, (ii) a fee must be paid to remove carbon dioxide and transport the gas from the field to transmission lines that carry the gas to market and (iii) a portion of the produced gas is used to fuel compressors and other field equipment. This is a permanent circumstance that will always affect the price of coal seam gas production from the San Juan Basin.
Offsetting the deductions from the wellhead price is an additional $0.61 per Mcf from the San Juan Basin Transaction. This increase, added to the net wellhead price of $0.71 per Mcf, resulted in a San Juan Basin coalseam gas price of $1.32 per Mcf in 1995. See " - San Juan Basin Transaction" below.
San Juan Basin Transaction. Effective January 1, 1995, Devon and an unrelated company entered into a transaction covering substantially all of Devon's San Juan Basin coal seam properties. *The effect of the transaction is that the price Devon receives for its coal seam gas production will be $0.61 per Mcf higher than the price the Company would otherwise receive from 1995 through the year 2002.*
The transaction is based on the fact that Devon's coal seam gas production qualifies as a "nonconventional fuel source" under Internal Revenue Service regulations. Consequently, gas produced from these properties through the year 2002 is eligible for the Section 29 Credit, which was equal to $1.01 per million Btu ("MMBtu") as of December 31,
1995. The transaction consists of four major elements. First, Devon conveyed about 179 Bcf, or 90%, of its year-end 1994 coal seam gas reserves to the unrelated party. However, for financial reporting purposes Devon retained all of these reserves and their future production and cash flow through a volumetric production payment and repurchase option. Second, Devon conveyed outright to the unrelated party 7.2 Bcf of reserves for a sales price of $5.2 million. The reserves and future cash flow associated with this conveyance were not retained by Devon. (However, Devon has an option to reacquire these reserves at their fair market value at the time the option is exercised.) Third, the unrelated party pays Devon an amount equal to 75% of the value of the Section 29 tax credits generated by the properties. Fourth, Devon retained a 75% reversionary interest in any reserves in excess of the 186.2 Bcf estimated to exist as of the date of the transaction. The transaction is described in more detail in note 3 to Devon's consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.
Permian Basin Properties. The Permian Basin covers approximately 66,000 square miles of western Texas and southeastern New Mexico. The area has more than 500 major fields which are grouped under the general designation of Permian Basin. Permian Basin acreage is largely "held by production" from existing wells, meaning that new leasehold positions are not readily attainable. Since 1987, Devon has made four separate acquisitions of properties in the Permian Basin. These acquisitions, especially the July, 1992 acquisition of certain Permian Basin properties, enabled Devon to obtain prospective acreage in areas in which leasehold positions could not otherwise be purchased. *The multi-objective nature (several potential producing zones) of the Permian Basin and Devon's large leasehold position there will continue to provide Devon with exploration and development opportunities. Enhanced oil recovery projects are also possible which could further expand Devon's reserves.*
Grayburg-Jackson Field. This field, which was acquired in the Alta Merger in May, 1994, is located in Eddy County, in the far southeastern New Mexico portion of the Permian Basin. It is the Company's single largest property in the Permian Basin, accounting for 23% of total oil and gas reserves. Its location within 35 miles of 26 other Devon properties makes it an ideal strategic fit for the Company's Permian Basin holdings.
Production from this field currently comes from the Grayburg-San Andres-Premier zones over a 400-foot interval to depths up to 4,000 feet. Although some of the oldest wells in the Field date back to the 1940's and 1950's, most of the currently producing wells were drilled in the early 1970's. Additional drilling over the years by previous owners left the field developed to an average of 40-acre spacing per well when Devon acquired it. However, similar properties in the immediate vicinity have been drilled on 20-acre spacing and successfully waterflooded. Based upon this information, in 1994 Devon initiated a $60 million capital development project
which includes drilling about 150 wells over a two- to three- year period, converting producing wells to water injection wells and instituting a waterflood. As of year-end 1995, the project was about 50% completed.
From May through year-end 1994, the first seven months Devon owned the field, production from the Grayburg-Jackson Field was 234 MBoe. This was approximately 3% of Devon's total 1994 production. For 1995, production increased to 920 MBoe as additional drilling was completed and Devon owned the field for the full year. *For 1996 production is expected to again increase as development continues.* Currently about 50% of the Grayburg-Jackson Field reserves are classified as "proved developed." The remaining reserves are considered "proved undeveloped."
Worland Property. In December, 1995 Devon completed the acquisition of properties from a major oil company for approximately $50.3 million. All of the properties are located on a 25,000-acre federal unit in Big Horn and Washakie Counties, Wyoming. Of the $50.3 million purchase price, $46.3 million was allocated to 38 producing wells, 16 proved undeveloped locations and a natural gas processing plant. These acquired assets, combined with the small interest Devon previously owned, had total estimated proved reserves of 16.0 MMBoe as of year-end 1995. The remaining $4 million purchase price was allocated to undeveloped leasehold on the unit, which constitutes about 60%, or 15,500 acres, of the total acreage acquired.
*In 1996 Devon expects to invest an additional $9 million to begin the exploitation of this property. Projects scheduled for 1996 include drilling development wells, optimization of the existing gas processing plant and gathering system, additional stimulation of existing wells and drilling wells to extend the productive limits of this property.*
In early 1996 Devon increased its working interest in the proved property to 98% through several smaller acquisitions totaling $7 million. These acquisitions also increased the Company's interest in the gas processing plant and undeveloped leases to 100%.
The property consists of three separate fields located along a major geologic structure. It is the single largest gas producing feature in the Bighorn Basin. Seven separate horizons produce on the structure: the First, Second, Third and Fourth Frontier sandstones, the Muddy sandstone, the Phosphoria dolomite and the Tensleep sandstone, ranging in depths from 7,450 to 10,500 feet. The first production from this property was from the Phosphoria oil reservoir in the 1940s. Shallow gas production was established in the 1960s. The Tensleep, immediately below the Phosphoria zone, was developed in the 1970s. The original owner dedicated all gas production from the property, which they believed to be only a minor by-product of the oil production, under a long-term contract for $0.30 or less per Mcf. Because of this contract,
full development of the gas reservoirs was not economically feasible until the price was renegotiated by the original owner in 1988.
Devon believes the major potential of this property is from the application of modern technology. Three-D seismic and new well completion techniques such as massive acid- fracturing, are proving successful in other parts of the Bighorn Basin and throughout the Rocky Mountain region, and may enhance reserves and recoveries at the Worland Property as well. In addition, both the Tensleep and Phosphoria are possible candidate zones for horizontal drilling technology.
Operation of Properties
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties is the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. The charges under operating agreements customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated.
Devon is the operator of 1,372 of its 4,024 wells. As operator, Devon receives reimbursement of direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area to or by unaffiliated third parties. In presenting its financial data, Devon records the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense.
Title to Properties
Title to properties is subject to (i) royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other similar interests, (ii) contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, (iii) liens for current taxes not yet due and (iv) other encumbrances. Devon believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review of local records). Investigations, generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of production properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
ITEM 3.