ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
SOUTH TEXAS PRODUCING PROPERTIES
The Company currently has two producing properties which are located in South Texas, Rosita and Kingsville Dome. The following is a description of those properties.
KINGSVILLE DOME
The Property. The Kingsville Dome property consists of mineral leases from private landowners (and a small portion owned in fee) on 3,720 gross (3,573 net) acres located in central Kleberg County, Texas. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales. The leases have expiration dates ranging from February 1998 to 2004. With a few minor exceptions, all the leases contain shut-in royalty clauses which permit the Company to extend the leases not held by production by payment of a royalty. The Company was obligated to pay a production payment royalty of $1.00 per pound on the first three million pounds of uranium produced and sold from either Kingsville Dome or Rosita. The Company has produced in excess of three million pounds of uranium from these properties and made the final payment of approximately $730,000 on this obligation in January 1997.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1996, the property contained approximately 3.7 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.4 million pounds recoverable).
Production History. Initial production commenced in May 1988. In May 1989, due to the continuing decline in the spot price of uranium, the Company deferred development of the next wellfield, and the plant was shut-in in September 1990. Total production from May 1988 through September 1990 was approximately 1.5 million pounds.
Wellfield development activities resumed in December 1995, and production commenced in March 1996. Annualized production levels at Kingsville Dome are approximately 1 million pounds; and production was approximately 860,000 pounds from recommencement of production in March 1996 through December 31, 1996.
Further Development Potential. As part of the Company's ongoing production activities, it is engaged in significant development and exploration efforts at Kingsville Dome. Exploration is planned northwest of the current production area in 1997. The Company anticipates spending approximately $10.1 million in 1997 and $3.4 million in 1998 for plant capital, permitting, development and land holding costs.
Permitting Status. Radioactive material licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments to the license and permit for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended. The UIC disposal permit will require renewal in mid-1998, and the Company is in the process of applying for that renewal.
Restoration and Reclamation. Restoration of groundwater is planned to commence in early 1997. The Company anticipates spending approximately $750,000 in 1997 and $600,000 in 1998 on such restoration activities.
ROSITA
The Property. The Rosita property consists of mineral leases on 3,377 gross and net acres located in northeastern Duval County, Texas. All the leases, except minor leases, are held by production. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales. The Company was obligated to pay a production
payment royalty of $1.00 per pound on the first three million pounds of uranium produced and sold from either Kingsville Dome or Rosita. The balance due of approximately $730,000 under this obligation was paid in January 1997. See the above discussion of Kingsville Dome.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1996, the property contained approximately 1.8 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 1.1 million pounds recoverable).
Production History. The Company began initial production at Rosita in October 1990. Total production from Rosita for the eighteen months through March 31, 1992 was approximately 1.1 million pounds. In March 1992, due to depressed uranium prices, the Company shut-in production.
Wellfield development activities resumed at Rosita in March 1995, and production recommenced in June 1995. From that date through year-end 1995 approximately 610,000 pounds were produced and production in 1996 totaled 500,000 pounds.
Further Development Potential. The Company estimates that there are approximately 300,000 pounds of uranium remaining to be produced from existing operating wellfields at Rosita. In addition, the Company believes that an additional 840,000 pounds of uranium may be recovered from future wellfields at Rosita. Preproduction activities for the new wellfields began in January 1997, with expected production beginning in the first quarter of 1997. The Company expects its existing reserves at Rosita to be fully depleted by mid-1998. The Company anticipates spending approximately $2.1 million for development activities, permitting and land holding costs in 1997 and $238,000 in 1998.
Permitting Status. Radioactive materials licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended. The UIC disposal permit will require renewal in mid-1997, and the Company has filed its application for such renewal.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Company expects to commence initial groundwater restoration in January 1997 and expects to expend approximately $300,000 in 1997 and $345,000 in 1998 on such activities.
SOUTH TEXAS DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
VASQUEZ
The Property. The property consists of two mineral leases on 842 gross and net acres located in southwestern Duval County, Texas. One lease expires in January 1998, subject to extension for permitting delays, and the other lease expires in February 2000. The leases provide for royalties based on uranium sales. A potential conflict with respect to the mineral rights has arisen on the Vasquez property. The Company's lease is with the owner of both the surface of the land and 50% of the minerals. The Company believes the minable reserves on this property are within 200 feet of the surface and are, therefore, under Texas law owned by the surface estate. As a result of the surface lease alone, the Company believes it has the right to mine 100% of the minerals under Texas law. Another party, however, owns 50% of the mineral estate and may challenge the Company's ownership of 50% of the minerals. The Company expects to file a quiet title action to resolve this matter.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1996, the property contained approximately 3.7 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.4 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. Production is targeted to commence in 1998. The Company anticipates spending approximately $1.1 million in 1997 and $5.3 million in 1998 for plant construction, permitting,
development and land holding costs. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with these activities of approximately $3.0 million which it expects to meet by posting a bond collaterized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Permitting Status. All of the required permit applications have been completed and submitted to the TNRCC. The TNRCC is currently reviewing the applications. The Company expects the permits to be in place in 1997.
ALTA MESA
The Property. The Alta Mesa property consists of 4,575 gross and net acres located in Brooks County, Texas. The Company has a single mineral lease from the private mineral owner. The lease provides for a royalty based upon uranium sales and requires payment of minimum royalties if production does not begin by certain specified times. The Company paid $4 million for the lease of which $1 million is recoverable against one-half of future royalties. The lease term ends in December 1999 unless production from the property commences by that date (subject to extension for permitting delays).
Reserves. As of December 31, 1996, the property contained approximately 6.2 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 4.0 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. Construction of the plant and wellfields is projected to take eight months and is scheduled to begin as the various licenses are issued by the TNRCC. Construction of the plant and wellfields is anticipated to begin in the third or fourth quarter of 1997 depending on the progress in licensing with the TNRCC. The Company anticipates spending approximately $6.0 million in 1997 and $4.8 million in 1998 for plant construction, permitting, development and land holding costs. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with these activities of approximately $3.0 million which it expects to meet by posting a bond collaterized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Permitting Status. The Company filed license applications in the fourth quarter of 1996 and anticipates having the final permits in place in 1998.
NEW MEXICO DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company has various interests in properties located in the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts in New Mexico. As to these properties, the Company holds both patented and unpatented mining claims, mineral leases and some surface leases from private parties, the Navajo Nation and Navajo allottees. In addition, the Company signed a letter of intent in November 1996 to acquire from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium on significant acreage in New Mexico, a small portion of which falls within the Churchrock district. This agreement with Santa Fe was finalized in March 1997.
In keeping with its overall corporate strategy, the Company's development plan for its New Mexico properties will proceed incrementally, subject to timely permitting, the availability of water rights and the availability of capital. The Company plans to develop the Churchrock district first, with production targeted for 1998, and the Crownpoint district next, with production targeted for 1999.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
NRC License. In New Mexico, uranium production requires a radioactive materials license issued by the NRC. The Company has applied for one NRC license covering all properties located in both the
Churchrock and Crownpoint districts (except the Mancos property) and has included the properties in both districts (except the Mancos leases) under one Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) which is a prerequisite for the NRC license.
The NRC has finalized and completed the publication of the FEIS in the first quarter of 1997. The FEIS is subject to review and comment by the EPA and any cooperating agencies and is available to the public. Upon publication, and in the absence of any litigation concerning the FEIS, the NRC may issue the NRC license. However, the NRC has published notice of an opportunity for a hearing on the license which is currently planned for early 1997. Although the NRC may defer a hearing on licensure until after a license is issued, it is unclear whether the NRC will do so. There can be no assurance that the license will be issued or, if issued, that it will allow for the Company's planned operations, or that, if issued, the license would be issued on a timely basis to permit the Company to meet its targeted production schedule for the Churchrock district.
UIC Permit. NMED has jurisdiction under the New Mexico Water Quality Act to regulate UIC activities within the State of New Mexico, and the New Mexico UIC program has received "primary enforcement responsibility" from the EPA under the federal SDWA. However, by the terms of regulations issued by the EPA and the primacy determination made for the State of New Mexico, New Mexico's UIC primacy does not extend to New Mexico's exercise of UIC regulation or permitting over facilities located on "Indian lands," a term whose geographic reach the EPA has defined as coextensive with that of Indian country. Because even a permit issued by a state holding UIC primacy cannot suffice in lieu of a federal UIC permit issued under the SDWA unless the EPA issued a corresponding aquifer exemption or temporary aquifer designation, the EPA's opinion that a site lies within Indian country virtually compels a state UIC applicant to secure an EPA UIC permit for UIC activities to be conducted on such a site. The EPA has announced it may assert that all of the Company's New Mexico development properties lie within Indian country and thus require UIC permits issued by the EPA.
In addition to the EPA's assertions, the Navajo Nation claims regulatory jurisdiction over all of the Company's New Mexico development properties. These claims subject the development of the property to further uncertainties, including a potential for delays in UIC permitting until and unless a Navajo regulatory program is promulgated and accepted by the EPA for a determination of primacy. Although a Navajo UIC program may adopt unique application, permitting, and enforcement procedures, it would, nonetheless, be required to impose virtually the same substantive requirements as the Company is prepared to satisfy under existing New Mexico and EPA UIC programs.
This dispute over UIC jurisdiction is currently focused on a portion of the Churchrock and Crownpoint properties. Despite this current jurisdictional dispute among the EPA, the State of New Mexico, and the Navajo Nation, the Company maintains good relations with the state of New Mexico, the Navajo Nation, and the EPA. However, there can be no assurance that the jurisdictional dispute will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's development plans in New Mexico.
Water Rights. For general information on water rights in New Mexico, see "Business-Environmental Considerations and Permitting; Water Rights."
CHURCHROCK DISTRICT
The Property. The Churchrock properties encompass 2,225 gross and net acres and include mineral leases, patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. The properties are located in McKinley County, New Mexico, and consist of three parcels, known as Section 8, Section 17 and Mancos. None of these parcels lies within the area generally recognized as constituting the Navajo Reservation. The Company owns mineral leases for both Sections 17 and the Mancos properties. The surface estate on Section 17 is owned by the Navajo Nation. The Company owns patented and unpatented mining claims on Section 8. The Company is obligated to pay certain royalties based on uranium sales. The unpatented claims currently require an annual payment of $100 per claim payable to the Bureau of Land Management
to remain in full force and effect and are subject to certain overrides. The Mancos leases can be held indefinitely by paying certain annual royalties after the primary term, which expired in 1994. The Section 17 leases expire in 1998. Production at any time will hold the leases until production ceases. On March 25, 1997, the Company acquired from Santa Fe, the fee mineral interests in Section 17 and Mancos thereby extinguishing certain of the royalty obligations on those properties.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1996, Section 8 contained approximately 6.5 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 4.2 million pounds recoverable), Section 17 contained approximately 8.4 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 5.5 million pounds recoverable), and the Mancos property contained approximately 4.2 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.7 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed in accordance with the licenses issued by the NRC. It is anticipated that the first property to be licensed will be Churchrock. Costs related to permitting activities and land holding costs were $600,000 in 1996. The Company anticipates spending approximately $12.3 million in 1997 and $7.3 million in 1998 for plant construction, permitting, development and land holding costs. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with these activities of approximately $10.0 million which it expects to meet by posting a bond collaterized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Exploration Potential. The measured in-place reserves in Sections 8 and 17 and Mancos encompass only a small portion of the properties owned by the Company. The Company believes that substantial additional mineralization exists on these properties. Because of greater depths, this mineralization is estimated to be recoverable at a higher cost and accordingly require higher uranium prices to make them economical to produce.
Water Rights. The Company originally acquired mineral leases on Sections 8 and 17 from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC") and, in connection therewith, acquired certain rights to use water from UNC. An application to use one of these rights has been the subject of extensive administrative proceedings and litigation with the New Mexico State Engineer and the Navajo Nation over the nature and extent of UNC's water rights. The State Engineer determined that the consumptive use and diversion amount UNC originally sought to transfer for use by the Company were in excess of the rights held by UNC and denied the application on the grounds that the UNC rights were insufficient to support the Company's mining operations. The Company has since revised its water budget to be consistent with the rights of UNC as determined by the State Engineer. The State Engineer has agreed to hear a revised application for the transfer of the water rights within 180 days after the application is submitted. The Company anticipates filing a revised application or applications for new temporary appropriation of water. A claim by the Navajo Nation to jurisdiction over these water rights was denied by the State Engineer and the state district court. These decisions do not preclude such a claim from being made in federal court.
Permitting Status. On June 21, 1989 the EPA issued its aquifer exemption covering that portion of the Churchrock site known as Section 8, and on November 1, 1989, NMED issued its permit, covering UIC activities on Section 8. On October 7, 1994, NMED issued an amended permit covering UIC activities on both Section 8 and Section 17. The permit for Section 17 was contested by the Navajo Nation which claimed UIC regulatory jurisdiction over the site, based on the fact that the surface estate is owned by the Navajo Nation. The EPA, acting as an advocate for the Navajo Nation, has asserted the Navajo Nation's claim and has refused to amend its previously issued aquifer exemption covering Section 8 to add the portion of the Churchrock facility on Section 17. The EPA has subsequently announced it may reconsider its issuance of an aquifer exemption covering the Section 8 portion of the Churchrock site. The Company does not plan to pursue permits for Mancos until uranium prices rise.
In June 1996 the Company filed with the NMED two applications to renew the permit in two distinct parts, one covering the Section 8 portion and the other the Section 17 portion of Churchrock. This was to assure that the Company maintained a "clear" UIC authorization on the Section 8 portion of the site.
The surface estate on Section 8 is not owned by the Navajo Nation or Navajo allottees. Because the renewal application was timely filed, the permit covering the Section 8 property has remained continuously in effect pending final determination on the renewal application by the NMED. The Navajo Nation has recently asserted jurisdiction over the UIC for Section 8, claiming that the land lies within a "dependent Indian community." The EPA has not yet taken a position on this issue. This situation could potentially delay or obstruct development of Section 8. The renewal application pertaining to the Section 17 property will be subject to a new administrative review which will ultimately require EPA to re-examine the jurisdictional status. If the EPA does not find the site within NMED jurisdiction, the Company believes the state will file suit for a declaration of UIC jurisdiction over the site. The outcome of this suit may ultimately affect UIC jurisdiction on all Indian lands.
CROWNPOINT DISTRICT
The Property. The Crownpoint properties are located in the San Juan Basin, 22 miles northeast of the Company's Churchrock deposits and 35 miles northeast of Gallup, New Mexico, adjacent to the town of Crownpoint. The Properties consist of 1,578 gross and net acres, as follows:
(a) 162 gross and net acres on Section 24. The Company has 100% of the mineral estate on this acreage pursuant to a combination of a 40% fee interest, a mineral lease on the other 60% of the mineral estate (expiring in April 1997 unless the parties agree to an extension) and unpatented mining claims. This acreage is subject to an obligation of the Company to pay a production payment on the first 50,000 pounds of uranium produced and an override based on uranium sales;
(b) 959 gross and net acres on Sections 19 and 29 pursuant to a lease from private mineral owners (expiring August 2007) which provides for royalties and an override based on uranium sales; and
(c) 457 gross and net acres of unpatented mining claims in Sections 9, 24 and 25.
In addition to the foregoing, the Company has 1,440 gross and net acres of mineral leases (hereinafter referred to as "Unit 1") from Navajo allottees who are the beneficial owners of the surface and mineral rights. The leases are subject to approval by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the "BIA"). The BIA Area Director is expected to approve the leases after completion of the FEIS. Although not assured, this approval is expected in the second quarter of 1997. These leases expire 10 years after the approval by the BIA.
Reserves. With respect to all the Crownpoint acreage except Unit 1, as of December 31, 1996, the property contained approximately 39.0 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 25.3 million pounds recoverable). The Company estimates that Unit 1 contains approximately 27.0 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 17.6 million pounds recoverable). The Unit 1 reserves are not included as part of the Company's reserve base.
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed according to the licenses issued by the NRC. It is anticipated that the first property to be licensed will be Churchrock followed by Unit 1 and Crownpoint after 1998. Costs relating to permitting activities and land holding costs were $710,000 in 1996, and are expected to total $200,000 in 1997 and $200,000 in 1998.
Water Rights. With respect to Crownpoint, the Company has acquired three applications for appropriations of water which give the Company the first three "positions in line" on the hearings list for the San Juan Basin. Certain aspects of all three applications were protested and are subject to hearings. Water rights relating to Unit 1 involve the issue of the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation, and this jurisdictional issue might also be present for other parts of Crownpoint. The Company plans to proceed with water rights for Crownpoint at a future date.
Permitting Status. The application for the NRC license is part of the overall application for both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts discussed above. The Company had previously submitted UIC permit applications for Sections 19 and 24; however, because of Section 19's proximity to the town of Crownpoint, the Company withdrew these previous applications. The Company has recently submitted a revised UIC permit application for Section 24. There can be no assurance that the UIC permit will be granted. The surface estate on Section 19 and 29 is owned by the Navajo Nation and may be subject to the same jurisdictional dispute as for Section 17 in Churchrock.
SANTA FE PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company signed a letter of intent in November 1996 to acquire from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium in New Mexico. This transaction closed in March 1997 and the major components of the transaction include the following detail.
The Properties. The properties consist of: (a) 37,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired a fee interest in the entire mineral estate, excluding coal ("Category I Properties"); (b) approximately 140,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the fee interest in uranium (the "Category II Properties"); and (c) approximately 346,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the exclusive right to explore for uranium (the "Category III Properties").
The Company is obligated to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) $200,000 per year for the ten year period starting in March 1997 and $400,000 per year for the seven year period starting in March 2007. This expenditure can be made on any of the Category II or Category III properties.
The license is for 17 years, expiring in March 2014. In the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $25 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $5 million; and in the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $30 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $10 million.
With respect to Category II and Category III properties, at such time as URI shall apply for a mining permit with respect to any such properties Santa Fe has the right to put the remaining mineral interests owned by it (excluding coal) to the Company at a price of $200 per acre for any acreage in any section which is covered by the mining application. The acreage price shall be increased by the same percentage as the percentage increase in the price of uranium on the date of such application over $15.80 per pound. URI has the option to purchase at any time the entire mineral estates (excluding coal) on such properties on the same terms.
Reserves. The Company estimates that the Category I Properties contain 14.7 million pounds of proven in-place uranium reserves (estimated 9.6 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The planned development strategy is to dove-tail qualified properties from the Santa Fe lands into the production plans for Churchrock and Crownpoint.
Exploration Potential. There is significant exploration potential for the Santa Fe properties. Numerous ore grade holes drilled on the properties demonstrates this potential; however, because the depths of the deposits are not delineated, development costs are uncertain.
RECLAIMED PROPERTIES
The Company has completed production and groundwater restoration on its Benavides and Longoria projects in South Texas. The Company is currently completing the final stages of surface reclamation on these projects which the Company believes will not involve material expenditures.
On August 28, 1995, Manuel T. Longoria, as owner of the ranch containing the site of the Company's Longoria mine, brought suit against the Company in state district court in Duval County, Texas, asserting claims said to have arisen at various times over the last eighteen years. See "Business- Legal Proceedings."
The Company acquired the Section 17 leases in the New Mexico Churchrock district from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC"). UNC had conducted underground mining for uranium on Section 17 and had reclaimed these properties. In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed any liability of UNC for any remaining remediation work that might be required. NMED has not determined what, if any, additional remediation will be required under the New Mexico Mining Act. If more remediation work is required, the Company believes it will not involve material expenditures.
RECLAMATION AND RESTORATION COSTS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS
Upon completion of production from a wellfield, the Company is obligated under state and federal law to restore the aquifer to a condition consistent with its pre-mining use. This involves restoration of the aquifer, plugging and abandoning the injection and production wells and reclaiming the surface. With respect to operations at Kingsville Dome and Rosita, as well as reclamation and restoration of the Benavides and Longoria projects, the TNRCC requires the Company to provide financial surety to cover the costs of such restoration and reclamation. The surety bond requirement at December 31, 1996 was approximately $5.6 million. The Company fulfills this requirement through the issuance of surety bonds from the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G") and has deposited as collateral for such bonds cash of approximately $2.8 million. The Company is obligated to fund the cash collateral account with an additional $0.50 for each pound of uranium production until the account accumulates an additional $1.0 million. The Company estimates that its future reclamation liabilities with respect to current operations at December 31, 1996 approximates $4.0 million, which has been charged to earnings. These financial surety obligations are reviewed and revised annually by the TNRCC.
The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety of approximately $3.0 million as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the mining of each of the Alta Mesa and Vasquez projects. The Company anticipates that USF&G or other bonding entities will provide the requisite bond under arrangements similar to those in place for Rosita and Kingsville Dome.
In New Mexico surety bonding will be required prior to development of the properties. The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety of approximately $10.0 million as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the Churchrock project which it anticipates will be provided by USF&G, or other bonding entities under arrangements similar to those in place for Rosita and Kingsville Dome. The amount of the surety bond is subject to annual review and revision by the NRC and State of New Mexico.
ITEM 3.