Item 2. Properties - New Mexico Development Properties - Crownpoint District.
THE ISL MINING PROCESS
The ISL mining process, a form of solution mining, differs dramatically from conventional mining techniques. The ISL technique avoids the movement and milling of significant quantities of rock and ore as well as mill tailings waste associated with more traditional mining methods and generally results in a more cost-effective and more environmentally-benign extraction operation in comparison to conventional uranium mining. Historically, the majority of U.S. uranium production resulted from either open pit surface mines or underground shaft operations. These conventional mining methods are, in many cases, capital and labor intensive and are not cost competitive with the majority of non-U.S. conventional producers.
The ISL process was first tested for the production of uranium in the mid-1960's and was first applied to a commercial-scale project in 1975 in South Texas. The ISL process had become well established in the South Texas uranium district by the late 1970's, where it was employed in connection with approximately twenty commercial projects, including two operated by the Company.
In the ISL process, groundwater fortified with oxygen and other solubilizing agents is pumped into a permeable ore body causing the uranium contained in the ore to dissolve. The resulting solution is pumped to the surface where the uranium is removed from the solution and processed to a dried form of uranium which is shipped to conversion facilities for sale to the Company's customers.
An ISL project involves several major components:
ORE BODY EVALUATION
Ore bodies which are currently being mined by the ISL process are associated with groundwater saturated permeable sandstone formations typically located between 100 and 2,000 feet below the surface. The uranium ore is deposited in a roll front configuration where the groundwater passing through the sandstone passes from a natural oxidizing environment to a naturally occurring reducing environment. This change causes the dissolved uranium in the groundwater to become insoluble, and it then attaches to the grains of the sandstone. Some important factors in evaluating an ore body for the ISL process are permeability, the thickness of the ore zone, depth, size, grade of ore, shape of the ore body, nature of uranium mineralization, host rock mineralogy, and the hydrology. These factors are important in determining the design of the wellfield, the type and flow of the leaching solution, and the nature of the surface ISL facilities.
WELLFIELD DESIGN
The wellfield is the mechanism by which the leaching solution, or lixiviant, is circulated through the ore body. The wellfield consists of a series of injection, production (extraction) and monitoring wells drilled in specified patterns. These patterns will vary primarily with the configuration of the ore and the hydrologic characteristics of each deposit. Determining the wellfield pattern is crucial to minimizing costs and maximizing efficiencies of production. Injection and production wells vary in diameter from four to six inches. Generally, these wells are drilled down to the bottom of the ore zone (through which the lixiviant must be circulated to achieve production). Injection and production wells are cased with polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") or fiberglass casings which are cemented in place from the bottom of the ore zone to the surface. The wells are then completed into the ore zone.
LIXIVIANT CHEMISTRY
The lixiviant, consisting of native groundwater fortified with an oxidant and an anionic complexing agent, is introduced via the injection wells to the ore bearing aquifer. The oxidant (gaseous oxygen) changes the uranium valence state making the uranium soluble in the lixiviant. The lixiviant (sodium bicarbonate) complexes the original uranium to a soluble ion, uranyl dicarbonate, which dissolves the uranium. The dissolved uranium then flows to the surface with the lixiviant fluid which is circulated through the ore body until economic recovery is achieved.
URANIUM RECOVERY PROCESS
The uranium recovery process consists of a lixiviant circuit, an elution/precipitation circuit and a drying and packaging process. The lixiviant circuit flows from the ore body, where the uranium is dissolved. The lixiviant stream is then circulated to an ion exchange column on the surface where uranium is extracted from the lixiviant by absorption onto the resin beads of the ion exchange columns. The lixiviant is then refortified and reinjected into the ore body. When the ion exchange column's resin beads are loaded with uranium, the loaded uranium is removed and placed into the elution circuit where the uranium is flushed with a salt water solution which precipitates the uranium from the beads. This leaves the uranium in a slurry, which is then dried and packaged for shipment as uranium powder.
The Company has historically utilized a central plant for the ion exchange portion of the production process. In order to increase operating efficiency and reduce future capital expenditures, the Company began the design and development of wellfield-specific remote ion exchange methodology. Instead of piping the solutions over large distances through large diameter pipe lines and mixing the waters of several wellfields together, each wellfield will be mined using a dedicated satellite ion exchange facility. This will allow for ion exchange to take place at the wellfield instead of at the central plant.
Nominal design for the remote ion exchange facilities flow will be in the range of 1,200 gpm, about 25% of the design flow of the central plant at the Kingsville Dome project. Each of these units will consist of several ion-exchange columns and a resin transfer facility. When fully loaded with uranium, the resin will be transferred to a trailer and the resin trucked to the central plant for elution. After stripping the uranium from the resin, the resin will be transferred into the trailer and transported back to the satellite plant at the wellfield.
These satellite facilities will allow each wellfield to be mined using its own native groundwater only, thus eliminating the problems associated with progressive buildup of dissolved solids in the groundwaters and thereby enhancing mining efficiencies and uranium recoveries.
WELLFIELD RESTORATION
At the conclusion of mining, the mine site is decommissioned and decontaminated and the well-field is restored and reclaimed. Wellfield restoration involves returning the aquifer to a condition consistent with its pre-mining use and removing evidences of surface disturbance. The restoration of the wellfield can be accomplished by flushing the ore zone for a time with native ground water and/or using reverse osmosis to remove ions, minerals and salts to provide clean water for reinjection to flush the ore zone. Decommissioning and decontamination of the mine site entails decontamination, dismantling and removal for disposal or reuse of the structures, equipment and materials used at the site during the mining and restoration activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PERMITTING; WATER RIGHTS
The production of uranium is subject to extensive regulations, including federal and state (and potentially tribal) environmental regulations, that have a material effect on the economics of the Company's operations and the timing of project development. The Company's primary regulatory costs have been related to obtaining and complying with the regulatory licenses and permits that must be obtained from federal and state agencies prior to the commencement of uranium mining activities.
Environmental considerations include the prevention of groundwater contamination by vertical or horizontal escape of leaching solution (through proper design and operation of the wellfield and the use of monitoring wells to detect any potential excursions from the mining area) and the treatment and disposal of liquid and/or solid discrete surface waste or by-product materials (so-called "11e. (2) by-product material" under federal law). The majority of by-product material that is generated is liquid and generally is disposed of by a combination of reverse osmosis, brine concentration and evaporation or, after treatment, by surface deposition or discharge or through underground injection wells. Any such disposal must be approved by the governing authority having jurisdiction over that aspect of the Company's activities. Once mining is completed, the Company is required to reclaim the surface areas and restore underground water quality to the level of quality mandated by applicable regulations or license requirements. A small amount of solid discrete surface waste materials generated by the ISL process is disposed of by delivery to a licensed by-product material disposal site or to a licensed conventional uranium mill tailings pile. While such sites may not be readily available in the future, the Company believes that any increase in the cost of such disposal will continue to be insignificant relative to total costs of production and will not be a material portion of restoration/reclamation costs.
In both Texas and New Mexico there are two primary regulatory authorizations required prior to operations: a radioactive material license and underground injection control ("UIC") permits which relate both to the injection of water for production purposes and to the disposal of by-product material through underground injection wells. Uranium mining is subject to regulation by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC") under the federal Atomic Energy Act ("AEA"); however, the AEA also allows for states with regulatory programs deemed satisfactory by the NRC to take primary responsibility for licensing and regulating certain activities, such as uranium recovery operations. When a state seeks this responsibility, it enters into an agreement with the NRC whereby the NRC agrees to recede from the exercise of most of its counterpart jurisdiction, leaving the matters to be administered by the state. Texas has entered into such an agreement; however, New Mexico is not a party to such an agreement.
The federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA") creates a nationwide regulatory program protecting groundwater which is administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). To avoid the burden of dual federal and state (or Indian tribal) regulation, the SDWA allows for the permits issued by the UIC regulatory programs of states and Indian tribes determined eligible for treatment as states to suffice in place of a UIC permit required under the SDWA. A state whose UIC program has been determined sufficient for this purpose is said to have been granted "primary enforcement responsibility" or "primacy," and a UIC permit from a state with primacy suffices in lieu of an EPA-issued permit, provided the EPA grants, upon request by the permitting state, an "aquifer exemption" or "temporary aquifer designation" modifying the permitting state's UIC program to recognize the temporary placement of mining fluids into the intended mining zone within the horizontal confines of the proposed mining area. Although the EPA's consent to aquifer exemptions or temporary aquifer designations for certain mineral deposits is often issued almost automatically, the EPA may delay or decline to process the state's application if the EPA questions the state's jurisdiction over the mine site. Both Texas and New Mexico have been granted "primacy" for their UIC programs, and the Navajo Nation has been determined eligible for treatment as a state but is not due to submit its program for EPA approval for several years. Until such time as the Navajo Nation has been granted "primacy," ISL uranium mining activities within Navajo Nation jurisdiction will require a UIC permit from the EPA. Despite some procedural differences, the substantive requirements of the Texas, New Mexico and EPA UIC programs are very similar.
In addition to its radioactive materials licenses and UIC permit, the Company is also required to obtain from appropriate governmental authorities a number of other permits or exemptions, such as for waste water discharge, land application of treated waste water, or for air emissions.
The current environmental regulatory program for the ISL industry is well established. Many ISL mines have gone full cycle through the permit-operating-restoration cycle without any significant environmental impact. However, the public anti-nuclear lobby can make environmental permitting difficult and permit timing less than predictable.
In Texas, the radioactive materials license required for ISL uranium mining is granted by the Texas Department of Health ("TDH") and the UIC permits are granted by the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission ("TNRCC"). The TNRCC also regulates air quality and surface deposition or discharge of treated wastewater associated with the ISL mining process. In order for a licensee to receive final release from further radioactive materials license obligations after all of its mining and post-mining clean-up has been completed, approval must be issued by the TDH along with concurrence from the NRC.
In New Mexico, radioactive materials' licensing is handled directly by the NRC, rather than by the State of New Mexico. Furthermore, depending upon whether a site located within New Mexico falls under state or Navajo Nation jurisdiction, the permitting of the UIC aspects of ISL mining may be conducted by either the New Mexico Environmental Department ("NMED") or the EPA or possibly both in case of jurisdictional conflict. The jurisdictional issue when raised as to any development property, could result in litigation between the state and the EPA, with the possibility of delays in the issuance of affected UIC permits. The Company is currently a party to such litigation with respect to certain of its New Mexico properties. See "Litigation".
Water is essential to the ISL process. It is readily available in South Texas for the Company's operations and obtaining water rights is not required because water is subject to capture. In New Mexico the use of water rights is administered through the New Mexico State Engineer subject to Indian tribal jurisdictional claims. The State Engineer carefully and strictly regulates obtaining new water rights, and the transfer or change in use of existing water rights. The State Engineer may also grant an application for a "temporary water right" which will not establish a vested right but may provide a sufficient quantity of water to fulfill the applicant's needs. The State Engineer exercises jurisdiction over underground water basins with "reasonably ascertainable boundaries." Accordingly, new appropriations or changes in purpose or place of use or points of diversion of existing water rights, such as those in the San Juan and Gallup Basins where the Company's properties are located, must be obtained by permit from the State Engineer. Applications are required to be published and are subject to hearing if protested. There are three criteria for decision, that the application: (1) not impair existing water rights, (2) not be contrary to the conservation of water within New Mexico, and (3) not be detrimental to the public welfare. Applications may be approved subject to conditions that govern exercise of the water rights. Appeals from decisions of the State Engineer are to the district court of the county in which the work or point of desired appropriation is situated and from there to the New Mexico Court of Appeals. Finally, jurisdiction over water rights may become an issue in New Mexico when an Indian nation, such as the Navajo Nation, objects to the State Engineer's authority to grant or transfer a water right or to award a temporary water right, claiming tribal jurisdiction over Indian country. This issue could result in litigation between the Indian nation and the state which may delay action on water right applications, and, depending on who prevails as to any particular property, could result in a requirement to make applications to the appropriate Indian nation and continuing jurisdiction by the Indian nation over use of the water. All of the foregoing issues arise to a greater or lesser extent in connection with the Company's New Mexico properties.
There can be no assurance that the regulatory permits or licenses in Texas or New Mexico, or the applications for water rights in New Mexico, required for any project of the Company will be approved by the necessary governing authority in the form contemplated by management, or in any other form, or within the time periods necessary to commence timely production. Additionally, regulations and permit requirements are subject to revisions and changes that may materially affect the Company's operations. Any delay or failure in obtaining such permits or water rights could materially and adversely affect the business and operations of the Company.
In addition to the costs and responsibilities associated with obtaining and maintaining permits, and the regulation of production activities, the Company is subject to those environmental laws and regulations applicable to the ownership and operation of real property in general, including but not limited to the potential responsibility for the activities of prior owners and operators.
THE URANIUM INDUSTRY
GENERAL
The only significant commercial use for uranium is to fuel nuclear power plants for the generation of electricity. At November 30, 1998, 429 nuclear power plants were operating in the world including 104 in the United States. It is estimated that these plants consumed 163 million pounds of uranium during the year.
Nuclear plants generated approximately 17% of the world's electricity in 1997 up from less than 2% in 1970. In the United States nuclear power plants generated approximately 20.1% of the country's electricity needs and 36% of the electricity needs of the European Union. According to the Uranium Institute, nuclear generating capacity is expected to grow at an approximate 1% rate through the year 2005 and annual consumption of uranium is projected to range between 164 - 176 million pounds.
MARKET PRICE FORMATION
At December 31, 1998 the spot price was $8.75 per pound U(3)O(8) (the form in which the Company sells its production) compared to $12.05 at December 31, 1997. As the following graph depicts, 1998 represented the lowest level of utility contracting for U(3)O(8) for any year to date during the 1990's. This lack of contract demand was a direct result of extremely heavy demand that occurred during 1996; a period in which spot prices rose to $16.50 per pound. In 1999 there is expected to be a solid recovery in utility contract activity which the Company believes will fuel a recovery in spot prices. In January 1999, the spot price increased to $10.50 per pound, the price has increased to $10.85 at March 22, 1999.
UTILITY LONG-TERM CONTRACTING VOLUME OVER THE 1990-1999 PERIOD
[GRAPH]
COPYRIGHT 1999, THE UX CONSULTING COMPANY, LLC SOURCE: THE URANIUM MARKET OUTLOOK - JANUARY 1999
A large percentage of utility U(3)O(8) requirements to fuel reactor operations for 2000 and beyond is uncontracted as set forth in the following graph. Utilities typically become active in covering a majority of their uncontracted needs 12 to 18 months in advance. Therefore, the Company believes that it will witness a significant increase in contracting activity during 1999.
UNCONTRACTED UTILITY REQUIREMENTS, 1999-2008
[GRAPH]
COPYRIGHT 1999, THE UX CONSULTING COMPANY, LLC SOURCE: THE URANIUM MARKET OUTLOOK - JANUARY 1999
SOURCES OF SUPPLY
Traditional Supply Sources
Based on reports by the Ux Consulting Company, LLC ("Ux") and the Uranium Institute ("UI"), worldwide production of uranium (U(3)O(8)) for 1998 is estimated to be approximately 88.7 million pounds down from 92.8 million pounds in 1997. A significant reduction to approximately 77 million pounds is expected in 1999 based upon cutbacks announced by major uranium producers as a result of depressed market prices during 1998. At this rate, production will meet only 47% of estimated consumption by utilities during 1999 of approximately 164 million pounds.
Production from existing mines is projected by Ux to decline during the next few years as lower cost reserves are exhausted. Accordingly, production from existing mines in the year 2005 is projected by Ux to be only 50 million pounds. This represents less than 30% of consumption as projected by the UI for 2005 of approximately 175 million pounds. Consumption has outstripped production in each year since 1985 with the shortfalls filled by drawdowns of inventories amassed prior to that time. The UI estimates that excess utility inventory (inventory in excess of preferred inventory) at the end of 1998 was approximately 105 million pounds, less than one year of forward reactor requirements. Preferred inventory is by nature influenced by price. In rising markets utilities tend to build inventory as a hedge against future price increases. Conversely, utilities tend to reduce inventory in falling markets. Both actions exaggerate price movement. Producers, traders and other market participants were judged to have approximately 78 million pounds of inventory at the end of 1997. A significant portion of this total is normal inventory levels, but it can serve to reduce production requirements. The Company believes that approximately 50% or 39 million pounds may be considered excess to normal inventory levels. The total "excess inventory" of utilities and producers, therefore is estimated to be approximately 144 million pounds.
Non-Traditional Supply Sources
As excess inventory is reduced, the availability of non-traditional supplies will play an increasingly important role in establishing market equilibrium. These supplies consist of Government stockpiles, Russian and U.S. highly enriched uranium ("HEU"), inventory of the United States Enrichment Corporation ("USEC"), tails re-enrichment, and savings achieved through the reprocessing of spent fuel. The following chart represents the rate at which the Company believes non-traditional supplies could be available to the market place through 2005:
DESCRIPTIONS:
Russian HEU: In 1993, the U.S. and Russia entered into an Agreement to convert highly enriched uranium ("HEU") derived from dismantling Russian nuclear weapons into fuel suitable for use in commercial reactors. At a maximum conversion rate of 30 metric tons HEU per annum approximately 24 million pounds of U(3)O(8) would be available in each year of which approximately 6.7 million pounds per year will be used internally by Russia.
U.S. HEU: Rate of sale estimated by the UI. Sales are subject to a determination to be made by the Secretary of Energy, as required under the USEC Privatization Act, that such sales will have no adverse impact on the domestic mining industry or the U.S./Russia HEU Agreement.
USEC Inventory: In July 1998, USEC consummated its privatization with a public offering of stock. In its prospectus USEC disclosed that it had inventory of approximately 75 million pounds U(3)O(8) equivalent of which approximately 61 million pounds would be available to sell through 2005. This
inventory represents amounts of uranium transferred to it by the DOE. Additional inventory may be realized through USEC's ability to underfeed its enrichment plants through the same period. The rate of USEC's sales as indicated in the above chart were determined by Nuclear Assurance Corp. - a leading industry consultant.
Reprocessing: It is expected that reprocessing of spent fuel will save 5-7 million pounds of demand in each year through 2005. This activity is primarily focused in Europe and Japan.
Tails Re-enrichment: This is a new activity primarily pursued by Russia in order to utilize their excess enrichment capacity. The Company estimates that this activity could yield approximately 6.0 million pounds U(3)O(8) per annum through 2005.
The potential disposition of Government inventories is the most significant non-traditional supply factor effecting the market. On March 24, 1999 an agreement between Tenex, the commercial arm of the Russian Federations' Ministry of Atomic Energy, and three Western commercial entities was executed that will provide more certainty regarding the disposition of Russian HEU derived uranium. In an effort to support this transaction and the continuation of the U.S./Russia HEU Agreement, DOE budgeted $325 million to pay for approximately 28 million pounds of HEU derived uranium delivered to the U.S. during 1997-1998. As part of this agreement, DOE will hold this purchased uranium, and its own remaining inventory (approximately 30 million pounds) off the market for a ten year period beginning in 1999. The Company believes that these events will have a positive impact on current market conditions.
REQUIRED PRIMARY PRODUCTION
New production will be needed to fill the gap between utility demand and the estimated supply sources. The following table represents the Company's estimate of new production required to reach market equilibrium through 2005:
*Represents the Company's estimate of annual timing of excess inventory drawdowns totaling 144 million pounds from 1999-2005.
The above table indicates that new production will be required starting in 2000. This production, however, will not be forthcoming at current market prices. Further, any reduction or delay in the availability of non-traditional supplies will increase the need for new production. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully compete against larger and better capitalized producers for a share of such production.
URANIUM PRICES
Spot prices reflect the price at which uranium may be purchased for delivery within one year. Historically, spot prices have been more volatile than long-term contract prices, increasing from $6.00 per pound in 1973 to $43.00 per pound in 1978, then declining to a low of $7.25 per pound in October 1991. The spot price per pound as of March 22, 1999 was $10.85.
The following graph shows spot prices per pound from 1978 to March 22, 1999, as reported by Trade Tech.
[GRAPH]
- --------- All prices beginning in 1993 represent U(3)O(8) deliveries available to U.S. utilities.
COMPETITION
The Company markets uranium to utilities in direct competition with supplies available from various sources worldwide. The Company competes primarily on the basis of price.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
SOUTH TEXAS PRODUCING PROPERTIES
The Company currently has two producing properties which are located in South Texas, Rosita and Kingsville Dome. The following is a description of those properties.
KINGSVILLE DOME
The Property. The Kingsville Dome property consists of mineral leases from private landowners (and a small portion owned in fee) on 3,068 gross (3,043 net) acres located in central Kleberg County, Texas. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 1999 to 2007. With a few minor exceptions, all the leases contain shut-in royalty clauses which permit the Company to extend the leases not held by production by payment of a royalty.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1998, the property contained approximately 2.3 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 1.8 million pounds recoverable).
Production History. Initial production commenced in May 1988. In May 1989, due to the continuing decline in the spot price of uranium, the Company deferred development of the next wellfield, and the plant was shut-in in September 1990. Total production from May 1988 through September 1990 was approximately 1.5 million pounds.
Wellfield development activities resumed in December 1995, and production commenced in March 1996. Production at Kingsville Dome was approximately 1.9 million pounds from recommencement of production in March 1996 through December 31, 1998 with 445,000 pounds produced in 1998.
The Company plans to shut-in and place on stand-by production at the Kingsville Dome site in early 1999 because of the outlook for near-term uranium market conditions. Nominal production from this site is expected to continue provided the incremental production costs at this facility are at or below the cost of purchasing uranium in the marketplace.
Further Development Potential. As part of the Company's historical production activities, it has engaged in significant development and exploration efforts at Kingsville Dome. Additional exploration activities are not currently planned and are not anticipated until uranium market conditions firm. The Company spent approximately $3.0 million in capital expenditures in 1998 and does not project to make significant expenditures in 1999.
Permitting Status. Radioactive material licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments to the license and permit for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended.
Restoration and Reclamation. Restoration of groundwater was conducted during 1998 and is expected to continue in 1999.
ROSITA
The Property. The Rosita property consists of mineral leases on 3,359 gross and net acres located in northeastern Duval County, Texas. All the leases, except minor leases, are held by production. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1998, the property contained approximately 348,000 pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 261,000 pounds recoverable).
Production History. The Company began initial production at Rosita in October 1990. Total production from Rosita for the eighteen months through March 31, 1992 was approximately 1.1 million pounds. In March 1992, due to depressed uranium prices, the Company shut-in production.
Wellfield development activities resumed at Rosita in March 1995 and production recommenced in June 1995. From that date through December 31, 1998 approximately 1.5 million pounds were produced with 178,000 pounds produced in 1998.
The Company plans to shut-in and place on stand-by production at the Rosita site in early 1999 because of the outlook for near-term uranium market conditions. Nominal production from this site is expected to continue provided the incremental production costs at this facility are at or below the cost of purchasing uranium in the marketplace.
Further Development Potential. The Company estimates that there are approximately 261,000 pounds of uranium remaining to be produced from the Rosita project. The timing of production from this property will be dependent upon future uranium prices, the availability of sales contracts and the availability of capital. The Company spent approximately $244,000 for development activities, permitting and land holding costs in 1998. Significant expenditures for these activities are not expected in 1999.
Permitting Status. Radioactive materials licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Company began groundwater restoration during 1998 and expects to continue these activities in 1999.
SOUTH TEXAS DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
VASQUEZ
The Property. The property consists of two mineral leases on 842 gross and net acres located in southwestern Duval County, Texas. These leases expire in February 2000, subject to extension for permitting delays. The leases provide for royalties based on uranium sales. The Company leases are with the owner of both the surface of the land and the uranium estate. As a result of these leases, the Company has the right to mine 100% of the uranium on this property.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1998, the property contained approximately 3.7 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.4 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The timing of production will be dependent on a number of factors. The Company spent approximately $440,000 in capital expenditures in 1998 and does not anticipate significant expenditures in 1999. Prior to the commencement of production at Vasquez the Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety of approximately $1.0 million which it expects to meet by posting a bond collateralized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Permitting Status. All of the required permits for this property except the Production Area Authorization ("PAA") have been received from the TNRCC and the TDH. The permit application for the PAA has been completed and submitted to the TNRCC. This application is currently under review and the Company expects the permit to be in place in 1999.
NEW MEXICO DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company has various interests in properties located in the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts in New Mexico. As to these properties, the Company holds both patented and unpatented mining claims, mineral leases and some surface leases from private parties, the Navajo Nation and Navajo allottees. In addition, in March 1997, the Company acquired from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium on significant acreage in New Mexico, a small portion of which falls within the Churchrock district.
In keeping with its overall corporate strategy, the Company's development plan for its New Mexico properties will proceed incrementally, subject to timely permitting, the availability of water rights, the availability of sales contracts and the availability of capital. The Company plans to develop the Churchrock district first and the Crownpoint district next.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
NRC License. In New Mexico, uranium production requires a radioactive materials license issued by the NRC. The Company has applied for one NRC license covering all properties located in both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts (except the Mancos property) and has included the properties in both districts (except the Mancos leases) under one Final Environmental Impact Statement ("FEIS") which is a prerequisite for the NRC license.
The NRC has finalized and completed the publication of the FEIS in the first quarter of 1997. The NRC issued an operating license in January 1998 that would allow operations to begin in the Churchrock district. In mid-1998, the NRC determined that certain Churchrock and Crownpoint residents who requested a hearing were qualified as to standing. Under the source materials licensing procedures of the NRC, hearings are accomplished as informal legal presentations. As of March 1, 1999, intervenors have presented briefs covering nine areas of contention within the license. The administrative law judge has ruled on four of the contentions and has found in favor of the Company in each of his decisions. The judge was directed by the Commission to complete the hearing process by the end of June 1999. Although all the decisions to date have been favorable to the Company, there can be no assurance that the license will be maintained in its current form; allowing the Company to proceed with its planned operations or that the NRC process will be concluded on a timely basis.
UIC Permit. NMED has jurisdiction under the New Mexico Water Quality Act to regulate UIC activities within the State of New Mexico, and the New Mexico UIC program has received "primary enforcement responsibility" from the EPA under the federal SDWA. However, by the terms of regulations issued by the EPA and the primacy determination made for the State of New Mexico, New Mexico's UIC primacy does not extend to New Mexico's exercise of UIC regulation or permitting over facilities located on "Indian lands," a term whose geographic reach the EPA has defined as coextensive with that of "Indian country". Because even a permit issued by a state holding UIC primacy cannot suffice in lieu of a federal UIC permit issued under the SDWA unless the EPA issued a corresponding aquifer exemption or temporary aquifer designation, the EPA's opinion that a site lies within Indian country virtually compels a state UIC applicant to secure an EPA UIC permit for UIC activities to be conducted on such a site.
In addition to the EPA's assertions, the Navajo Nation claims regulatory jurisdiction over a significant portion of the Company's New Mexico development properties. These claims subject the development of those properties within the area claimed as "Indian country" to further uncertainties, including a potential for delays in UIC permitting. For certain properties not permitted by the EPA at the time a Navajo regulatory program is promulgated and accepted by the EPA for a determination of primacy, the Company would then apply to the Navajo EPA for its UIC permits. Although a Navajo UIC program may adopt unique application, permitting, and enforcement procedures, it would, nonetheless, be required to impose virtually the same substantive requirements as the Company is prepared to satisfy under existing New Mexico and EPA UIC programs.
This dispute over UIC jurisdiction is currently focused on a portion of the Churchrock and Crownpoint properties. Despite this current jurisdictional dispute among the EPA, the State of New Mexico, and the Navajo Nation, the Company maintains good relations with the State of New Mexico, the Navajo Nation, and the EPA. However, there can be no assurance that the jurisdictional dispute will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's development plans in New Mexico.
In February 1998, the United States Supreme Court in Alaska v. Native Village of Venetie Tribal Government interpreted the terms "Indian country" and "dependent Indian Communities". Such interpretation stated that "Indian country" includes "all dependent Indian communities within the United States" and that such lands refer to a specific category of Indian lands that are not reservation nor allotted lands. Such lands must meet the following two criteria; (i) they must have been set aside by the Federal Government for the use of Indians as Indian land; and (ii) they must be under federal superintendence. On the basis of this ruling the Company believes that its private fee lands and federal claims positions in New Mexico may fall under the jurisdiction of the State of New Mexico for regulatory purposes.
Water Rights. For general information on water rights in New Mexico, see "Business-Environmental Considerations and Permitting; Water Rights."
CHURCHROCK DISTRICT
The Property. The Churchrock properties encompass 2,225 gross and net acres and include mineral leases, patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. The properties are located in McKinley County, New Mexico, and consist of three parcels, known as Section 8, Section 17 and Mancos. None of these parcels lies within the area generally recognized as constituting the Navajo Reservation. The Company owns the mineral estate in fee for both Sections 17 and the Mancos properties. The surface estate on Section 17 is owned by the U.S. Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation. The Company owns patented and unpatented mining claims on Section 8. The Company is obligated to pay certain royalties based on uranium sales. The unpatented claims currently require an annual payment of $100 per claim payable to the Bureau of Land Management to remain in full force and effect and are subject to certain overrides. On March 25, 1997, the Company acquired from Santa Fe, the fee mineral interests in Section 17 and Mancos thereby acquiring the position owned by the lessor and extinguished certain of the royalty obligations on those properties.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1998, Section 8 contained approximately 6.5 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 4.2 million pounds recoverable), Section 17 contained approximately 8.4 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 5.5 million pounds recoverable), and the Mancos property contained approximately 4.2 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.7 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed in accordance with the licenses issued by the NRC. It is anticipated that the first property to be licensed and developed will be Churchrock. Costs related to permitting activities and land holding costs were approximately $1.0 million in 1998. The Company does not anticipate significant spending for permitting and land holding costs in 1999. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with production activities which it expects to meet by posting a bond collateralized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Exploration Potential. The measured in-place reserves in Sections 8 and 17 and Mancos encompass only a small portion of the properties owned by the Company. The Company believes that substantial additional mineralization exists on these properties. Because of greater depths, this mineralization is estimated to be recoverable at a higher cost and accordingly require higher uranium prices to make them economical to produce.
Water Rights. The Company originally acquired mineral leases on Sections 8 and 17 from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC") and, in connection therewith, acquired certain rights to use water from UNC. An application to use one of these rights has been the subject of extensive administrative proceedings and litigation with the New Mexico State Engineer and the Navajo Nation over the nature and extent of UNC's water rights. The State Engineer determined that the consumptive use and diversion amount UNC originally sought to transfer for use by the Company were in excess of the rights held by UNC and denied the application on the grounds that the UNC rights were insufficient to support the Company's mining operations. The Company has since reapplied and revised its water budget to be consistent with the rights of UNC as determined by the State Engineer. The State Engineer conducted a hearing in March 1998 regarding the application for the transfer of the water rights. A claim by the Navajo Nation to jurisdiction over these water rights was denied by the State Engineer's hearing officer and in the prior proceeding, the state district court. These decisions do not preclude a contrary claim from being made in another proceeding. No decision on the water right has been made as of February 28, 1999.
Permitting Status. On June 21, 1989 the EPA issued its aquifer exemption covering that portion of the Churchrock site known as Section 8, and on November 1, 1989, NMED issued its permit, covering UIC activities on Section 8. On October 7, 1994, NMED issued an amended permit covering UIC activities on both Section 8 and Section 17. The permit for Section 17 was contested by the Navajo Nation which claimed UIC regulatory jurisdiction over the site, based on the fact that the surface estate is owned by the Navajo Nation. The EPA, acting as an advocate for the Navajo Nation, has asserted the Navajo Nation's claim and has refused to amend its previously issued aquifer exemption covering Section 8 to add the portion of the Churchrock facility on Section 17. The Navajo Nation has asserted jurisdiction over Section 8 as being a "dependent Indian community". The EPA has informed the Company that the regulatory jurisdiction of the property is considered to be in "dispute" and would require an EPA-issued permit prior to the commencement of mining. The Company does not plan to pursue permits for Mancos at this time.
In June 1996, the Company filed with the NMED two applications to renew the permit in two distinct parts, one covering the Section 8 portion and the other the Section 17 portion of Churchrock. This was to assure that the Company maintained a "clear" UIC authorization on the Section 8 portion of the site. The surface estate on Section 8 is not owned by the Navajo Nation or Navajo allottees. Because the renewal application was timely filed, the permit covering the Section 8 property has remained continuously in effect pending final determination on the renewal application by the NMED. The Navajo Nation has asserted jurisdiction over the UIC for Section 8, claiming that the land lies within a "dependent Indian community." While the EPA has not yet taken a final position on this issue, they have determined that a dispute does exist between the NMED and the Navajo tribe. As a result of this dispute, the EPA has indicated that an EPA permit will be required on this property. This situation could potentially delay or obstruct development of Section 8. The State of New Mexico and the Company have appealed the action of the EPA to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Oral arguments were presented to
the Court on January 21, 1999. A decision by the Court is pending. The outcome of this suit may ultimately affect UIC jurisdiction on all Indian lands.
CROWNPOINT DISTRICT
The Property. The Crownpoint properties are located in the San Juan Basin, 22 miles northeast of the Company's Churchrock deposits and 35 miles northeast of Gallup, New Mexico, adjacent to the town of Crownpoint. The Properties consist of 1,578 gross and net acres, as follows:
(a) 162 gross and net acres on Section 24. The Company has 100% of the mineral estate on this acreage pursuant to a combination of a 40% fee interest, a mineral lease on the other 60% of the mineral estate unpatented mining claims. This acreage is subject to an obligation of the Company to pay a production payment on the first 50,000 pounds of uranium produced and an override based on uranium sales;
(b) 959 gross and net acres on Sections 19 and 29 pursuant to a lease from private mineral owners (expiring August 2007) which provides for royalties and an override based on uranium sales; and
(c) 457 gross and net acres of unpatented mining claims in Sections 9, 24 and 25.
In addition to the foregoing, the Company has 1,440 gross and net acres of mineral leases (hereinafter referred to as "Unit 1") from Navajo allottees who are the beneficial owners of the surface and mineral rights. The leases are subject to approval by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the "BIA"). The BIA Area Director is expected to approve the leases after completion of the license. These leases expire 10 years after the approval by the BIA.
Reserves. With respect to all the Crownpoint acreage except Unit 1, as of December 31, 1998, the property contained approximately 39.0 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 25.3 million pounds recoverable). The Company estimates that Unit 1 contains approximately 27.0 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 17.6 million pounds recoverable). The Unit 1 reserves are not included as part of the Company's reserve base.
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed according to the license conditions issued by the NRC. Under the license, the first operating property will be Churchrock followed by Unit 1 and Crownpoint. Costs relating to permitting activities and land holding costs for Crownpoint were $876,000 in 1998, and are not expected to be significant in 1999.
Water Rights. With respect to Crownpoint, the Company has acquired three applications for appropriations of water which give the Company the first three "positions in line" on the hearings list for the San Juan Basin. Certain aspects of all three applications were protested and are subject to hearings. Water rights relating to Unit 1 may likely involve the claim of the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation, and this jurisdictional issue might also be present for other parts of Crownpoint. The Company plans to proceed with water rights for Crownpoint at a future date.
Permitting Status. The NRC license is part of the overall development plan for both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts discussed above. The Company has recently submitted a revised UIC permit application for Section 24. There can be no assurance that the UIC permit will be granted. The surface estate on Section 19 and 29 is owned by the U.S. Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation and may be subject to the same jurisdictional dispute as for Section 17 in Churchrock.
SANTA FE PROPERTIES
GENERAL
In March 1997 the Company acquired from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium in New Mexico.
The Properties. The properties consist of: (a) 37,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired a fee interest in the entire mineral estate, excluding coal ("Category I Properties"); (b) approximately 140,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the fee interest in uranium (the "Category II Properties"); and (c) approximately 346,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the exclusive right to explore for uranium and other minerals excluding coal (the "Category III Properties").
The Company is obligated to spend on exploration $200,000 per year for the ten-year period starting in March 1997 and $400,000 per year for the seven-year period starting in March 2007. This expenditure can be made on any of the Category II or Category III properties.
The license is for 17 years, expiring in March 2014. In the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $25 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $5 million; and in the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $30 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $10 million.
With respect to Category II and Category III properties, at such time as URI shall apply for a mining permit with respect to any such properties Santa Fe has the right to put the remaining mineral interests owned by it (excluding coal) to the Company at a price of $200 per acre for any acreage in any section which is covered by the mining application. The acreage price shall be increased by the same percentage as the percentage increase in the price of uranium on the date of such application over $15.80 per pound. URI has the option to purchase at any time the entire mineral estates (excluding coal) on such properties on the same terms.
Reserves. The Company estimates that the Category I Properties contain 14.7 million pounds of proven in-place uranium reserves (estimated 9.6 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The planned development strategy is to integrate qualified properties from the Santa Fe lands into the production plans for Churchrock and Crownpoint.
Exploration Potential. There is significant exploration potential for the Santa Fe properties. Numerous ore grade holes drilled on the properties demonstrates this potential; however, because the deposits are not delineated, development costs are uncertain.
RECLAIMED PROPERTIES
The Company has completed production and groundwater restoration on its Benavides and Longoria projects in South Texas. The Company is currently completing the final stages of surface reclamation on these projects which the Company believes will not involve material expenditures.
On August 28, 1995, Manuel T. Longoria, as owner of the ranch containing the site of the Company's Longoria mine, brought suit against the Company in state district court in Duval County, Texas, asserting claims said to have arisen at various times over the last eighteen years. See "Business-Legal Proceedings."
The Company acquired the Section 17 leases in the New Mexico Churchrock district from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC"). UNC had conducted underground mining for uranium on Section 17 and had reclaimed these properties. In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed any liability of UNC for any remaining remediation work that might be required. NMED has not determined what, if any, additional remediation will be required under the New Mexico Mining Act. If more remediation work is required, the Company believes it will not involve material expenditures.
RECLAMATION AND RESTORATION COSTS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS
Upon completion of production from a wellfield, the Company is obligated under state and federal law to restore the aquifer to a condition consistent with its pre-mining use. This involves restoration of the aquifer, plugging and abandoning the injection and production wells and reclaiming the surface. With respect to operations at Kingsville Dome and Rosita, as well as reclamation and restoration of the Benavides and Longoria projects, the TNRCC and TDH requires the Company to provide financial surety to cover the costs of such restoration and reclamation. The surety bond requirement at December 31, 1998 was approximately $6.2 million. The Company fulfills this requirement through the issuance of surety bonds from the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G") and has deposited as collateral for such bonds cash of approximately $3.6 million. The Company is obligated to fund the cash collateral account with an additional $0.50 for each pound of uranium production until the account accumulates an additional $1.0 million. The Company estimates that its future reclamation liabilities with respect to current operations at December 31, 1998 approximates $5.2 million, which has been charged to earnings. These financial surety obligations are reviewed and revised annually by the TNRCC and TDH.
The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety of approximately $1.0 million as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the mining of the Vasquez project. The Company anticipates that USF&G or other bonding entities will provide the requisite bond under arrangements similar to those in place for Rosita and Kingsville Dome.
In New Mexico surety bonding will be required prior to development of the properties. The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the Churchrock project which it anticipates will be provided by USF&G, or other bonding entities under arrangements similar to those in place for Rosita and Kingsville Dome. The amount of the surety bond will be subject to annual review and revision by the NRC and State of New Mexico.
ITEM 3.