ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
PROCESSING FACILITIES
Kingsville Dome
Our Kingsville Dome property is located in Kleberg County and is situated on several tracts of land leased from third parties. The property is situated approximately eight miles southeast of the city of Kingsville, Texas. The project was constructed in 1987 as an up-flow uranium extraction circuit, with complete drying and packaging facilities within the recovery plant. The Kingsville Dome project produced uranium in the period 1988 through 1990, from 1996 to 1999, and most recently from 2007 through 2009. Two independent resin processing circuits and elution systems are part of the plant’s processing equipment, and it also has a single drying circuit. As currently configured, the Kingsville Dome plant has a production capacity of 800,000 pounds of U3O8 per year.
Uranium production at Kingsville Dome was shut down in 2009 and the plant has been in a standby status since that time. The plant has two 500 gallon per minute reverse osmosis systems for groundwater restoration. The first unit was idled in 2010 and the second unit was idled in January of 2014, when ground water restoration was completed. The plant can serve as a processing facility that can accept resin from multiple satellite facilities. In addition to the processing plant there are four satellite ion exchange systems in the project area. Each of the satellite systems is capable of processing 900 gallons per minute of uranium-bearing ISR fluids from well fields, and these satellite plants can be relocated to alternate extraction sites as needed. As is the case with the main plant, the satellite facilities have been on standby since 2009.
Rosita
Our Rosita uranium processing plant and associated well fields is located in Duval County, Texas on a 200 acre tract of land owned by the Company. The facility is located within the South Texas uranium province, about 22 miles west of the town of Alice. The plant was constructed in 1990, and was originally designed to operate as an up-flow extraction facility, in a similar manner to our Kingsville Dome plant. Resin was processed at the Rosita plant, and the recovered uranium was precipitated into a slurry, which was then transported to Kingsville Dome for final drying and packaging. Production from the Rosita plant began in 1990 and continued until 1999, when it was placed on standby. In the 2007-2008 period upgrades were made to the processing equipment and additions to the facility were installed, including revisions to the elution and precipitation circuits, and the addition of a full drying system. Construction terminated when the plant was 95% complete, due to production and price declines. We anticipate that the plant will have an operating capacity of 800,000 pounds of U3O8 per year when the upgrades have been completed. We are in the process of evaluating a relocation of our Rosita uranium processing plant to the Temrezli project in Turkey.
One satellite ion exchange system is in place at the Rosita project, but only operated for a short period of time in 2008. Loaded resin from the Rosita satellite unit was shipped to Kingsville Dome for processing.
Vasquez
The Vasquez uranium project is located in Duval County, Texas, a short distance northwest of the town of Hebbronville. The project is situated on a leased tract of land that is being held until final groundwater restoration has been completed. The Vasquez ISR mine was constructed in 2004. Uranium recovered from wellfields at the Vasquez project was partially processed through a satellite ion exchange system, capable of processing 1,200 gallons per minute, and with final uranium recovery was undertaken at the Kingsville Dome plant. In addition to the satellite recovery facility, there is a 500 gallon per minute reverse osmosis system that has been utilized in our groundwater restoration efforts, which were completed in January, 2014. Uranium recovery efforts at the Vasquez project took place between 2004 and 2008.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Temrezli Project, Yozgat Province, Republic of Turkey
The Property. We acquired the Temrezli uranium project as a result of the Merger. We control six licenses that make up the project area that were granted to our Turkey-based subsidiary Adur Madencilik Ltd. Sti. (“Adur”) by the Turkish General Directorate of Mining Affairs. The granted licenses cover an area of approximately 13,490 acres. We hold these licenses through the payment of fees to the Turkish government and the fulfillment of certain physical work obligations on an annual basis. Four of the licenses are classed as “Operating Licenses”, and a change in status to “Operating License” status is pending for the remaining two licenses. Uranium production from the licenses is subject to the payment of a sliding-scale royalty, ranging from 2% to 16% depending upon the sales price of uranium, as defined by Turkish mining law. The sliding-scale royalty payments are to be made to certain agencies of the local and Turkish governments. A further 1% royalty is payable to the General Directorate of Mining Affairs, who discovered the Temrezli uranium deposit.
Accessibility. The Temrezli uranium project is situated in the Central Anatolia Region, Sorgun District of the Yozgat Province, Republic of Turkey. The project is situated near the center of the country, approximately 150 miles east-southeast of the national capital of Ankara. The project area is located about 10 miles south of the city of Sorgun and 45 miles southeast of the provincial capital of Yozgat.
Well maintained all-weather public highways connect Ankara with the provincial capital of Yozgat and the nearby city of Sorgun. Access to the project area from Sorgun to the general project area is provided by all-weather paved roads. A maintained dirt road connects the nearby villages of Akoluk and Mehmetbeyli and crosses the north-central part of the Temrezli project. Several unimproved dirt tracks and farm trails provide access to other parts of the project area, but these roads may become impassable for short periods of time during heavy precipitation.
Suitable sources of electrical power and water are available within the Temrezli property, and various sources of goods and services, as well as labor are readily available in the city of Sorgun, which is approximately 10 miles north of the project.
Project Activities. Anatolia Energy, and its subsidiary Adur, have conducted an extensive program of diamond core and rotary drilling, as well as comprehensive environmental and cultural resources surveys and a wide range of metallurgical testing on uranium mineralization that was originally discovered by an agency of the Turkish government in the 1980s.
Since acquiring the Temrezli project we have continued the various environmental and hydrological studies required for submission of operating permit applications and undertaking further metallurgical tests. We have carried out detailed studies of the quantity and quality of the uranium mineralization at the Temrezli deposit and are preparing a detailed economic and operational assessment of the project. The focus of these studies is upon the potential development of the Temrezli project as a future ISR uranium mine.
Project Geology. Uranium at the Temrezli project occurs as a series of generally flat lying to gently dipping tabular mineralized bodies that are hosed in medium to coarse-grained nearshore marine sandstones at depths ranging from less than 200 feet to approximately 600 feet beneath the surface. Individual mineralized zones range from a few 100s to about 1,000 feet in length, several 10s to a 100 feet in width, and about 3 to approximately 30 feet in thickness. The mineralized zones are 100 feet or more beneath the local water table.
Permitting Status. We hold permits for exploration and development drilling on the property and hydrological testing of the mineralized zones. We have collected a comprehensive suite of environmental and cultural resource data for the project area, and its immediate vicinity, to serve as the basis for the application of an Environmental Impact Assessment, which, in turn would lead to the issuance of a mine operating permit.
Şefaatli Project, Yozgat Province, Republic of Turkey
The Property. The property was acquired by URI as a result of the completion of the Anatolia Transaction on November 9, 2015. URI, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Adur, holds three exploration licenses (with License Numbers: 201100582, 201100583 and 200810035) in the project area. These licenses cover an area of approximately 25,113 acres. Two of the licenses are in advanced exploration license status. One license is on a pending operation license status.
Accessibility.The Sefaatli project is located in the town of Şefaatli district in Yozgat Province in central Turkey. The project area is located about six miles from city of Şefaatli and 20 miles southwest of the provincial capital of Yozgat.
Well maintained all-weather public highways connect Ankara with the provincial capital of Yozgat and the nearby city of Şefaatli. Access to the properties from Şefaatli is provided by all-weather village roads. These roads may become impassable for short periods of time during heavy precipitation.
Project Activities. Sefaatli project is first discovered by the Uranium Division of the General Directorate of Mineral Research & Exploration (MTA) of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in late 80’s. MTA conducted over 15,000 metres drilling during their work. The mineralized zones were discovered but the lateral extents of these zones were not identified at that time. Since that time no work was done until the property rights were transferred to Adur in 2008 and 2011. Adur completed 117 exploration and resource drill holes with a total of 11,951.80m. Adur is planning additional drilling in the property to define the resource boundaries.
Project Geology. The basement rock in the property consists of Cretaceous aged granite which is overlaid by uranium containing Eocene aged shallow marine sediments. Pliocene limestone is locally covering Eocene units. All these units are overlaid by Quaternary alluvium. Granitic intrusions are considered to be the source of the uranium. Uranium bearing lenses are formed in oxidation reduction boundaries of Eocene aged fine to coarse grained sandstone after uranium was washed and transported by ground and meteoric water.
Permitting Status. URI holds permits for exploration and development drilling on the property of the mineralized zones.
SOUTH TEXAS PROPERTIES AND EXPLORATION PROJECTS
We currently control three production properties and five exploration projects in the state of Texas, all of which are located in the South Texas uranium province, an arcuate belt of sandstone-hosted uranium deposits that extends from near the Texas-Mexico border on the south to an area southeast of the city of San Antonio on the northeast. The belt parallels the present-day coast of the Gulf of Mexico, and is approximately 160 miles long and up to 35 miles in width. The Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez properties are owned by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, URI, Inc. and the Butler Ranch and Sejita Dome exploration projects are owned by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Uranco, Inc. The locations of the Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez production properties are shown in the above map, and they are described below.
From 1988 to 1999 we produced approximately 6.1 million pounds of U3O8 from the Kingsville Dome and Rosita projects, and from 2004 to 2009, Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez produced an additional 1.4 million pounds of U3O8.
Kingsville Dome Project, Kleberg County, Texas:
The Property. The Kingsville Dome project is located in central Kleberg County, South Texas, approximately 35 miles southwest of the city of Corpus Christi and eight miles southeast of the town of Kingsville. The project is comprised of numerous mineral leases from private landowners, covering an area of approximately 2,434 gross and 2,227 net acres of mineral rights. The leases are held through the payment of annual rents, and the leases provide for the payment of production royalties, ranging from 6.25% to 9.375%, based upon uranium sales from the respective leases. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2000 to 2007, however we continue to hold most of these leases through our ongoing restoration activities. With a few minor exceptions, the leases contain clauses that permit us to extend the leases not held by production by payment of royalties ranging from $10 to $30 per acre.
Accessibility. Access to the Kingsville Dome process facility is very good, as an improved company-owned private road connects with Texas Farm to Market Road 1118 about eight miles southeast of Kingsville, Texas, and about four miles east of U.S. Highway 77 at the town of Ricardo. Numerous county and ranch roads, some of which are only intermittently maintained, provide access to the entire project area.
Suitable electrical power is present at the site of the Kingsville Dome process plant, and additional power lines throughout the areas of the wellfields throughout the project area.
History. Initial production from the Kingsville Dome uranium deposit commenced in May 1988. From the onset of production until July, 1999 we produced a total of 3.5 million pounds of U3O8 from the project area. Production was suspended in July, 1999, due to depressed uranium prices, but it resumed in April, 2006. Production in 2006 was 94,100 pounds of U3O8, 338,100 pounds in 2007, 252,000 pounds in 2008 and 56,000 pounds in 2009. We have not produced any uranium at the Kingsville Dome project since 2009. The Kingsville Dome project currently contains immaterial reserves that have yet to be produced.
Project Geology: Uranium mineralization at the Kingsville Dome project occurs as roll-front deposits hosted in porous and permeable sandstones of the Goliad Formation, at depths ranging from 600 to 750 feet beneath the surface. The mineralization is localized along the southwestern to northern flanks of the Kingsville Dome geological feature, which also hosts oil and gas deposits in geological units that are situated well below the Goliad Formation sandstones. We do not control those oil and gas deposits.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Company completed the groundwater restoration program during 2013 and entered the required stabilization period. As a result, the Company did not incur any costs related to restoration and reclamation activities during 2014 and 2015.
There are three Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”) authorized production areas at the Kingsville Dome project. In 2012, restoration was completed within ten wellfields located in production areas 1 and 2. In 2013, URI, Inc. continued to sample and observe the wellfields in production areas 1 and 2 during a stabilization period required by TCEQ rules, and on October 15, 2013 we declared to TCEQ that groundwater restoration was complete in production areas 1 and 2. Groundwater restoration for production area 3 was conducted throughout 2013, completed in December 2013 and simultaneously placed into stability. Subject to regulatory approval, groundwater restoration is completed for the entire project. Since we began our groundwater activities in 1998, we have processed and cleaned approximately 2.6 billion gallons of groundwater at the Kingsville Dome project.
Permitting Status. A radioactive material license issued by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) is in timely renewal. On September 26, 2012, we filed the requisite application for renewal of our underground injection control permit, and on December 12, 2012, we filed an amendment to the application that would provide for resumption of uranium recovery activities. The permit is in renewal and in the contested case hearing process. As new areas are proposed for production, additional authorizations under the area permit would be required.
Rosita Project, Duval County, Texas
The Property. The Rosita project is located in north-central Duval County Texas, about 14 miles southeast of the town of Freer and 60 miles west-northwest of the city of Corpus Christi. Our property holdings consist of mineral leases from private landowners covering approximately 3,377 gross and net acres of mineral rights. The nearby Rosita South property (also known as the Cadena area) consists of mineral leases from private land owners on approximately 1,795 gross and 1,479 net acres. All of the leases for the Rosita and Rosita South areas provide for payment of sliding scale royalties that are based upon the price of uranium, ranging from 6.25% to18.25% of uranium sales produced from the leased lands. Under the terms of the leases the lands can be held after the expiration of their primary term and secondary terms, as long as we are carrying out restoration and reclamation activities. The leases have primary and secondary terms ranging from 2012 to 2015, and provisions to extend the leases beyond the initial terms. We hold these leases by payment of annual property rental fees ranging from $10 to $30 per acre.
Accessibility. Access to the Rosita project and process facility is good, from an improved company-owned private drive that connects with an unpaved but maintained county road, which in turn connects with to Texas Farm to Market Road 3196, about one mile northeast of the intersection of State Highway 44 and FM 3196 in Duval County.
Electrical power for the Rosita project is readily available, with an industrial-scale power line extending to the Rosita process plant.
History. Initial production of uranium from the Rosita project, utilizing the in-situ recovery (ISR) process, commenced in 1990, and continued until July 1999. During that time we produced 2.64 million pounds of U3O8. Production was halted in July of 1999 due to depressed uranium prices, and resumed in June 2008 Technical difficulties, coupled with a sharp decline in uranium prices led to the decision to suspend production activities in October, 2008, after the production of 10,200 pounds of U3O8. We have had no production from the Rosita project since that time.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at the Rosita project occurs as roll-fronts hosted in porous and permeable sandstones of the Goliad Formation, at depths ranging from 125 to 350 feet below the surface.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Rosita project is comprised of four TCEQ authorized production areas. Production areas 1 and 2 are depleted, and groundwater restoration has been completed to regulatory standards. Production areas 3 and 4 contain immaterial uranium reserves that have yet to be produced. Production areas 1 and 2 consist of seven wellfields whose groundwater has been restored by the circulation and processing of approximately 1.3 billion gallons of reverse osmosis treated water. In 2013 we completed the final phase of TCEQ required stabilization in production areas 1 and 2. The Company began plugging wells in production areas 1 and 2 in 2014 and completed those activities in 2015. Results from the completed well plugging and abandonment activities have been submitted to the TCEQ for their review and final approval. During 2015, the Company incurred costs relating to the plugging and abandonment and standby of the aforementioned production areas of approximately $534,000. Surface reclamation is now underway and is expected to continue through 2016.
Permitting Status. A radioactive material license issued by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) for the Rosita project is in timely renewal. On August 30, 2012, we filed the requisite application for renewal of our underground injection control permit and it was issued on October 20, 2014. Production could resume in areas already included in existing production area authorizations. As new areas are proposed for production, additional authorizations from the TCEQ under the permit will be required.
Vasquez Project, Duval County, Texas
The Property. Our Vasquez project is located in southwestern Duval County, Texas, about seven miles north-northwest of the town of Hebbronville and 100 miles southwest of Corpus Christi. The property consists of a mineral lease on 872 gross and net acres. While the primary term of the mineral lease expired in February 2008, we continue to hold the lease by carrying out restoration activities. We pay an annual rental fee to the property owner, and the lease provides for the payment of a sliding-scale production royalty of 6.25% of uranium sales below $25.00 per pound, increasing to 10.25% for uranium sales occurring at or above $40.00 per pound of U3O8.
Accessibility. Access to the Vasquez project area is good from a Company-owned and improved private drive to an improved ranch road that connects to Texas State Highway 59, a short distance northwest of Hebbronville.
Adequate electrical power is available in the project area, with a power line extending onto the property to service our facilities at the Vasquez project.
History. We commenced production from the Vasquez project in October 2004, but we have had no production from the project since 2008.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at the Vasquez project occurs as roll-fronts within porous and permeable sandstones the Oakville Formation, at depths ranging from 200 to 250 feet below the surface.
Restoration and Reclamation. We conducted restoration and reclamation activities at the Vasquez project through 2013, and since 2014 we have been the project has been in the required groundwater stabilization period. As a result, the Company did not incur significant costs for restoration activities during 2015.
The Vasquez project consists of two authorized production areas. Production area 1 consists of five wellfields and production area 2 consists of two wellfields. At the end of 2013, groundwater restoration was completed at all wellfields in all production areas. In 2014, both production areas were placed into stability and remained in this status for all of 2015. Subject to regulatory approval, groundwater restoration has been completed for the entire project. Since the commencement of groundwater restoration activities at the end of 2007, we have treated approximately 640 million gallons of groundwater at the Vasquez project.
Permitting Status. A radioactive material license issued by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) is in timely renewal. On July 10, 2012 we filed the requisite application for renewal of our underground injection control permit. On September 23, 2014 the renewal was issued by the TCEQ.
Butler Ranch Project, Karnes County, Texas
The Property. We acquired the Butler Ranch project from Rio Grande Resources in 2014, as part of a larger property exchange with them. Our property is comprised of nine fee leases that cover an area of about 2,653 gross or 2,592 net acres of mineral rights. We can hold the leases by payment of annual rental fees, ranging from $10 to $25 per acre. Each of the leases makes provision for the payment of royalties of 10% of sales to the property owners. Leases have initial terms of 8 to 10 years and have provisions to “hold by drilling” and identifying uranium mineralization on the specific properties.
Accessibility. The Butler Ranch project is located in the southwestern end of Karnes County, Texas, about 45 miles southeast of the city of San Antonio, and 12 miles northwest of the town of Kenedy. Numerous paved state and federal highways are present within close proximity of the project area, and maintained farm and oilfield access roads cross all parts of the project.
Numerous electrical lines, many of which are of industrial grade to service oil and gas production facilities, are present throughout the area of the project.
History. The project is situated in the southwestern end of the Karnes County uranium mining district, which was one of the largest uranium production areas in Texas. Numerous open pit mines were developed and operated in the area, including important production operations by Conoco, Susquehanna-Western, Pioneer Nuclear, and Chevron Resources. The historic uranium activities focused upon deposits that were situated above the water table, and the mineralization recovered from the open pit mines was processed in conventional mills owned and operated by Conoco, Susquehanna-Western, Pioneer Nuclear and Chevron Resources.
There has not been any uranium production from the Company’s properties.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at Butler Ranch occurs primarily in the form of roll-front deposits hosted mostly in sandstones of the Jackson Group, including the Deweesville and Stones Switch units. Some mineralization in the area occurs as tabular bodies associated with lignite (carbonaceous material) or in somewhat permeable units in the Conquista Clay as well.
Historical mining activities in the project area focused upon deposits that were positioned above the water table, while our targets are situated below the water table and may be suitable for in-situ recovery methods.
Project Activities. We carried out a short exploration drilling program on one lease in the project area in late February and early March 2015. The exploration program was comprised of five conventional rotary drill holes that totaled 1,620 feet, and was designed to test for extensions of an adjoining zone of uranium mineralization. All five of our drill holes encountered indications of uranium mineralization, requiring further study.
In 2015, we acquired a substantial amount of historical exploration drilling information and other geological data for our properties in the Butler Ranch area. Detailed technical studies of this information are being carried out, and this new information is being combined with other data that we hold in order to further evaluate the potential of the Butler Ranch project.
Permitting Status. We received an exploration drilling permit for the Butler Ranch project in February 2015 from the Texas Railroad Commission.
Sejita Dome Project, Duval County, Texas
The Property. Our Sejita Dome project is located in southern Duval County, Texas, about 18 miles east of the town of Hebbronville and approximately 90 miles southwest of the city of Corpus Christi. We acquired the project in 2014 as part of a property exchange with Rio Grande Resources. The project area is comprised of 15 partly contiguous fee (private) mineral leases covering an area of 3,263 gross or 2,176 net acres. The leases are held through the payment of annual rental fees ranging from $10 to $75 per acre. Uranium production from the leased lands is subject to the payment of fixed-rate or sliding scale royalties that range from 4.5% to 20% of sales price.
Accessibility. The project area is comprised of gently rolling countryside, much of which has been cleared of brush and trees for grazing and farming purposes. Accessibility to the overall project area is good, via Texas highway 285, and several paved or maintained gravel roads that traverse project lands.
Power lines are present along the public roads in the project area, and electrical lines are present to service some oil wells within several of our leases.
History. Although situated near the eastern end of the South Duval uranium belt, there has never been any uranium production from the Sejita Dome project area. Several companies, including Elf-Aquitaine, Texasgulf, Coastal States and others carried out exploration drilling programs on lands in the general project area during the 1970s and early 1980s. Several mineralized zones were identified from this historical exploration drilling.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at our Sejita Dome exploration project occurs as roll-front style mineralization in sandstone units of the Goliad Formation. Mineralized areas, as identified from historical data, occur along the flanks of Sejita Dome, a geologic feature that has similarities to our Kingsville Dome project.
Project Activities. We have not carried out any exploration work on the Sejita Dome project.
Permitting Status. We do not hold any permits for either exploration drilling or uranium production from the Sejita Dome project.
NEW MEXICO PROJECTS
General
We hold a significant portfolio of properties throughout the extent of the Grants mineral belt of west-central New Mexico (see the above map). Included within our New Mexico property portfolio are fee surface and mineral rights that we own, fee surface and mineral rights leased from third parties, State of New Mexico mining leases, and owned patented and unpatented lode mining claims. Collectively, this property position represents one of the largest mineral rights holdings in the Grants mineral belt.
The Grants mineral belt is an approximately 100 mile long northwesterly trending belt of sandstone-hosted uranium deposits that historically have been the largest source of uranium production in the United States. During the period of mining activity in the Grants mineral belt, generally between the early 1950’s and the mid-1980’s, more than eighty underground and open pit mines were developed and operated by several mining companies. At various times during the productive life of the Grants mineral belt, six uranium processing mills were built and operated by The Anaconda Company, Homestake Mining Company, Kerr-McGee, Phillips Petroleum, Sohio Western and United Nuclear.
Cebolleta Project
General. Our Cebolleta project is located in west-central New Mexico, approximately 45 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque. It is situated in the Laguna mining district, an area that has seen considerable uranium mining activity since the 1950s.
The Property. In March 2007, Neutron Energy, Inc. (“Neutron”) (then operating as Cibola Resources LLC, or “Cibola”, both of which are now wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company) entered into the Cebolleta Lease with La Merced del Pueblo de Cebolleta (the “Cebolleta Land Grant”), a privately held land grant, to lease the Cebolleta property, which is composed of approximately 6,717 acres of fee (deeded) surface and mineral rights. The lease was affirmed by the New Mexico District Court in Cibola County in April 2007. The Cebolleta Lease provides for: (i) a term of ten years and so long thereafter as Cibola is conducting operations on the Cebolleta property; (ii) initial payments to the Cebolleta Land Grant of $5,000,000; (iii) a recoverable reserve payment equal to $1.00 multiplied by the number of pounds of recoverable uranium reserves upon completion of a feasibility study to be completed within six years, less (a) the $5,000,000 referred to in (ii) above, and (b) not more than $1,500,000 in annual advance royalties previously paid pursuant to (iv); (iv) annual advanced royalty payments of $500,000; (v) gross proceeds royalties ranging from 4.50% to 8.00% based on the then current price of uranium; (vi) employment opportunities and job-skills training for the members of the Cebolleta Land Grant and (vii) funding of annual higher education scholarships for the members of the Cebolleta Land Grant. The Cebolleta Lease provides us with the right to explore for, mine, and process uranium deposits present on the Cebolleta Property. In February 2012, Cibola entered into an Amendment of its Mining Lease Agreement (the “Cebolleta Lease Amendment”) amending the Cebolleta Lease, subject to approval of the Thirteenth Judicial District. Pursuant to the Cebolleta Lease Amendment, the date for the completion of the feasibility study was extended from April 2013 to April 2015. In addition, the date has been further extended subject to a reduction in the $6,500,000 initial payment and annual advance royalty payments deductions to the recoverable reserve payment.
Accessibility. The Cebolleta project is situated in the eastern-most portion of Cibola County, New Mexico. It is located approximately 45 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque, and about 10 miles north of the town of Laguna. A major transcontinental highway (US Interstate Highway I-40) traverses the region about 12 miles south of the project and a well-maintained State of New Mexico paved highway, New Mexico State Highway 279 connects I-40 at the village of Laguna with the settlement of Seboyeta, which is located approximately four miles northwest of the project. An all-weather graded gravel road and several private roads of varying quality cross the project lands and provide access to nearly all parts of the project area. During periods of precipitation access to the immediate project area on the unmaintained private roads may be hindered due to muddy ground conditions, but these events are normally of short duration.
One power line is present at the north end of the project area, and a major high voltage electrical transmission line and sub-station are present approximately five miles northeast of the main part of the project area.
History. Parts of the Cebolleta project were developed as open pit and underground mines, and uranium was produced from the project area during the 1960s, through the early 1980s. Initial production was attained from a small underground mine in the St. Anthony area developed by Climax Uranium in the 1950s. The project was revitalized in the mid-1960s after various leases were acquired by United Nuclear, who also conducted an extensive exploration program on the property, and subsequently developed two open pit and one underground mine on the southern part of the project area. United Nuclear ceased uranium production from their holdings in the project area in 1979.
Sohio Western Mining and Reserve Oil and Minerals carried out an extensive exploration drilling program on lands that comprise the northern part of the current Cibola project area, and subsequently discovered five discrete uranium deposits. Sohio developed one underground mine, and constructed a uranium processing mill on a nearby parcel of land the early to mid-1970s. Sohio operated the mine and mill complex until it was shut down in 1981. There has been no uranium production from the property since 1981.
Project Geology. The Cebolleta project is the site for six sandstone-hosted uranium deposits that occur as discrete flat-lying tabular bodies of uranium mineralization that are hosted within the Jackpile sandstone unit of the Jurassic-age Morrison Formation. The mineralized bodies are contained within channels in the Jackpile sandstone, and are found at depths ranging from approximately 250 to 850 feet below the surface. The deposits are situated above the local and regional water tables.
Development Plan. The Company completed a Technical Report for the Cebolleta project in April 2014. Based on the quantity and quality of the mineral resource, the Technical Report recommends that we advance the Cebolleta Project to a Preliminary Economic Assessment or scoping level study. The Cebolleta Technical Report recommended proceeding with the next step of “confirmation drilling” with the objective of raising the confidence levels of a significant portion of the mineral resources. Another recommendation in the Technical Report was to drill and develop an initial resource model and mineral resource estimate for the historic St. Anthony mine area. Under our current cash conservation measures and business priorities, we are not contemplating any current work at Cebolleta.
Permitting Status. The Company holds a Sub-part 4 Exploration Permit (CI014ER-R3), issued by the Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department of the State of New Mexico for drilling at the Cebolleta project.
Churchrock Project, McKinley County, New Mexico
General. The Churchrock project is situated at the western-most extent of the Grants mineral belt in McKinley County, western New Mexico. The project lands are located approximately 13 miles northeast of the town of Gallup and 110 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque. The project covers much of the southern portion of the Church Rock mining district, where numerous companies carried out extensive exploration programs in the 1950s through the 1970s. The Church Rock district was the site of several large-scale underground uranium mines that were developed between the late 1950s and the 1970s and operated primarily by Kerr-McGee and United Nuclear. There are no active mining operations in the Church Rock district at this time. Additionally, United Nuclear constructed and operated a uranium processing mill north of our properties, but that facility is no longer in operation. We have entered into an agreement to sell the Churchrock project. Please see “Recent Corporate Development - Laramide Asset Sale” under “Item 1. Business” for additional information.
Access to the project area is good. New Mexico State Highway 566, which is a paved two lane highway that crosses the eastern part of the project area, connects with US Interstate Highway I-40 at the village of Church Rock, approximately six miles to the south of our properties. Several maintained and unmaintained paved and dirt roads and trails connect with Highway 566 and traverse much of the project area. The Navajo Nation has challenged the right of the Company to access Section 8 of the Churchrock project by crossing certain Nation trust lands (please see Item 3: