ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
SOUTH TEXAS PRODUCING PROPERTIES
The Company has two properties located in South Texas, Rosita and Kingsville Dome. These properties have had recent production, one of which (Kingsville Dome) would be capable of resuming production given improved market conditions and available funding. The following is a description of these properties.
KINGSVILLE DOME
The Property. The Kingsville Dome property consists of mineral leases from private landowners (and a small portion owned in fee) on 3,068 gross (3,043 net) acres located in central Kleberg County, Texas. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2000 to 2007. With a few minor exceptions, all the leases contain shut-in royalty clauses which permit the Company to extend the leases not held by production by payment of a royalty.
Production History. Initial production commenced in May 1988. In May 1989, due to the continuing decline in the spot price of uranium, the Company deferred development of the next wellfield, and the plant was shut-in in September 1990. Total production from May 1988 through September 1990 was approximately 1.5 million pounds.
Wellfield development activities resumed in December 1995, and production commenced in March 1996. Production at Kingsville Dome was approximately 2.0 million pounds from recommencement of production in March 1996 through July 1999 with 61,000 pounds produced in 1999.
The Company shut-in and placed on stand-by production at the Kingsville Dome site in the first quarter of 1999 because of depressed uranium market conditions. Nominal production from this site continued until July 1999 when the incremental production costs at this facility exceeded the cost of purchasing uranium in the marketplace.
Further Development Potential. Further exploration and development activities are not currently planned and are not anticipated until uranium market conditions firm. The Company believes that there is a significant quantity of uranium resource remaining at the Kingsville Dome site that would be mined if market conditions were favorable and sufficient funding for delineation and development were available. The Company spent approximately $137,000 in capital expenditures in 1999 and does not project to make significant expenditures in 2000.
Permitting Status. Radioactive material licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits were issued. In the first quarter of 2000 the District Court of Travis County Texas ruled that the decision of the TNRCC to grant the Company's PAA#3 without granting a hearing to certain intervenors in the case would require further review by the TNRCC. The District Court remanded the issue back to the TNRCC for further action which has the effect of placing the Company's PAA#3 on hold from future production pending a decision by the TNRCC. The Company anticipates a favorable outcome in this matter. With regard to future production areas certain minor amendments to the license and permit for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended.
Restoration and Reclamation. Restoration of groundwater was conducted during 1999 and is expected to continue in 2000.
ROSITA
The Property. The Rosita property consists of mineral leases on 3,359 gross and net acres located in northeastern Duval County, Texas. All the leases, except minor leases, are held by production. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales.
Production History. The Company began initial production at Rosita in October 1990. Total production from Rosita for the eighteen months through March 31, 1992 was approximately 1.1 million pounds. In March 1992, due to depressed uranium prices, the Company shut-in production.
Wellfield development activities resumed at Rosita in March 1995 and production recommenced in June 1995. From that date through July 1999 approximately 1.6 million pounds were produced with 48,000 pounds produced in 1999.
The Company shut-in and placed on stand-by production at the Rosita site in the first quarter of 1999 because of depressed uranium market conditions. Nominal production from this site continued until July 1999 when the incremental production costs at this facility exceeded the cost of purchasing uranium in the marketplace.
Further Development Potential. The Company estimates that there are approximately 261,000 recoverable pounds of uranium remaining to be produced from the Rosita project. The timing of production from this property will be dependent upon future uranium prices, the availability of sales contracts and the availability of capital. The Company spent approximately $77,000 for development activities, permitting and land holding costs in 1999. Significant expenditures for these activities are not expected in 2000.
Permitting Status. Radioactive materials licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Company conducted groundwater restoration in 1999 and expects to continue these activities in 2000.
SOUTH TEXAS DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
VASQUEZ
The Property. The property consists of two mineral leases on 842 gross and net acres located in southwestern Duval County, Texas.
The secondary lease term for this property expired in February 2000. URI tendered payment under the shut-in royalty clause of the lease and also holds its rights to the property through continuous development clauses in the lease. The lessor returned the Company's shut-in royalty payments without disclosing their reasons for rejecting the Company's payment. The Company believes that it will continue to hold its rights to the property under either the shut-in royalty or the continuing development clauses of the lease. The leases provide for royalties based on uranium sales.
Reserves. The Company estimates that the property contained approximately 2.8 million pounds of recoverable reserves at December 31, 1999.
Development Plan. The timing of production will be dependent on a number of factors. Prior to the commencement of production at Vasquez the Company will require new capital inflows of approximately $2.5 million for construction, development and financial surety needs.
Permitting Status. All of the required permits for this property have been received from the TNRCC and the TDH.
NEW MEXICO DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company has various interests in properties located in the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts in New Mexico. As to these properties, the Company holds both patented and unpatented mining claims, mineral leases and some surface leases from private parties, the Navajo Nation and Navajo allottees. In addition, in March 1997, the Company acquired from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium on significant acreage in New Mexico, a small portion of which falls within the Churchrock district.
In keeping with its overall corporate strategy, the Company's development plan for its New Mexico properties will proceed incrementally, subject to timely permitting, the availability of water rights, the availability of sales contracts and the availability of capital. The Company plans to develop the Churchrock district first and the Crownpoint district next.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
NRC License. In New Mexico, uranium production requires a radioactive materials license issued by the NRC. The Company has applied for one NRC license covering all properties located in both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts (except the Mancos property) and has included the properties in both districts (except the Mancos leases) under one Final Environmental Impact Statement ("FEIS"), which is a prerequisite for the NRC license.
The NRC finalized and completed the publication of the FEIS in the first quarter of 1997. The NRC issued an operating license in January 1998 that would allow operations to begin in the Churchrock district. In mid-1998, the NRC determined that certain Churchrock and Crownpoint residents who requested a hearing were qualified as to standing. Under the source materials licensing procedures of the NRC, a hearing covering the license was conducted during 1999. The administrative law judge has ruled on all of the contentions and upheld the license. Subsequently, the ruling by the administrative law judge was appealed to the full NRC. Although all the decisions to date have been favorable to the Company, there can be no assurance that the license will be maintained in its current form allowing the Company to proceed with its planned operations, or that the NRC process will be concluded on a timely basis.
UIC Permit. NMED has jurisdiction under the New Mexico Water Quality Act to regulate UIC activities within the State of New Mexico, and the New Mexico UIC program has received "primary enforcement responsibility" from the EPA under the federal SDWA. However, by the terms of regulations issued by the EPA and the primacy determination made for the State of New Mexico, New Mexico's UIC primacy does not extend to New Mexico's exercise of UIC regulation or permitting over facilities located on "Indian lands," a term whose geographic reach the EPA has defined as coextensive with that of "Indian country". Because even a permit issued by a state holding UIC primacy cannot suffice in lieu of a federal UIC permit issued under the SDWA unless the EPA issued a corresponding aquifer exemption or temporary aquifer designation, the EPA's opinion that a site lies within Indian country virtually compels a state UIC applicant to secure an EPA UIC permit for UIC activities to be conducted on such a site.
In addition to the EPA's assertions, the Navajo Nation claims regulatory jurisdiction over a significant portion of the Company's New Mexico development properties. These claims subject the development of those properties within the area claimed as "Indian country" to further uncertainties, including a potential for delays in UIC permitting. For certain properties not permitted by the EPA at the time a Navajo regulatory program is promulgated and accepted by the EPA for a determination of primacy, the Company would then apply to the Navajo EPA for its UIC permits. Although a Navajo UIC program may adopt unique application, permitting, and enforcement procedures, it would, nonetheless, be required to impose virtually the same substantive requirements that the Company is prepared to satisfy under existing New Mexico and EPA UIC programs.
This dispute over UIC jurisdiction is currently focused on a portion of the Churchrock and Crownpoint properties. Despite this current jurisdictional dispute among the EPA, the State of New Mexico, and the Navajo Nation, the Company maintains good relations with the State of New Mexico, the Navajo Nation, and the EPA. However, there can be no assurance that the jurisdictional dispute will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's development plans in New Mexico.
Water Rights. For general information on water rights in New Mexico, see "Business-Environmental Considerations and Permitting; Water Rights."
CHURCHROCK DISTRICT
The Property. The Churchrock properties encompass 2,225 gross and net acres and include mineral leases, patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. The properties are located in McKinley County, New Mexico, and consist of three parcels, known as Section 8, Section 17 and Mancos. None of these parcels lies within the area generally recognized as constituting the Navajo Reservation. The
Company owns the mineral estate in fee for both Sections 17 and the Mancos properties. The surface estate on Section 17 is owned by the U.S. Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation. The Company owns patented and unpatented mining claims on Section 8.
Resources. The Company estimates that as of December 31, 1999, Section 8 contained approximately 4.2 million pounds of recoverable uranium resources. Section 17 contained approximately 5.5 million pounds of recoverable resources and the Mancos property contained approximately 2.7 million pounds of recoverable resources.
Development Plan. It is anticipated that the first property to be developed will be Churchrock. Costs related to permitting activities and land holding costs were approximately $666,000 in 1999. The Company does not anticipate significant spending for permitting and land holding costs in 2000. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with production activities.
Water Rights. The Company originally acquired mineral leases on Sections 8 and 17 from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC") and, in connection therewith, acquired certain rights to use water from UNC. An application to use one of these rights was the subject of extensive administrative proceedings and litigation with the New Mexico State Engineer and the Navajo Nation over the nature and extent of UNC's water rights. The State Engineer approved HRI's water rights application in October 1999 and granted it sufficient water rights for the life of the Churchrock mine.
Permitting Status. On June 21, 1989 the EPA issued its aquifer exemption covering that portion of the Churchrock site known as Section 8, and on November 1, 1989, NMED issued its permit, covering UIC activities on Section 8. On October 7, 1994, NMED issued an amended permit covering UIC activities on both Section 8 and Section 17. The permit for Section 17 was contested by the Navajo Nation which claimed UIC regulatory jurisdiction over the site, based on the fact that the surface estate is owned by the Navajo Nation. The EPA, acting as an advocate for the Navajo Nation, has asserted the Navajo Nation's claim and has refused to amend its previously issued aquifer exemption covering Section 8 to add the portion of the Churchrock facility on Section 17. The Navajo Nation has asserted jurisdiction over Section 8 as being a "dependent Indian community". The EPA has informed the Company that the regulatory jurisdiction of the property is considered to be in "dispute" and would require an EPA-issued permit prior to the commencement of mining. The Company does not plan to pursue permits for Mancos at this time.
In June 1996, the Company filed with the NMED two applications to renew the permit in two distinct parts, one covering the Section 8 portion and the other the Section 17 portion of Churchrock. This was to assure that the Company maintained a "clear" UIC authorization on the Section 8 portion of the site. The surface estate on Section 8 is not owned by the Navajo Nation or Navajo allottees. Because the renewal application was timely filed, the permit covering the Section 8 property has remained continuously in effect pending final determination on the renewal application by the NMED.
The Navajo Nation has asserted jurisdiction over the UIC for Section 8, claiming that the land lies within a "dependent Indian community." While the EPA has not yet taken a final position on this issue, they have determined that a dispute does exist between the NMED and the Navajo tribe. As a result of this dispute, the EPA has indicated that an EPA permit will be required on this property. The State of New Mexico and the Company appealed the action of the EPA to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The Tenth Circuit in January 2000, determined that EPA had jurisdiction and remanded the matter back to EPA for further evaluation. The Company cannot predict the impact of this decision and there can be no assurance that EPA will reissue a UIC permit in its current form or on a timely basis. This situation could potentially delay or obstruct development of Section 8.
CROWNPOINT DISTRICT
The Property. The Crownpoint properties are located in the San Juan Basin, 22 miles northeast of the Company's Churchrock deposits and 35 miles northeast of Gallup, New Mexico, adjacent to the town of Crownpoint. The Properties consist of 1,578 gross and net acres, as follows:
(a) 162 gross and net acres on Section 24. The Company has 100% of the mineral estate on this acreage pursuant to a combination of a 40% fee interest, a mineral lease on the other 60% of the mineral estate unpatented mining claims. This acreage is subject to an obligation of the Company to pay a production payment on the first 50,000 pounds of uranium produced and an override based on uranium sales;
(b) 959 gross and net acres on Sections 19 and 29 pursuant to a lease from private mineral owners (expiring August 2007) which provides for royalties and an override based on uranium sales; and
(c) 457 gross and net acres of unpatented mining claims in Sections 9, 24 and 25.
Resources. With respect to all the Crownpoint acreage, the Company estimates as of December 31, 1999, the property contained approximately 25.3 million pounds of recoverable resources.
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed according to the license conditions issued by the NRC. Under the license, the first operating property will be Churchrock followed by Crownpoint. Costs relating to permitting activities and land holding costs for Crownpoint were $874,000 in 1999, and are not expected to be significant in 2000.
Water Rights. With respect to Crownpoint, the Company has acquired three applications for appropriations of water which give the Company the first three "positions in line" on the hearings list for the San Juan Basin. Certain aspects of all three applications were protested and are subject to hearings. Water rights relating to Unit 1 may likely involve the claim of the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation, and this jurisdictional issue might also be present for other parts of Crownpoint. The Company plans to proceed with water rights for Crownpoint at a future date.
Permitting Status. The NRC license is part of the overall development plan for both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts discussed above. The Company has recently submitted a revised UIC permit application for Section 24. There can be no assurance that the UIC permit will be granted. The surface estate on Section 19 and 29 is owned by the U.S. Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation and may be subject to the same jurisdictional dispute as for Section 17 in Churchrock.
Unit I Property. In addition to the foregoing, at December 31 1999 the Company had 1,440 gross and net acres of mineral leases on nine separate parcels (hereinafter referred to as "Unit 1") from Navajo allottees who are the beneficial owners of the surface and mineral rights. The leases have been and are subject to approval by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the "BIA"). Such approval had not been received at December 31, 1999 and as a result, the Company reviewed each of the nine agreements to determine those that have been executed by all the necessary parties to finalize each agreement. Three of the agreements have received the required signatures from the allottees to complete the leases. The remaining six require additional efforts to complete the leasing process. As a result of this review, the Company has requested that the BIA return those funds that have been held in escrow related to those six leases that require further completion. This request was made and the Company received funds totaling approximately $440,000 in the first quarter of 2000 related to these leases.
SANTA FE PROPERTIES
GENERAL
In March 1997 the Company acquired from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium in New Mexico.
The Properties. The properties consist of: (a) 37,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired a fee interest in the entire mineral estate, excluding coal ("Category I Properties"); (b) approximately 140,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the fee interest in uranium (the "Category II Properties"); and (c) approximately 346,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the exclusive right to explore for uranium and other minerals excluding coal (the "Category III Properties").
The Company is obligated to spend on exploration $200,000 per year for the ten-year period starting in March 1997 and $400,000 per year for the seven-year period starting in March 2007. This expenditure can be made on any of the Category II or Category III properties.
The license is for 17 years, expiring in March 2014. In the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $25 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $5 million; and in the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $30 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $10 million.
With respect to Category II and Category III properties, at such time as URI shall apply for a mining permit with respect to any such properties Santa Fe has the right to put the remaining mineral interests owned by it (excluding coal) to the Company at a price of $200 per acre for any acreage in any section which is covered by the mining application. The acreage price shall be increased by the same percentage as the percentage increase in the price of uranium on the date of such application over $15.80 per pound. URI has the option to purchase at any time the entire mineral estates (excluding coal) on such properties on the same terms.
Resources. The Company estimates that the Category I Properties contain 9.6 million pounds of recoverable resources.
Development Plan. The planned development strategy is to integrate qualified properties from the Santa Fe lands into the production plans for Churchrock and Crownpoint.
Exploration Potential. There is significant exploration potential for the Santa Fe properties. Numerous ore grade holes drilled on the properties demonstrates this potential; however, because the deposits are not delineated, development costs are uncertain.
RECLAIMED PROPERTIES
The Company has completed production and groundwater restoration on its Benavides and Longoria projects in South Texas. The Company completed the final stages of surface reclamation on these projects and received full and final release for these sites in 1999.
The Company acquired the Section 17 leases in the New Mexico Churchrock district from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC"). UNC had conducted underground mining for uranium on Section 17 and had reclaimed these properties. In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed any liability of UNC for any remaining remediation work that might be required. NMED has not determined what, if any,
additional remediation will be required under the New Mexico Mining Act. If more remediation work is required, the Company believes it will not involve material expenditures.
RECLAMATION AND RESTORATION COSTS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS
Upon completion of production from a wellfield, the Company is obligated under state and federal law to restore the aquifer to a condition consistent with its pre-mining use. This involves restoration of the aquifer, plugging and abandoning the injection and production wells and reclaiming the surface. With respect to operations at Kingsville Dome and Rosita the TNRCC and TDH requires the Company to provide financial surety to cover the costs of such restoration and reclamation. The surety bond requirement at December 31, 1999 was approximately $6.2 million. The Company fulfills this requirement through the issuance of surety bonds from the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G") and has deposited as collateral for such bonds cash of approximately $3.6 million. The Company is obligated to fund the cash collateral account with an additional $0.50 for each pound of uranium production until the account accumulates an additional $1.0 million. The Company estimates that its future reclamation liabilities with respect to current operations at December 31, 1999 approximates $5.1 million, which has been charged to earnings. These financial surety obligations are reviewed and revised annually by the TNRCC and TDH.
The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety of approximately $1.0 million as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the mining of the Vasquez project.
In New Mexico surety bonding will be required prior to development of the properties. The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the Churchrock project. The amount of the surety bond will be subject to annual review and revision by the NRC and State of New Mexico.
ITEM 3.