ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
PROCESSING FACILITIES
Kingsville Dome
Our Kingsville Dome property is located in Kleberg County and is on a leased tract of land approximately eight miles southeast of Kingsville, Texas. The project was constructed in 1987 as an up-flow uranium extraction circuit, with complete drying and packaging facilities within the recovery plant. Kingsville Dome produced from 1988 through 1990, from 1996 to 1999 and most recently from 2007 through 2009. Two independent resin processing trains and elution systems are part of the plant’s processing equipment, and it also has a single drying circuit. As currently configured, the Kingsville Dome plant has a production capacity of 800,000 pounds of U3O8 per year.
Production at Kingsville Dome was shut down in 2009 and the plant has been in a standby status since that time. The plant has two 500 gallon per minute reverse osmosis systems for groundwater restoration. The first unit was idled in 2010 and the second unit was idled in January of 2014, when ground water restoration was completed. The plant can serve as a processing facility that can accept resin from multiple satellite facilities.
In addition to the processing plant there are also four satellite ion exchange systems in the project area. Each of the satellite systems is capable of processing 900 gallons per minute of ISR fluids from well fields, and these satellite plants can be relocated to alternate extraction sites as needed. As is the case with the main plant, the satellite facilities have been on standby since 2009.
Rosita
Our Rosita uranium processing plant is located in Duval County, on a 200 acre tract of land owned by the Company. The facility is located in south Texas, about 22 miles west of the town of Alice. The plant was constructed in 1990, and was originally designed to operate as an up-flow extraction facility, in a similar manner to our Kingsville Dome plant. Resin was processed at the Rosita plant, and the recovered uranium was precipitated into a slurry, which was then transported to Kingsville Dome for final drying and packaging. Production through the Rosita plant began in 1990 and continued until 1999, when it was placed on standby. In 2007-2008 upgrades were made to the processing equipment and additions to the facility were installed, including revisions to the elution and precipitation circuits and the addition of a full drying system. Construction terminated when the plant was 95% complete, due to production and price declines. We anticipate that the plant will have an operating capacity of 800,000 pounds of U3O8 per year.
One satellite ion exchange system is in place at the Rosita project, but only operated for a short period of time in 2008. Loaded resin from the Rosita satellite unit was shipped to Kingsville Dome for processing.
Vasquez
The Vasquez uranium project is located in Duval County, a short distance northwest of the town of Hebbronville on a leased tract of land that is being held until final restoration is complete. The Vasquez ISR mine was constructed in 2004. Uranium recovered from wellfields at the Vasquez project was partially processed through a satellite ion exchange system, capable of 1,200 gallons per minute extraction, and final uranium recovery was undertaken at the Kingsville Dome plant. In addition to the satellite recovery equipment, there is a 500 gallon per minute reverse osmosis system that has been utilized in our groundwater restoration efforts, which were completed in January, 2014. Uranium recovery efforts at the Vasquez project took place between 2004 and 2008.
SOUTH TEXAS PROPERTIES AND EXPLORATION PROJECTS (Figure 2.1)
We currently control three production properties and five exploration projects in the state of Texas, all of which are located in the South Texas uranium province, an arcuate belt of uranium deposits that extends from near the Texas-Mexico border on the south to an area southeast of the city of San Antonio on the northeast. The belt parallels the present-day coast of the Gulf of Mexico, and is approximately 160 miles long and up to 35 miles in width. The Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez properties are owned by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, URI, Inc. and the Alta Mesa Este, Butler Ranch and Sejita Dome exploration projects are owned by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Uranco, Inc. The Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez production properties are shown in Figure No. 2.1 and are described below.
From 1988 to 1999 we produced approximately 6.1 million pounds of uranium from the Kingsville Dome and Rosita uranium deposits, and from 2004 to 2009, Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez produced an additional 1.4 million pounds of U3O8.
Kingsville Dome Project, Kleberg County, Texas (Figure 2.2):
The Property. The Kingsville Dome project is located in central Kleberg County, South Texas, approximately 35 miles southwest of the city of Corpus Christi and eight miles southeast of the town of Kingsville. The property consists of mineral leases from private landowners covering approximately 2,434 gross and 2,227 net acres of mineral rights. The leases are held through the payment of annual rents, and the leases provide for the payment of production royalties, ranging from 6.25% to 9.375%, based upon uranium sales from the respective leases. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2000 to 2007, however we continue to hold most of these leases through our ongoing restoration activities. With a few minor exceptions, the leases contain clauses that permit us to extend the leases not held by production by payment of a royalty ranging from $10 to $30 per acre.
Suitable electrical power is present at the site of the Kingsville Dome process plant, and additional power lines throughout the areas of the wellfields throughout the project area.
Accessibility. Access to the Kingsville Dome process facility is very good from an improved company-owned private road that connects with Texas Farm to Market Road 1118 about eight miles southeast of Kingsville, Texas, and about four miles east of U.S. Highway 77 at the town of Ricardo. Numerous county and ranch roads, some of which are only intermittently maintained, provide access to all of the project area.
History. Initial production from the Kingsville Dome uranium deposit commenced in May 1988. From the onset of production until July, 1999 we produced a total of 3.5 million pounds of U3O8. Production was suspended in July, 1999 due to depressed uranium prices, but resumed in April, 2006. Production in 2006 was 94,100 pounds of U3O8, 338,100 pounds in 2007, 252,000 pounds in 2008 and 56,000 pounds in 2009. The Kingsville Dome Project currently contains immaterial reserves that have yet to be produced. We have not produced any uranium at the Kingsville Dome project since 2009.
Project Geology: Uranium mineralization at the Kingsville Dome project occurs as roll-fronts hosted in porous and permeable sandstones of the Goliad Formation at depths ranging from 600 to 750 feet below the surface. Uranium mineralization at the project is localized along the southwestern to northern flanks of the Kingsville Dome geological feature, which also hosts oil and gas deposits in geological units that are situated well below the Goliad Formation sandstones. We do not control such oil and gas deposits.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Company completed the groundwater restoration program during 2013 and entered the required stabilization period. As a result, the Company did not incur any costs related to restoration and reclamation activities during 2014. During 2013 we conducted restoration activities on the Kingsville Dome project, as required by our permits and licenses, spending approximately $1.0 million on restoration activities.
There are three Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”) authorized production areas at the Kingsville Dome project. In 2012, restoration was completed within ten wellfields located in production areas 1 and 2. In 2013, URI, Inc. continued to sample and observe the wellfields in production areas 1 and 2 during a stabilization period required by TCEQ rules, and on October 15, 2013 we declared to TCEQ that groundwater restoration was complete in production areas 1 and 2. Groundwater restoration for production area 3 was conducted throughout 2013, completed in December 2013 and simultaneously placed into stability. Subject to regulatory approval, groundwater restoration is completed for the entire project. Since we began our groundwater activities in 1998, we have processed and cleaned approximately 2.6 billion gallons of groundwater at the Kingsville Dome project.
Permitting Status. A radioactive material license issued by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) is in timely renewal. On September 26, 2012, we filed the requisite application for renewal of our underground injection control permit, and on December 12, 2012, we filed an amendment to the application that would provide for resumption of uranium recovery activities. As new areas are proposed for production, additional authorizations under the area permit would be required.
Rosita Project, Duval County, Texas (Figure 2.3)
The Property. The Rosita project is located in north-central Duval County Texas, about 14 miles southeast of the town of Freer and 60 miles west-northwest of the city of Corpus Christi. Our property holdings consist of mineral leases from private landowners covering approximately 3,377 gross and net acres of mineral rights. The nearby Rosita South property (also known as the Cadena area) consists of mineral leases from private land owners on approximately 1,795 gross and 1,479 net acres. The leases provide for payment of sliding scale royalties that are based upon the price of uranium and range from 6.25% to18.25% of uranium sales produced from the leased lands. Under the terms of the leases lands can be held after the expiration of their primary term through restoration and reclamation activities. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2015, and we hold these leases by payment of annual property rental fees ranging from $10 to $30 per acre.
Accessibility. Access to the Rosita project and process facility is good, from an improved company-owned private drive that connects with an unpaved but maintained county road, which in turn connects with to Texas Farm to Market Road 3196 about one mile northeast of the intersection of State Highway 44 and FM 3196 in Duval County.
Electrical power for the Rosita project is readily available, with an industrial-scale power line extending to the Rosita process plant.
History. Initial production of uranium from the Rosita project, utilizing the ISR process, commenced in 1990, and continued until July 1999. During that time we produced 2.64 million pounds of U3O8. Production was halted in July of 1999 due to depressed uranium prices, and resumed in June 2008 Technical difficulties coupled with a sharp decline in uranium prices led to the decision to terminate activities in October 2008, after the production of 10,200 pounds of U3O8. We have had no production from the Rosita project since that time.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at the Rosita project occurs as roll-fronts hosted in porous and permeable sandstones of the Goliad Formation, at depths ranging from 125 to 350 feet below the surface.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Rosita project is comprised of four TCEQ authorized production areas. Production areas 1 and 2 are depleted, and groundwater restoration has been completed to regulatory standards. Production areas 3 and 4 contain limited uranium reserves that have yet to be produced. Production areas 1 and 2 consist of seven wellfields whose groundwater has been restored by the circulation and processing of approximately 1.3 billion gallons of reverse osmosis treated water. In 2013 we completed the final phase of TCEQ required stabilization in production areas 1 and 2. The Company began plugging wells in production areas 1 and 2 in 2014 and expects to complete these activities in 2015. During 2014, the Company incurred costs relating to the plugging and abandonment of the aforementioned production areas of approximately $463,000
Permitting Status. A radioactive material license issued by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) is in timely renewal. On August 30, 2012, we filed the requisite application for renewal of our underground injection control permit and was issued on October 20, 2014. Production could resume in areas already included in existing production area authorizations. As new areas are proposed for production, additional authorizations under the permit will be required.
Vasquez Project, Duval County, Texas (Figure 2.4)
The Property. Our Vasquez project is located in southwestern Duval County, Texas, about seven miles north-northwest of the town of Hebbronville and 100 miles southwest of Corpus Christi. The property consists of a mineral lease on 872 gross and net acres. While the primary term of the mineral lease expired in February 2008, we continue to hold the lease by production and restoration. We pay an annual rental fee to the property owner, and the lease provides for the payment of a sliding-scale production royalty of 6.25% of uranium sales below $25.00 per pound, increasing to 10.25% for uranium sales occurring at or above $40.00 per pound of U3O8.
Accessibility. Access to the Vasquez project area is good from a Company-owned and improved private drive to an improved ranch road to Texas State Highway 59 northwest of Hebbronville.
Adequate electrical power is available in the project area, with a power line extending onto the property to service our facilities at the Vasquez project.
History. We commenced production from the Vasquez project in October 2004, but we have had no production from the Vasquez project since 2008.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at the Vasquez project occurs as roll-fronts within porous and permeable sandstones the Oakville Formation, at depths ranging from 200 to 250 feet below the surface.
Restoration and Reclamation. We conducted restoration and reclamation activities at the Vasquez project through 2013 and as of 2014 are in the required stabilization period. As a result, the Company did not have a significant outlay of cash related to restoration activities during 2014. We spent approximately $625,000 in 2013 for such activities.
The Vasquez project consists of two authorized production areas. Production area 1 consists of five wellfields. Production area 2 consists of two wellfields. At the end of 2013, restoration was completed at all wellfields in production areas 1 and 2. In 2014, both production areas have been placed into stability. Subject to regulatory approval, groundwater restoration is completed for the entire project. Since the commencement of groundwater restoration activities at the end of 2007, we have treated approximately 640 million gallons of groundwater at the Vasquez project.
Permitting Status. A radioactive material license issued by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) is in timely renewal. On July 10, 2012 we filed the requisite application for renewal of our underground injection control permit. On September 23, 2014, the renewal was issued by the TCEQ.
Alta Mesa Este Exploration Project, Brooks County, Texas (Figure 2.5)
The Property. Our Alta Mesa Este exploration project was acquired by the Company in late 2014 as part of an exchange of property interests with Rio Grande Resources. Our property holdings in the project area include six leases covering approximately 2,916 gross, or 2,841 net acres of mineral rights. The leases are held through the payment of annual rental fees, which range from $20 to $50 per acre. Any production derived from the properties would be subject to the payment of production royalties of 10% of the gross sales. All of our leases are within a single contiguous block of land.
Accessibility. Our Alta Mesa Este project is located in central Brooks County, Texas, about 110 miles southwest of Corpus Christi and 60 miles north of McAllen.
Access to the immediate project area is via a maintained service road for numerous oil and gas wells and a nearby uranium mine. This access road connects with Texas Farm to Market Road 755 (a paved highway) about four miles south of the project area.
There are numerous industrial grade electric lines in the area that provide service to oil and natural gas facilities and the nearby Alta Mesa mine and processing plant of Mestena Uranium.
History. While there has not been any uranium production from our properties, a portion of the lands were drilled by Chevron Resources, and later Total Petroleum, as part of a regional exploration program that resulted in the discovery of the nearby Alta Mesa mine.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at our Alta Mesa Este exploration project occurs as roll-fronts within sandstones of the Goliad Formation. Historical exploration drilling carried out primarily by Chevron Resources partially outlined a zone of mineralization that has a length of about 1.5 miles and is present at a depth of about 450 to 525 feet below the surface. From the data that is available to us it appears that the mineralization on our properties may be part of a larger, more regional system that includes the nearby Alta Mesa mine. Uranium mineralization at the Alta Mesa mine is also hosted in the Goliad Formation.
Permitting Status. We received an exploration drilling permit for the Alta Mesa Este project in February 2015 from the Texas Railroad Commission.
Butler Ranch Exploration Project, Karnes County, Texas (Figure 2.6)
The Property. We acquired the Butler Ranch uranium exploration project from Rio Grande Resources in 2014, as part of a larger property exchange with them. Our property is comprised of nine fee leases that cover an area of about 2,653 gross or 2,592 net acres of mineral rights. We can hold the leases by payment of annual rental fees, ranging from $10 to $25 per acre. Each of the leases makes provision for the payment of royalties of 10% of sales to the property owners. Leases have initial terms of 8 to 10 years and have provisions to “hold by drilling” and identifying uranium mineralization on the specific properties.
Accessibility. The Butler Ranch project is located in the southwestern end of Karnes County, Texas, about 45 miles southeast of the city of San Antonio, and 12 miles northwest of the town of Kenedy. Numerous paved state and federal highways are present within close proximity of the project area, and maintained farm and oilfield access roads cross all parts of the project.
Numerous electrical lines, many of which are of industrial grade to service oil and gas production facilities are present throughout the area of the project.
History. The project is situated in the western end of the Karnes County uranium mining district, which was one of the largest uranium production areas in Texas. Numerous open pit mines were developed and operated in the area, including important production operations by Conoco, Susquehanna-Western, Pioneer Nuclear, and Chevron Resources. The historic uranium activities focused upon deposits that were situated above the water table, and the mineralization recovered from the open pit mines was processed in conventional mills owned and operated by Conoco, Susquehanna-Western, Pioneer Nuclear and Chevron Resources.
There has not been any uranium production from these properties.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at Butler Ranch occurs primarily in the form of roll-front deposits hosted mostly in sandstones of the Jackson Group, including the Deweesville and Stones Switch units. Some mineralization in the area occurs as tabular bodies associated with lignite (carbonaceous material) or in somewhat permeable units in the Conquista Clay as well.
Historical mining activities in the project area focused upon deposits that were positioned above the water table, while our targets are situated below the water table and may be suitable for in-situ recovery methods.
Permitting Status. We received an exploration drilling permit for the Butler Ranch project in February 2015 from the Texas Railroad Commission.
Sejita Dome Exploration Project, Duval County, Texas (Figure 2.7)
The Property. Our Sejita Dome exploration project is located in southern Duval County, Texas, about 18 miles east of the town of Hebbronville and approximately 90 miles southwest of Corpus Christi. We obtained the project as part of a property exchange with Rio Grande Resources in 2014. The project area is comprised of fifteen partly contiguous fee (private) mineral leases covering an area of 3,263 gross or 2,176 net acres. The leases are held through the payment of annual rental fees ranging from $10 to $75 per acre. Uranium production from the leased lands is subject to the payment of fixed-rate or sliding scale royalties that range from 4.5% to 20% of sales price.
Accessibility. The project area is comprised of gently rolling countryside, much of which has been cleared of brush and trees for grazing and farming purposes. Accessibility to the overall project area is good, via Texas highway 285, and several paved or maintained gravel roads that traverse project lands.
Power lines are present along the public roads in the project area, and electrical lines are present to service some oil wells within several of our leases.
History. Although situated near the eastern end of the South Duval uranium belt, there has never been any uranium production from the Sejita Dome project area. Several companies, including Elf-Aquitaine, Texasgulf, Coastal States and others carried out exploration drilling programs on lands in the general project area during the 1970s and early 1980s and several identified zones of uranium mineralization in the area.
Project Geology. Uranium mineralization at our Sejita Dome exploration project occurs as roll-front style mineralization in sandstone units of the Goliad Formation. Mineralized areas, as identified from historical data, occur along the flanks of Sejita Dome, a geologic feature that has similarities to our Kingsville Dome project.
Permitting Status. We do not hold any permits for either exploration drilling or uranium production from the Sejita Dome project.
NEW MEXICO PROJECTS (Figure 2.8)
General
We hold a significant portfolio of properties throughout the extent of the Grants mineral belt of west-central New Mexico (see Figure 2.8 below). Included within our New Mexico property portfolio are fee surface and mineral rights that we own, unpatented lode mining claims leased from a third party, fee surface and mineral rights leased from third parties and owned patented and unpatented lode mining claims. Collectively, this property position represents one of the largest mineral rights holdings in the Grants mineral belt.
The Grants mineral belt is an approximately 100 mile long northwesterly trending belt of sandstone-hosted uranium deposits that historically have been the largest source of uranium production in the United States. During the period of mining activity in the Grants mineral belt, generally between the early 1950’s and the mid-1980’s, more than eighty underground and open pit mines were developed and operated by several mining companies. At various times during the productive life of the Grants mineral belt, as many as six uranium processing mills were built and operated by The Anaconda Company, Homestake Mining Company, Kerr-McGee, Phillips Petroleum, Sohio Western and United Nuclear.
To date we have expended approximately $15.1 million on permitting and associated activities and studies relating to permitting efforts on our New Mexico properties. Additional expenditures, at a level that we are not yet able to estimate, but could be material, will be required in order to advance our various projects in this area. Future expenditures could be material, and will be incurred over a period of several years.
Ambrosia Lake Project (Figure 2.9)
General. Our Ambrosia Lake project is situated in the east-central part of the Grants mineral belt of west-central New Mexico, about 20 miles north of the town of Grants and approximately 63 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque. Our properties lie within the Ambrosia Lake mining district, which historically was the largest and most significant uranium mining area in the United States.
Numerous mining companies discovered, developed and operated underground uranium mines on and adjoining our properties, including Homestake Mining Company, Kerr-McGee Nuclear, Phillips Petroleum, and United Nuclear Corporation. Production commenced in the mid-1950s and continued into the early 1980s. There are no operating uranium mines in the Ambrosia Lake area at this time, and many of the former operating properties have been reclaimed and restored.
The Property. We own or lease mineral rights covering an area of approximately 24,655 acres, including about 705 acres of unpatented lode mining claims leased from a third party, and 23,949 acres of fee minerals that are owned by the Company. We do not own any surface rights within the project area.
The mining claims at our Ambrosia Lake project are part of a larger lease that also includes claims at the nearby Roca Honda property. Lease provisions included an initial payment of $315,000 on signing of the lease, payments of $100,000 in February 2007 and February 2008 (all of which were previously made), and obligations to pay $75,000 per year thereafter through the term of the lease. The lease has a primary term of ten years, but may be extended up to an additional 65 years provided that advance payments or production royalty payments are made annually. The lease may be terminated at any time without further payment obligations. A 5% production royalty, based on the gross market value of all minerals extracted, is payable for any production from the leased properties. The lease also includes a provision that the Company pay the annual maintenance fee, presently set at $155 per claim, to the US Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”).
Accessibility. The Ambrosia Lake project area is readily accessible from Albuquerque and the nearby town of Grants through a network of all-weather federal (US Interstate Highway I-40) and State (NM-605 and NM-508) paved highways, as well as a series of privately-owned ranch roads that may become impassable for short periods of time after rain or snow storms. A major east-west transcontinental line of the BNSF Railroad which parallels Interstate Highway 40 is present at the town of Grants, about 16 miles south of the project area, and regularly scheduled air service is available at Albuquerque.
Suitable electrical power is available within the project area.
History. The Ambrosia Lake project area is the site of a large number of underground uranium mines that were the result of successful exploration and development programs that began in the mid 1950’s. Mineral exploration and development programs (including underground mining and large-scale milling) continued into the early 1990’s. During that period of time nearly 190 million pounds of U3O8 were produced from sandstone and limestone-hosted deposits in the district, and a significant amount of uranium mineralization reportedly remains in place in the district. During the period of operation of the Ambrosia Lake mining district, underground uranium mines were discovered, developed and operated by numerous companies, including Homestake Mining Company, Kerr McGee Nuclear, Phillips Petroleum, Ranchers Exploration, United Nuclear/UNC Resources, and others.
Lands that comprise our Ambrosia Lake Project have been explored by several firms (including Homestake Mining, Kerr-McGee, and United Nuclear Corporation) periodically since the mid 1950’s, and numerous exploration holes have been drilled on our properties. Much of the drilling and related technical data from these historical programs is in our possession.
We have previously carried out short drilling programs on properties within the Ambrosia Lake project area, but we have not undertaken any physical work on the Ambrosia Lake properties since 2011.
Project Geology. Uranium deposits in the Ambrosia Lake project area are primarily hosted in porous and permeable sandstones of the Westwater Canyon Member of the Jurassic age Morrison Formation, and to a lesser extent in the Poison Canyon sandstone, also a unit of the Morrison Formation. The individual uranium deposits of the Ambrosia Lake mining district occur as small to large-scale generally flat-lying tabular bodies that are from less than one to upwards of 10 feet or more in thickness, tens to a few hundred feet in width, and from hundreds to a few thousand feet in length. Many of the deposits are associated with organic carbon compounds (“humate”), and their overall geometry mimics the trends of the channel-type sandstones that host the mineralization; consequently these are referred to as “trend-type” deposits. “Trend” deposits are generally aligned in a northwest-southeast orientation. Re-working of “trend-type” deposits by oxidizing groundwater in some cases resulted in the mobilization and subsequent redistribution of uranium mineralization into irregular-shaped deposits that are referred to as “stack” or “redistributed” deposits. The “redistributed” deposits have considerably less organic material associated with the uranium mineralization, and tend to be of a lower grade than the “trend” deposits, but both styles of mineralization were very important sources of uranium.
Permitting Status. The Company previously held permits to carry out exploration drilling projects at two separate locations in the Ambrosia Lake area, but both permits have been allowed to lapse. We do not hold any permits to undertake mining at any of our Ambrosia Lake properties.
Cebolleta Project (Figure 2.10)
General. Our Cebolleta project is located in west-central New Mexico, approximately 45 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque. It is situated in the Laguna mining district, an area that has seen considerable uranium mining activity since the 1950s.
The Property. In March 2007, Neutron Energy, Inc. (“Neutron”) (then operating as Cibola Resources LLC, or “Cibola”, both of which are now a wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company) entered into the Cebolleta Lease with La Merced del Pueblo de Cebolleta (the “Cebolleta Land Grant”), a privately held land grant, to lease the Cebolleta property, which is composed of approximately 6,717 acres of fee (deeded) surface and mineral rights. The lease was affirmed by the New Mexico District Court in Cibola County in April 2007. The Cebolleta Lease provides for: (i) a term of ten years and so long thereafter as Cibola is conducting operations on the Cebolleta property; (ii) initial payments to the Cebolleta Land Grant of $5,000,000; (iii) a recoverable reserve payment equal to $1.00 multiplied by the number of pounds of recoverable uranium reserves upon completion of a feasibility study to be completed within six years, less (a) the $5,000,000 referred to in (ii) above, and (b) not more than $1,500,000 in annual advance royalties previously paid pursuant to (iv); (iv) annual advanced royalty payments of $500,000; (v) gross proceeds royalties ranging from 4.50% to 8.00% based on the then current price of uranium; (vi) employment opportunities and job-skills training for the members of the Cebolleta Land Grant and (vii) funding of annual higher education scholarships for the members of the Cebolleta Land Grant. The Cebolleta Lease provides us with the right to explore for, mine, and process uranium deposits present on the Cebolleta Property. In February 2012, Cibola entered into an Amendment of its Mining Lease Agreement (the “Cebolleta Lease Amendment”) amending the Cebolleta Lease, subject to approval of the Thirteenth Judicial District. Pursuant to the Cebolleta Lease Amendment, the date for the completion of the feasibility study was extended from April 2013 to April 2015. In addition, the date may be further extended subject to a reduction in the $6,500,000 initial payment and annual advance royalty payments deductions to the recoverable reserve payment.
Accessibility. The Cebolleta project is situated in the eastern-most portion of Cibola County, New Mexico. It is located approximately 45 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque, and about 10 miles north of the town of Laguna. A major transcontinental highway (US Interstate Highway I-40) traverses the region about 12 miles south of the project and a well-maintained State of New Mexico paved highway, New Mexico State Highway 279 connects I-40 at the village of Laguna with the settlement of Seboyeta, which is located approximately four miles northwest of the project. An all-weather graded gravel road and several private roads of varying quality cross the project lands and provide access to nearly all parts of the project area. During periods of precipitation access to the immediate project area on the unmaintained private roads may be hindered due to muddy ground conditions, but these events are normally of short duration.
One power line is present at the north end of the project area, and a major high voltage electrical transmission line and sub-station are present approximately five miles northeast of the main part of the project area.
History. Parts of the Cebolleta project were developed as open pit and underground mines, and uranium was produced from the project area during the 1960s, through the early 1980s. Initial production was attained from a small underground mine in the St. Anthony area developed by Climax Uranium in the 1950s. The project was revitalized in the mid-1960s after various leases were acquired by United Nuclear, who also conducted an extensive exploration program on the property, and subsequently developed two open pit and one underground mine on the southern part of the project area. United Nuclear ceased uranium production from their holdings in the project area in 1979.
Sohio Western Mining and Reserve Oil and Minerals carried out an extensive exploration drilling program on lands that comprise the northern part of the current Cibola project area, and subsequently discovered five discrete uranium deposits. Sohio developed one underground mine, and constructed a uranium processing mill on a nearby parcel of land the early to mid-1970s. Sohio operated the mine and mill complex until it was shut down in 1981. There has been no uranium production from the property since 1981.
Project Geology. The Cebolleta project is the site for six sandstone-hosted uranium deposits that occur as discrete flat-lying tabular bodies of uranium mineralization that are hosted within the Jackpile sandstone unit of the Jurassic-age Morrison Formation. The mineralized bodies are contained within channels in the Jackpile sandstone, and are found at depths ranging from approximately 250 to 850 feet below the surface. The deposits are situated above the local and regional water tables.
Development Plan. The Company completed a Technical Report for the Cebolleta project in April 2014. Based on the quantity and quality of the mineral resource, the Technical Report recommends that we advance the Cebolleta Project to a Preliminary Economic Assessment or scoping level study. The Cebolleta Technical Report recommended proceeding with the next step of “confirmation drilling” with the objective of raising the confidence levels of a significant portion of the mineral resources. Another recommendation in the Technical Report was to drill and develop an initial resource model and mineral resource estimate for the historic St. Anthony mine area. Under our current cash conservation measures and business priorities, we are not contemplating any current work at Cebolleta.
Permitting Status. The Company holds a Sub-part 4 Exploration Permit (CI014ER-R3), issued by the Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department of the State of New Mexico for drilling at the Cebolleta project.
Churchrock Project, McKinley County, New Mexico (Figure 2.11)
General. The Churchrock project is situated at the western-most extent of the Grants mineral belt in McKinley County, western New Mexico. The project lands are located approximately 13 miles northeast of the town of Gallup and 110 miles west-northwest of the city of Albuquerque. The project covers much of the southern portion of the Church Rock mining district, where numerous companies carried out extensive exploration programs in the 1950s through the 1970s. The Church Rock district was the site of several large-scale underground uranium mines that were developed between the late 1950s and the 1970s and operated primarily by Kerr-McGee and United Nuclear. There are no active mining operations in the Church Rock district at this time. Additionally, United Nuclear constructed and operated a uranium processing mill north of our properties, but this facility is no longer in operation.
Access to the project area is good. New Mexico State Highway 566, which is a paved two lane highway that crosses the eastern part of the project area, connects with US Interstate Highway I-40 at the village of Church Rock, approximately six miles to the south of our properties. Several maintained and unmaintained paved and dirt roads and trails connect with Highway 566 and traverse much of the project area. The Navajo Nation has challenged the right of the Company to access Section 8 of the Churchrock project by crossing certain Nation trust lands (please see Item 3: