Item 2. Properties - New Mexico Development Properties - Crownpoint District.
THE ISL MINING PROCESS
The ISL mining process, a form of solution mining, differs dramatically from conventional mining techniques. The ISL technique avoids the movement and milling of significant quantities of rock and ore as well as mill tailings waste associated with more traditional mining methods and generally results in a more cost-effective and more environmentally-benign extraction operation in comparison to conventional uranium mining. Historically, the majority of U.S. uranium production resulted from either open pit surface mines or underground shaft operations. These conventional mining methods are, in many cases, capital and labor intensive and are not cost competitive with the majority of non-U.S. conventional producers.
The ISL process was first tested for the production of uranium in the mid-1960's and was first applied to a commercial-scale project in 1975 in South Texas. The ISL process had become well established in the South Texas uranium district by the late 1970's, where it was employed in connection with approximately twenty commercial projects, including two operated by the Company.
In the ISL process, groundwater fortified with oxygen and other solubilizing agents is pumped into a permeable ore body causing the uranium contained in the ore to dissolve. The resulting solution is pumped to the surface where the uranium is removed from the solution and processed to a dried form of uranium which is shipped to conversion facilities for sale to the Company's customers.
An ISL project involves several major components:
ORE BODY EVALUATION
Ore bodies which are currently being mined by the ISL process are associated with groundwater saturated permeable sandstone formations typically located between 100 and 2,000 feet below the surface. The uranium ore is deposited in a roll front configuration where the groundwater passing through the sandstone passes from a natural oxidizing environment to a naturally occurring reducing environment. This change causes the dissolved uranium in the groundwater to become insoluble, and it then attaches to the grains of the sandstone. Some important factors in evaluating an ore body for the ISL process are permeability, the thickness of the ore zone, depth, size, grade of ore, shape of the ore body, nature of uranium mineralization, host rock mineralogy, and the hydrology. These factors are important in determining the design of the wellfield, the type and flow of the leaching solution, and the nature of the surface ISL facilities.
WELLFIELD DESIGN
The wellfield is the mechanism by which the leaching solution, or lixiviant, is circulated through the ore body. The wellfield consists of a series of injection, production (extraction) and monitoring wells drilled in specified patterns. These patterns will vary primarily with the configuration of the ore and the hydrologic characteristics of each deposit. Determining the wellfield pattern is crucial to minimizing costs and maximizing efficiencies of production. Injection and production wells vary in diameter from four to six inches. Generally, these wells are drilled down to the bottom of the ore zone (through which the lixiviant must be circulated to achieve production). Injection and production wells are cased with polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") or fiberglass casings which are cemented in place from the bottom of the ore zone to the surface. The wells are then completed into the ore zone.
LIXIVIANT CHEMISTRY
The lixiviant, consisting of native groundwater fortified with an oxidant and an anionic complexing agent, is introduced via the injection wells to the ore bearing aquifer. The oxidant (gaseous oxygen) changes the uranium valence state making the uranium soluble in the lixiviant. The lixiviant (sodium bicarbonate) complexes the original uranium to a soluble ion, uranyl dicarbonate, which dissolves the uranium. The dissolved uranium then flows to the surface with the lixiviant fluid which is circulated through the ore body until economic recovery is achieved.
URANIUM RECOVERY PROCESS
The uranium recovery process consists of a lixiviant circuit, an elution/precipitation circuit and a drying and packaging process. The lixiviant circuit flows from the ore body, where the uranium is dissolved. The lixiviant stream is then circulated to an ion exchange column on the surface where uranium is extracted from the lixiviant by absorption onto the resin beads of the ion exchange columns. The lixiviant is then refortified and reinjected into the ore body. When the ion exchange column's resin beads are loaded with uranium, the loaded uranium is removed and placed into the elution circuit where the uranium is flushed with a salt water solution which precipitates the uranium from the beads. This leaves the uranium in a slurry, which is then dried and packaged for shipment as uranium powder.
The Company has historically utilized a central plant for the ion exchange portion of the production process. In order to increase operating efficiency and reduce future capital expenditures, the Company began the design and development of wellfield-specific remote ion exchange methodology. Instead of piping the solutions for miles through large diameter pipe lines and mixing the waters of several wellfields together, each wellfield will be mined using a dedicated satellite ion exchange facility. This will allow for ion exchange to take place in the wellfield instead of at the central plant.
Nominal design flow will be in the range of 1,200 gpm, about 25% of the design flow of the central plant at the Kingsville Dome project. Each of these units will consist of several ion-exchange columns and a resin transfer facility. When fully loaded with uranium, the resin will be transferred to a trailer and the resin trucked to the central plant for elution. After stripping the uranium from the resin, the resin will be transferred into the trailer and transported back to the satellite plant in the wellfield.
These satellite facilities will allow each wellfield to be mined using its own native groundwater only, thus eliminating the problems associated with progressive buildup of dissolved solids in the groundwaters and enhancing mining efficiencies and uranium recoveries.
WELLFIELD RESTORATION
At the conclusion of mining, the mine site is decommissioned and decontaminated and the well-field is restored and reclaimed. Wellfield restoration involves returning the aquifer to a condition consistent with its pre-mining use and removing evidences of surface disturbance. The restoration of the wellfield can be accomplished by flushing the ore zone for a time with native ground water and/or using reverse osmosis to remove ions, minerals and salts to provide clean water for reinjection to flush the ore zone. Decommissioning and decontamination of the mine site entails decontamination, dismantling and removal for disposal or reuse of the structures, equipment and materials used at the site during the mining and restoration activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PERMITTING; WATER RIGHTS
The production of uranium is subject to extensive regulations, including federal and state (and potentially tribal) environmental regulations, that have a material effect on the economics of the Company's operations and the timing of project development. The Company's primary regulatory costs have been related to obtaining and complying with the regulatory licenses and permits that must be obtained from federal and state agencies prior to the commencement of uranium mining activities.
Environmental considerations include the prevention of groundwater contamination (through proper design and operation of the wellfield and monitoring wells to prevent the vertical or horizontal escape of leaching solution from the mining area) and the treatment and disposal of liquid and/or solid discrete surface waste or by-product materials (so-called "11e. (2) by-product material" under federal law). The majority of by-product material that is generated is liquid and generally is disposed of through underground injection wells, by a combination of reverse osmosis, brine concentration and evaporation or, after treatment, by surface deposition or discharge. Any such disposal must be approved by the governing authority having jurisdiction over that aspect of the Company's activities. Once mining is completed, the Company is required to reclaim the surface areas and restore underground water quality to the level of quality mandated by applicable regulations or license requirements. A small amount of solid discrete surface waste materials generated by the ISL process is disposed of by delivery to a licensed by-product material disposal site or to a licensed conventional uranium mill tailings pile. While such sites may not be readily available in the future, the Company believes that any increase in the cost of such disposal will continue to be insignificant relative to total costs of production and will not be a material portion of restoration/reclamation costs.
In both Texas and New Mexico there are two primary regulatory authorizations required prior to operations: a radioactive material license and underground injection control ("UIC") permits which relate both to the injection of water for production purposes and to the disposal of by-product material through underground injection wells. Uranium mining is subject to regulation by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC") under the federal Atomic Energy Act ("AEA"); however, the AEA also allows for states with regulatory programs deemed satisfactory by the NRC to take primary responsibility for licensing and regulating certain activities, such as uranium recovery operations. When a state seeks this responsibility, it enters into an agreement with the NRC whereby the NRC agrees to recede from the exercise of most of its counterpart jurisdiction, leaving the matters to be administered by the state. Texas has entered into such an agreement; however, New Mexico is not a party to such an agreement.
The federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA") creates a nationwide regulatory program protecting groundwater which is administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). To avoid the burden of dual federal and state (or Indian tribal) regulation, the SDWA allows for the permits issued by the UIC regulatory programs of states and Indian tribes determined eligible for treatment as states to suffice in place of a UIC permit required under the SDWA. A state whose UIC program has been
determined sufficient for this purpose is said to have been granted "primary enforcement responsibility" or "primacy," and a UIC permit from a state with primacy suffices in lieu of an EPA-issued permit, provided the EPA grants, upon request by the permitting state, an "aquifer exemption" or "temporary aquifer designation" modifying the permitting state's UIC program to recognize the temporary placement of mining fluids into the intended mining zone within the horizontal confines of the proposed mining area. Although the EPA's consent to aquifer exemptions or temporary aquifer designations for certain mineral deposits is often issued almost automatically, the EPA may delay or decline to process the state's application if the EPA questions the state's jurisdiction over the mine site. Both Texas and New Mexico have been granted "primacy" for their UIC programs, and the Navajo Nation has been determined eligible for treatment as a state but is not due to submit its program for EPA approval for several years. Until such time as the Navajo Nation has been granted "primacy," ISL uranium mining activities within Navajo Nation jurisdiction will require a UIC permit from the EPA. Despite some procedural differences, the substantive requirements of the Texas, New Mexico and EPA UIC programs are very similar.
In addition to its radioactive materials licenses and UIC permit, the Company is also required to obtain from appropriate governmental authorities a number of other permits or exemptions, such as for waste water discharge, land application of treated waste water, or for air emissions.
The current environmental regulatory program for the ISL industry is well established. Many ISL mines have gone full cycle through the permit-operating-restoration cycle without any significant environmental impact. However, the public anti-nuclear lobby can make environmental permitting difficult and permit timing less than predictable.
In Texas, the radioactive materials license required for ISL uranium mining is granted by the Texas Department of Health ("TDH") and the UIC permits are granted by the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission ("TNRCC"). The TNRCC also regulates air quality and surface deposition or discharge of treated waste water associated with the ISL mining process. In order for a licensee to receive final release from further radioactive materials license obligations after all of its mining and post-mining clean-up has been completed, approval must be issued by the TDH along with concurrence from the NRC.
In New Mexico, radioactive materials licensing is handled directly by the NRC, rather than by the State of New Mexico. Furthermore, depending upon whether a site located within New Mexico falls under state or Navajo Nation jurisdiction, the permitting of the UIC aspects of ISL mining may be conducted by either the New Mexico Environmental Department ("NMED") or the EPA or possibly both in case of jurisdictional conflict. The jurisdictional issue when raised as to any development property, could result in litigation between the state and the EPA, with the possibility of delays in the issuance of affected UIC permits.
Water is essential to the ISL process. It is readily available in South Texas for the Company's operations and obtaining water rights is not required because water is subject to capture. In New Mexico the use of water rights is administered through the New Mexico State Engineer subject to Indian tribal jurisdictional claims as discussed below. Obtaining new water rights, and the transfer or change in use of existing water rights are carefully and strictly regulated by the State Engineer. The State Engineer may also grant an application for a "temporary water right" which will not establish a vested right but may provide a sufficient quantity of water to fulfill the applicant's needs. The State Engineer exercises jurisdiction over underground water basins with "reasonably ascertainable boundaries." Accordingly, new appropriations or changes in purpose or place of use or points of diversion of existing water rights, such as those in the San Juan and Gallup Basins where the Company's properties are located, must be obtained by permit from the State Engineer. Applications are required to be published and are subject to hearing if protested. There are three criteria for decision, that the application: (1) not impair existing water rights, (2) not be contrary to the conservation of water within New Mexico, and (3) not be detrimental to the public welfare. Applications may be approved subject to conditions which govern exercise of the water rights. Appeals from decisions of the State Engineer are to the district court of the county in which the work or point of desired appropriation is situated and from there to the New Mexico Court of Appeals. Finally, jurisdiction over water rights may become an issue in New Mexico when an Indian nation, such as the Navajo Nation, objects to the State Engineer's authority to grant or transfer a water right or to award a temporary water right, claiming tribal jurisdiction over Indian country. This issue could result in litigation
between the Indian nation and the state which may delay action on water right applications, and, depending on who prevails as to any particular property, could result in a requirement to make applications to the appropriate Indian nation and continuing jurisdiction by the Indian nation over use of the water. All of the foregoing issues arise to a greater or lesser extent in connection with the Company's New Mexico properties, as further described below.
There can be no assurance that the regulatory permits or licenses in Texas or New Mexico, or the applications for water rights in New Mexico, required for any project of the Company will be approved by the necessary governing authority in the form contemplated by management, or in any other form, or within the time periods necessary to commence timely production. Additionally, regulations and permit requirements are subject to revisions and changes which may materially affect the Company's operations. Any delay or failure in obtaining such permits or water rights could materially and adversely affect the business and operations of the Company.
In addition to the costs and responsibilities associated with obtaining and maintaining permits, and the regulation of production activities, the Company is subject to those environmental laws and regulations applicable to the ownership and operation of real property in general, including but not limited to the potential responsibility for the activities of prior owners and operators.
THE URANIUM INDUSTRY
GENERAL
The only significant commercial use for uranium is to fuel nuclear power plants for the generation of electricity. Nuclear plants generated approximately 17% of the world's electricity in 1996, up from less than 2% in 1970. According to the Uranium Institute ("UI"), through the year 2000 nuclear generating capacity is expected to grow at 1% per annum, primarily as a result of new reactor construction outside the United States and increased efficiencies of existing reactors. Prospects for growth beyond 2000 are good. Pressure to reduce greenhouse gases that are primarily caused by the burning of fossil fuels makes nuclear power generation an increasingly important energy source alternative to coal, oil or natural gas. In addition, new generation reactor designs are more standardized which could result in more predictable capital outlays, streamlined start up schedules and inherently safe operations.
As of November 30, 1997, there were 364 nuclear reactors operating in the Western World, 106 of which are in the United States and another 32 under construction outside of the United States. Estimates for uranium consumption by Western World commercial reactors was approximately 142 million pounds of uranium in 1997 representing an increase of 51% over the rate of consumption recorded for 1987. Western World consumption is estimated to range between 135 to 150 million pounds annually during the next five years.
MARKET PRICE FORMATION
1997 represented a volatile year in terms of price formation. At December 31, 1996, the spot price was $14.70 per pound compared to $12.05 per pound at December 31, 1997. The spot price recorded its low for the year of $10.20 at August 30, 1997 but rebounded $2.55 to $12.75 by November 30, 1997.
During May of 1996, spot prices reached a high of $16.50 per pound, a level which had not been reached since December of 1987, but began a slow decline from August 1996 to its current level ($10.75 per pound at February 28, 1998). The first half of 1996 was characterized by increased utility demand together with relatively illiquid inventories. As prices approached their highs for the year, more inventory became available and demand became satisfied at lower prices.
The heavy utility contracting in 1996 resulted in weakened contract demand during 1997 and thus weakening prices. (The volume of spot transactions world wide during the first quarter of 1997 was only 32% of that during the first quarter of 1996). In addition, aggressive selling by the Russian Executive Agent to fill portions of their allotted HEU derived uranium import quota led to a bottoming of prices in
August of 1997 of $10.20 per pound. Utility and producer demand entered at that time helping to fuel a quick recovery to $12.75 per pound at November 30, 1997.
The majority of uranium is sold under long-term contracts. However, the spot price affects the price level at which such long-term contracts can be attained. In rising markets, base price escalated contracts are sought by buyers while spot price related term contracts have been their preference during declining markets.
SOURCES OF SUPPLY
Western World production of uranium in 1996 reached 74 million pounds and is estimated to have increased to approximately 77 million pounds in 1997. Production at this level would represent approximately 54% of estimated consumption for that year. Since 1985 Western World consumption has outstripped Western World production by over 500 million pounds. This gap has been met through inventory drawdowns, imports of CIS uranium product and to a lesser extent, imports from China and former East Bloc countries. Liquidation of government stockpiles has also played a role since approximately 1995 and could be a more significant source of supply in the future.
Inventory Drawdowns: From the early 1970's to 1980, the Western World uranium industry was characterized by increasing uranium production, fueled by overly optimistic projections of nuclear power growth. From 1970 to 1985, production exceeded consumption by approximately 500 million pounds. By the end of 1985, enough inventory had been amassed to fuel Western World reactor needs for over five years. In response, sales of excess inventory followed and prices declined from highs of above $40.00 per pound to below $8.00 per pound in 1991. As prices fell, Western World production was reduced dramatically from a high of 115 million pounds in 1980 to a low of 57 million pounds by 1994. As production fell, consumption increased quickening the pace of commercial inventory drawdown. Currently it is estimated that excess inventory levels (levels in excess of preferred inventories) are less than two years of forward reactor requirements. Preferred inventories are by nature, a function of policy and price. In rising markets, consumers tend to build inventories as a hedge and in falling markets, tend to reduce inventories thereby reducing carrying costs. Both actions tend to exacerbate price movements.
CIS Imports: A rapid increase in the quantity of CIS imports beginning in the late 1980's significantly countered the effect of inventory drawdowns and led to the filing of an anti-dumping suit by the U.S. in late 1991. In October of 1992, suspension agreements were signed limiting CIS access to the U.S. market via strict quotas and anti- circumvention measures. Agreements with the primary uranium producing CIS republics remain in place through at least 2002.
Amendment to Russian Suspension Agreement: On March 11, 1994, the suspension agreement with Russia was amended allowing for up to 43 million pounds of uranium to be imported into the U.S. over ten years, only if it is matched with an equal volume of newly produced U.S. uranium. Although this amendment may increase the supply of uranium to the U.S. market place, it has proven to be an important program for most domestic producers.
CIS Production: Primary uranium production in Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, the major CIS producing republics has declined steadily. In 1993, these republics produced a total of approximately 20 million pounds of uranium. By 1996, production had fallen to approximately 12.5 million pounds representing a 37% decline.
Highly Enriched Uranium: In January of 1994, the U.S. and Russia entered into an Agreement (the "Russian HEU Agreement"), to convert highly enriched uranium ("HEU") derived from dismantling Russian nuclear weapons into low enriched uranium ("LEU"), suitable for use in nuclear power plants. At a projected maximum conversion rate for HEU, approximately 24 million pounds of uranium could be available to Western World markets on an annual basis.
Legislative Disposition of HEU: In 1996, the U.S. Congress passed legislation in compliance with the suspension agreements which allows the converted HEU material to be sold in the U.S. market place at an annual rate not to exceed 2 million pounds in 1998 increasing gradually to 20 million pounds in 2009 and thereafter. At this maximum rate, HEU material could supply approximately 51% of annual U.S. reactor requirements projected for 2009. In addition, HEU is allowed to be used in the U.S. as a source of Russian uranium for matching sales without reducing maximum quotas allowed under the legislation. This legislation also sets forth the procedures/restrictions on sales of U.S. government stockpiles including previously purchased Russian HEU and LEU and natural uranium inventories. The controlled disposition of these government stockpiles is designed to mitigate any adverse impact on the domestic uranium industry as determined by the Secretary of the United States Department of Energy (the "DOE").
Reprocessing: Reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel meets approximately 5-7 million pounds of Western World demand each year. This activity is primarily focused in Western Europe and Japan and it is not expected to increase significantly in the near future.
REQUIRED PRIMARY PRODUCTION
Industry analysts expect annual Western World consumption to range between 135 million and 150 million pounds annually for the near future. The Company estimates that between 30 million and 40 million pounds of this demand could be filled by a combination of government stockpiles (including converted Russian and United States HEU and inventory sold by the DOE), and imports from CIS republics and former East Bloc countries. To achieve market equilibrium, primary production in the Western World will need to supply between 95 million and 120 million pounds on an annual basis subject to adjustments for any remaining excess inventory drawdown and limited uranium reprocessing. Production from existing facilities in the Western World however, is projected to decline from current levels of 77 million to approximately 57 million pounds by 2001 as existing reserves are depleted. New production therefore will have to be brought on line to fill the potential annual gap of between 38 million and 63 million pounds. The Company believes that higher prices will be needed to support the required investment in new, higher cost production as lower cost production reserves are depleted.
The following table shows U.S. production and Western World production and consumption for the years presented.
PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION OF U3O8(1) (Western World Countries) (Amounts in millions of pounds of U3O8)
- ---------- (1) Source: Industry - various publications of Department of Energy/Energy Information Administration ("DOE/EIA"), Trade Tech, UxCo, the Uranium Institute and Nuclear Assurance Corporation.
URANIUM PRICES
Spot prices reflect the price at which uranium may be purchased for delivery within one year. Historically, spot prices have been more volatile than long-term contract prices, increasing from $6.00 per pound in 1973 to $43.00 per pound in 1978, then declining to a low of $7.25 per pound in October 1991. The spot price per pound as of February 28, 1998 was $10.75.
The following graph shows spot prices per pound from 1978 to December 31, 1997, as reported by Trade Tech.
[GRAPH]
- ------------- All prices beginning in 1993 represent the nonrestricted origin U(3)O(8) deliveries available to U.S. utilities. Trade Tech began reporting a two-tier price structure soon after the United States and certain Republics of the CIS agreed to import restrictions on uranium produced. The foregoing prices reflect those prices available to U.S. utility consumers.
COMPETITION
The Company markets uranium to utilities in direct competition with supplies available from various sources worldwide. The Company competes primarily on the basis of price. The Company estimates that for 1997 its uranium production was approximately 15% of the total U.S. production and approximately 2% of the total Western World production.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
SOUTH TEXAS PRODUCING PROPERTIES
The Company currently has two producing properties which are located in South Texas, Rosita and Kingsville Dome. The following is a description of those properties.
KINGSVILLE DOME
The Property. The Kingsville Dome property consists of mineral leases from private landowners (and a small portion owned in fee) on 3,068 gross (3,043 net) acres located in central Kleberg County, Texas. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales. The leases have expiration dates
ranging from February 1998 to 2007. With a few minor exceptions, all the leases contain shut-in royalty clauses which permit the Company to extend the leases not held by production by payment of a royalty.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1997, the property contained approximately 3.3 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.6 million pounds recoverable).
Production History. Initial production commenced in May 1988. In May 1989, due to the continuing decline in the spot price of uranium, the Company deferred development of the next wellfield, and the plant was shut-in in September 1990. Total production from May 1988 through September 1990 was approximately 1.5 million pounds.
Wellfield development activities resumed in December 1995, and production commenced in March 1996. Production at Kingsville Dome was approximately 1.5 million pounds from recommencement of production in March 1996 through December 31, 1997 with 640,000 pounds produced in 1997.
Further Development Potential. As part of the Company's ongoing production activities, it is engaged in significant development and exploration efforts at Kingsville Dome. Exploration is planned northwest of the current production area in 1998. The Company spent approximately $9.0 million in capital expenditures in 1997 and anticipates spending approximately $4.3 million in 1998 for plant capital, permitting, development and land holding costs.
Permitting Status. Radioactive material licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments to the license and permit for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended. The UIC disposal permit will require renewal in mid-1998, and the Company is in the process of applying for that renewal.
Restoration and Reclamation. Restoration of groundwater is planned to commence in early 1998. The Company anticipates spending approximately $430,000 in 1998 on such restoration activities.
ROSITA
The Property. The Rosita property consists of mineral leases on 3,359 gross and net acres located in northeastern Duval County, Texas. All the leases, except minor leases, are held by production. The leases provide for royalties based upon uranium sales.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1997, the property contained approximately 1.4 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 900,000 million pounds recoverable).
Production History. The Company began initial production at Rosita in October 1990. Total production from Rosita for the eighteen months through March 31, 1992 was approximately 1.1 million pounds. In March 1992, due to depressed uranium prices, the Company shut-in production.
Wellfield development activities resumed at Rosita in March 1995, and production recommenced in June 1995. From that date through December 31, 1997 approximately 1.3 million pounds were produced with 230,000 pounds produced in 1997.
Further Development Potential. The Company estimates that there are approximately 900,000 pounds of uranium remaining to be produced from the Rosita project. The Company expects its existing reserves at Rosita to continue in production beyond 1999. The Company spent approximately $2.5 million for development activities, permitting and land holding costs in 1997 and projects expenditures of over $750,000 in 1998.
Permitting Status. Radioactive materials licensing and UIC permit hearings for currently producing areas have been completed, and the necessary permits have been issued. Some minor amendments for further production within the permit area will be required as development proceeds. The term of the license and UIC permit is effectively open-ended.
Restoration and Reclamation. The Company expects to commence initial groundwater restoration in early 1998 and expects to expend approximately $100,000 in 1998 on such activities.
SOUTH TEXAS DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
VASQUEZ
The Property. The property consists of two mineral leases on 842 gross and net acres located in southwestern Duval County, Texas. One lease expires in January 1999, subject to extension for permitting delays, and the other lease expires in February 2000. The leases provide for royalties based on uranium sales. A potential conflict with respect to the mineral rights which had arisen on the Vasquez property regarding a party who owns 50% of the mineral estate has been substantially concluded and such party has disclaimed its interest in the uranium on this property. The Company leases are with the owner of both the surface of the land and 50% of the minerals. As a result of these leases, the Company has the right to mine 100% of the minerals on this property .
Reserves. As of December 31, 1997, the property contained approximately 3.7 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.4 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. Production is targeted to commence in late 1998 or early 1999. The Company spent approximately $400,000 in capital expenditures in 1997 and anticipates spending approximately $440,000 in 1998 for permitting, development and land holding costs. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with the commencement of production at this project which it expects to meet by posting a bond collaterized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Permitting Status. All of the required permit applications have been completed and submitted to the TNRCC and the TDH. These applications are currently under review and the Company expects the permits to be in place in 1998.
ALTA MESA
The Property. The Alta Mesa property consists of 4,575 gross and net acres located in Brooks County, Texas. The Company has a single mineral lease from the private mineral owner. The lease provides for a royalty based upon uranium sales and requires payment of minimum annual royalties if production does not begin by certain specified times. The Company made such a payment in 1997. The Company paid $4 million for the lease of which $1 million is recoverable against one-half of future royalties. The lease term ends in December 1999 unless production from the property commences by that date (subject to extension for permitting delays).
Reserves. As of December 31, 1997, the property contained approximately 6.2 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 4.0 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. Construction of the plant and wellfields is projected to take eight months and is anticipated to begin in the fourth quarter of 1998 depending on the progress in licensing and permitting. The Company spent approximately $515,000 in 1997 for permitting and land holding costs and anticipates spending approximately $680,000 in 1998 for plant construction, permitting and development costs. The
Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with these activities which it expects to meet by posting a bond collaterized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Permitting Status. The Company filed license applications in the fourth quarter of 1996 and anticipates having the final permits in place in the latter part of 1998.
NEW MEXICO DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company has various interests in properties located in the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts in New Mexico. As to these properties, the Company holds both patented and unpatented mining claims, mineral leases and some surface leases from private parties, the Navajo Nation and Navajo allottees. In addition, in March 1997, the Company acquired from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium on significant acreage in New Mexico, a small portion of which falls within the Churchrock district.
In keeping with its overall corporate strategy, the Company's development plan for its New Mexico properties will proceed incrementally, subject to timely permitting, the availability of water rights, the availability of sales contracts and the availability of capital. The Company plans to develop the Churchrock district first and the Crownpoint district next.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
NRC License. In New Mexico, uranium production requires a radioactive materials license issued by the NRC. The Company has applied for one NRC license covering all properties located in both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts (except the Mancos property) and has included the properties in both districts (except the Mancos leases) under one Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) which is a prerequisite for the NRC license.
The NRC has finalized and completed the publication of the FEIS in the first quarter of 1997. The NRC issued an operating license in January 1998 which would allow operations to begin in the Churchrock district, however, the effective date of the license has been temporarily stayed pending a decision by the NRC. As a result of the current stay in place, there can be no assurance that the license will be maintained in its current form allowing the Company to proceed with its planned operations or that the NRC process will be concluded on a timely basis.
UIC Permit. NMED has jurisdiction under the New Mexico Water Quality Act to regulate UIC activities within the State of New Mexico, and the New Mexico UIC program has received "primary enforcement responsibility" from the EPA under the federal SDWA. However, by the terms of regulations issued by the EPA and the primacy determination made for the State of New Mexico, New Mexico's UIC primacy does not extend to New Mexico's exercise of UIC regulation or permitting over facilities located on "Indian lands," a term whose geographic reach the EPA has defined as coextensive with that of "Indian country". Because even a permit issued by a state holding UIC primacy cannot suffice in lieu of a federal UIC permit issued under the SDWA unless the EPA issued a corresponding aquifer exemption or temporary aquifer designation, the EPA's opinion that a site lies within Indian country virtually compels a state UIC applicant to secure an EPA UIC permit for UIC activities to be conducted on such a site.
In addition to the EPA's assertions, the Navajo Nation claims regulatory jurisdiction over a significant portion of the Company's New Mexico development properties. These claims subject the development of those properties within the area claimed as "Indian country" to further uncertainties, including a potential for delays in UIC permitting. For certain properties not permitted by the EPA at the time a Navajo regulatory program is promulgated and accepted by the EPA for a determination of primacy,
the Company would then apply to the Navajo EPA for its UIC permits. Although a Navajo UIC program may adopt unique application, permitting, and enforcement procedures, it would, nonetheless, be required to impose virtually the same substantive requirements as the Company is prepared to satisfy under existing New Mexico and EPA UIC programs.
This dispute over UIC jurisdiction is currently focused on a portion of the Churchrock and Crownpoint properties. Despite this current jurisdictional dispute among the EPA, the State of New Mexico, and the Navajo Nation, the Company maintains good relations with the State of New Mexico, the Navajo Nation, and the EPA. However, there can be no assurance that the jurisdictional dispute will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's development plans in New Mexico.
In February 1998, the United States Supreme Court in Alaska v. Native Village of Venetie Tribal Government interpreted the terms "Indian country" and "dependent Indian Communities". Such interpretation stated that "Indian country" includes "all dependent Indian communities within the United States" and that such lands refer to a specific category of Indian lands that are not reservation nor allotted lands. Such lands must meet the following two criteria; (i) they must have been set aside by the Federal Government for the use of Indians as Indian land; and (ii) they must be under federal superintendence. On the basis of this ruling the Company believes that its private fee lands and federal claims positions in New Mexico may fall under the jurisdiction of the State of New Mexico for regulatory purposes.
Water Rights. For general information on water rights in New Mexico, see "Business-Environmental Considerations and Permitting; Water Rights."
CHURCHROCK DISTRICT
The Property. The Churchrock properties encompass 2,225 gross and net acres and include mineral leases, patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. The properties are located in McKinley County, New Mexico, and consist of three parcels, known as Section 8, Section 17 and Mancos. None of these parcels lies within the area generally recognized as constituting the Navajo Reservation. The Company owns the mineral estate in fee for both Sections 17 and the Mancos properties. The surface estate on Section 17 is owned by the U.S. Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation. The Company owns patented and unpatented mining claims on Section 8. The Company is obligated to pay certain royalties based on uranium sales. The unpatented claims currently require an annual payment of $100 per claim payable to the Bureau of Land Management to remain in full force and effect and are subject to certain overrides. On March 25, 1997, the Company acquired from Santa Fe, the fee mineral interests in Section 17 and Mancos thereby acquiring the position owned by the lessor and extinguished certain of the royalty obligations on those properties.
Reserves. As of December 31, 1997, Section 8 contained approximately 6.5 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 4.2 million pounds recoverable), Section 17 contained approximately 8.4 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 5.5 million pounds recoverable), and the Mancos property contained approximately 4.2 million pounds of in-place proven and probable uranium reserves (estimated 2.7 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed in accordance with the licenses issued by the NRC. It is anticipated that the first property to be licensed will be Churchrock. Costs related to permitting activities and land holding costs were approximately $1.0 million in 1997. The Company anticipates spending approximately $320,000 in 1998 for permitting and land holding costs. The Company anticipates having to demonstrate financial surety in connection with production activities which it expects to meet by posting a bond collaterized by cash in an amount equal to 50% of the bond.
Exploration Potential. The measured in-place reserves in Sections 8 and 17 and Mancos encompass only a small portion of the properties owned by the Company. The Company believes that substantial additional mineralization exists on these properties. Because of greater depths, this
mineralization is estimated to be recoverable at a higher cost and accordingly require higher uranium prices to make them economical to produce.
Water Rights. The Company originally acquired mineral leases on Sections 8 and 17 from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC") and, in connection therewith, acquired certain rights to use water from UNC. An application to use one of these rights has been the subject of extensive administrative proceedings and litigation with the New Mexico State Engineer and the Navajo Nation over the nature and extent of UNC's water rights. The State Engineer determined that the consumptive use and diversion amount UNC originally sought to transfer for use by the Company were in excess of the rights held by UNC and denied the application on the grounds that the UNC rights were insufficient to support the Company's mining operations. The Company has since reapplied and revised its water budget to be consistent with the rights of UNC as determined by the State Engineer. The State Engineer is currently conducting a hearing regarding the application for the transfer of the water rights. A claim by the Navajo Nation to jurisdiction over these water rights was denied by the State Engineer's hearing officer and in the prior proceeding, the state district court. These decisions do not preclude a contrary claim from being made in another proceeding.
Permitting Status. On June 21, 1989 the EPA issued its aquifer exemption covering that portion of the Churchrock site known as Section 8, and on November 1, 1989, NMED issued its permit, covering UIC activities on Section 8. On October 7, 1994, NMED issued an amended permit covering UIC activities on both Section 8 and Section 17. The permit for Section 17 was contested by the Navajo Nation which claimed UIC regulatory jurisdiction over the site, based on the fact that the surface estate is owned by the Navajo Nation. The EPA, acting as an advocate for the Navajo Nation, has asserted the Navajo Nation's claim and has refused to amend its previously issued aquifer exemption covering Section 8 to add the portion of the Churchrock facility on Section 17. The Navajo Nation has asserted jurisdiction over Section 8 as being a "dependent Indian community". The EPA has informed the Company that the regulatory jurisdiction of the property is considered to be in "dispute" and would require an EPA-issued permit prior to the commencement of mining. The Company does not plan to pursue permits for Mancos at this time.
In June 1996, the Company filed with the NMED two applications to renew the permit in two distinct parts, one covering the Section 8 portion and the other the Section 17 portion of Churchrock. This was to assure that the Company maintained a "clear" UIC authorization on the Section 8 portion of the site. The surface estate on Section 8 is not owned by the Navajo Nation or Navajo allottees. Because the renewal application was timely filed, the permit covering the Section 8 property has remained continuously in effect pending final determination on the renewal application by the NMED. The Navajo Nation has recently asserted jurisdiction over the UIC for Section 8, claiming that the land lies within a "dependent Indian community." While the EPA has not yet taken a final position on this issue, they have determined that a dispute does exist between the NMED and the Navajo tribe. As a result of this dispute, the EPA has indicated that an EPA permit will be required on this property. This situation could potentially delay or obstruct development of Section 8. The renewal application pertaining to the Section 17 property will be subject to a new administrative review which will ultimately require EPA to re-examine the jurisdictional status. The State of New Mexico has filed suit for a declaration of UIC jurisdiction over the site. The outcome of this suit may ultimately affect UIC jurisdiction on all Indian lands.
CROWNPOINT DISTRICT
The Property. The Crownpoint properties are located in the San Juan Basin, 22 miles northeast of the Company's Churchrock deposits and 35 miles northeast of Gallup, New Mexico, adjacent to the town of Crownpoint. The Properties consist of 1,578 gross and net acres, as follows:
(a) 162 gross and net acres on Section 24. The Company has 100% of the mineral estate on this acreage pursuant to a combination of a 40% fee interest, a mineral lease on the other 60% of the mineral estate unpatented mining claims. This acreage is subject to an obligation of the
Company to pay a production payment on the first 50,000 pounds of uranium produced and an override based on uranium sales;
(b) 959 gross and net acres on Sections 19 and 29 pursuant to a lease from private mineral owners (expiring August 2007) which provides for royalties and an override based on uranium sales; and
(c) 457 gross and net acres of unpatented mining claims in Sections 9, 24 and 25.
In addition to the foregoing, the Company has 1,440 gross and net acres of mineral leases (hereinafter referred to as "Unit 1") from Navajo allottees who are the beneficial owners of the surface and mineral rights. The leases are subject to approval by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the "BIA"). The BIA Area Director is expected to approve the leases after completion of the license. These leases expire 10 years after the approval by the BIA.
Reserves. With respect to all the Crownpoint acreage except Unit 1, as of December 31, 1997, the property contained approximately 39.0 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 25.3 million pounds recoverable). The Company estimates that Unit 1 contains approximately 27.0 million pounds of in-place proven and probable reserves (estimated 17.6 million pounds recoverable). The Unit 1 reserves are not included as part of the Company's reserve base.
Development Plan. The New Mexico properties will be developed according to the license conditions issued by the NRC. Under the license, the first operating property will be Churchrock followed by Unit 1 and Crownpoint. Costs relating to permitting activities and land holding costs for Crownpoint were $1,153,000 in 1997, and are expected to total $210,000 in 1998.
Water Rights. With respect to Crownpoint, the Company has acquired three applications for appropriations of water which give the Company the first three "positions in line" on the hearings list for the San Juan Basin. Certain aspects of all three applications were protested and are subject to hearings. Water rights relating to Unit 1 may likely involve the claim of the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation, and this jurisdictional issue might also be present for other parts of Crownpoint. The Company plans to proceed with water rights for Crownpoint at a future date.
Permitting Status. The NRC license is part of the overall development plan for both the Churchrock and Crownpoint districts discussed above. The Company has recently submitted a revised UIC permit application for Section 24. There can be no assurance that the UIC permit will be granted. The surface estate on Section 19 and 29 is owned by the U.S. Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation and may be subject to the same jurisdictional dispute as for Section 17 in Churchrock.
SANTA FE PROPERTIES
GENERAL
In March 1997 the Company acquired from Santa Fe certain uranium mineral interests and exploration rights for uranium in New Mexico.
The Properties. The properties consist of: (a) 37,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired a fee interest in the entire mineral estate, excluding coal ("Category I Properties"); (b) approximately 140,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the fee interest in uranium (the "Category II Properties"); and (c) approximately 346,000 acres as to which the Company has acquired the exclusive right to explore for uranium and other minerals excluding coal (the "Category III Properties").
The Company is obligated to spend on exploration $200,000 per year for the ten year period starting in March 1997 and $400,000 per year for the seven year period starting in March 2007. This expenditure can be made on any of the Category II or Category III properties.
The license is for 17 years, expiring in March 2014. In the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $25 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $5 million; and in the event that the sale price of uranium shall exceed $30 per pound for any twelve-month period URI has committed to spend on exploration (or pay to Santa Fe) during the following 5 years an aggregate of $10 million.
With respect to Category II and Category III properties, at such time as URI shall apply for a mining permit with respect to any such properties Santa Fe has the right to put the remaining mineral interests owned by it (excluding coal) to the Company at a price of $200 per acre for any acreage in any section which is covered by the mining application. The acreage price shall be increased by the same percentage as the percentage increase in the price of uranium on the date of such application over $15.80 per pound. URI has the option to purchase at any time the entire mineral estates (excluding coal) on such properties on the same terms.
Reserves. The Company estimates that the Category I Properties contain 14.7 million pounds of proven in-place uranium reserves (estimated 9.6 million pounds recoverable).
Development Plan. The planned development strategy is to integrate qualified properties from the Santa Fe lands into the production plans for Churchrock and Crownpoint.
Exploration Potential. There is significant exploration potential for the Santa Fe properties. Numerous ore grade holes drilled on the properties demonstrates this potential; however, because the deposits are not delineated, development costs are uncertain.
RECLAIMED PROPERTIES
The Company has completed production and groundwater restoration on its Benavides and Longoria projects in South Texas. The Company is currently completing the final stages of surface reclamation on these projects which the Company believes will not involve material expenditures.
On August 28, 1995, Manuel T. Longoria, as owner of the ranch containing the site of the Company's Longoria mine, brought suit against the Company in state district court in Duval County, Texas, asserting claims said to have arisen at various times over the last eighteen years. See "Business-Legal Proceedings."
The Company acquired the Section 17 leases in the New Mexico Churchrock district from United Nuclear Corporation ("UNC"). UNC had conducted underground mining for uranium on Section 17 and had reclaimed these properties. In connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed any liability of UNC for any remaining remediation work that might be required. NMED has not determined what, if any, additional remediation will be required under the New Mexico Mining Act. If more remediation work is required, the Company believes it will not involve material expenditures.
RECLAMATION AND RESTORATION COSTS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS
Upon completion of production from a wellfield, the Company is obligated under state and federal law to restore the aquifer to a condition consistent with its pre-mining use. This involves restoration of the aquifer, plugging and abandoning the injection and production wells and reclaiming the surface. With
respect to operations at Kingsville Dome and Rosita, as well as reclamation and restoration of the Benavides and Longoria projects, the TNRCC requires the Company to provide financial surety to cover the costs of such restoration and reclamation. The surety bond requirement at December 31, 1997 was approximately $5.6 million. The Company fulfills this requirement through the issuance of surety bonds from the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G") and has deposited as collateral for such bonds cash of approximately $3.3 million. The Company is obligated to fund the cash collateral account with an additional $0.50 for each pound of uranium production until the account accumulates an additional $1.0 million. The Company estimates that its future reclamation liabilities with respect to current operations at December 31, 1997 approximates $4.7 million, which has been charged to earnings. These financial surety obligations are reviewed and revised annually by the TNRCC.
The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety of approximately $3.0 million as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the mining of each of the Alta Mesa and Vasquez projects. The Company anticipates that USF&G or other bonding entities will provide the requisite bond under arrangements similar to those in place for Rosita and Kingsville Dome.
In New Mexico surety bonding will be required prior to development of the properties. The Company anticipates that it will be required to provide financial surety as a condition to receipt of the requisite permits for the Churchrock project which it anticipates will be provided by USF&G, or other bonding entities under arrangements similar to those in place for Rosita and Kingsville Dome. The amount of the surety bond will be subject to annual review and revision by the NRC and State of New Mexico.
ITEM 3.