Item 2. Properties
(a.) Reserves and Mineral Deposits
The following table shows our probable gold reserves at December 31, 2005:
Our probable reserves are reported as mineable (extractable) ore reserves. The mineral reserves and resources reported herein were verified by SRK Consulting ("SRK"), based in Toronto, Canada, as of December 15, 2003. We undertook a review to test SRK's ore reserve estimate for impairment in 2004 and 2005 and determined that no changes in the SRK's estimate were necessary based upon the following: 1) none of the ore reserves were mined in 2005 or 2004, consequently there was no depletion of the ore reserve; 2) the aspects of the mine plan have not materially changed; 3) permitting has not impacted the overall mine and milling plan; and 4) we elected to use the same price of gold used in determining ore reserves, $350 per ounce. There were also no new materially negative, or positive, information or developments that would cause us to modify the feasibility study or ore reserve estimate. SRK's feasibility study for the Buckhorn Mountain Project incorporates the Toll Milling Agreement and determined that the reported mineral reserves are economically viable based on current information on costs and technology applicable to mining, metallurgy and other relevant factors that relate to the extraction of the mineral reserve. A summary of the major assumptions is provided below:
Toll milling contract cost:
Gold price:
Gold recovery from mined ore:
Economic cut off grade (ounces gold/ton):
Daily production rate:
Total operating costs:
Initial capital costs:
Sustaining capital, life of mine:
$20 per ton
$350 per ounce
90%
0.19
1,500 tons
$201 per ounce of gold recovered (including toll milling contract cost)
$32.6 million
$10.0 million
Mineral reserves were estimated by SRK based on a gold price of $350 per ounce at December 31, 2003 and reviewed by Crown using the same gold price at December 31, 2005. The market price of gold has ranged from a high of $548 per ounce to a low of $411 per ounce during 2005. However the price of gold over the last five years has ranged from a high of $548 per ounce to a low of $256 per ounce. The use of $350 per ounce for our 2005 review of our reserves is reasonable as it takes into account our estimate of the lower end of potential gold pricing and volatility over the life of the mine. Moreover, because of the high-grade nature of the Buckhorn Mountain gold deposit with very sharp ore-waste boundaries, higher gold prices do not materially increase the reserves. The value of contained silver in the ore was ignored. The gold price at the time of reporting of the reserves was substantially higher than the level used in estimating. However, the price has been lower during recent time periods. If the market price were to decrease to lower levels, we may determine that our reserves should be re-estimated resulting in a potential reduction in the amount of reserves.
In addition to the above, we have identified mineral deposits on the Kings Canyon property in Utah. However, we have no proven and probable reserves or capitalized costs associated with this property as of December 31, 2005.
The following discussion summarizes the mineral property in which we have a direct interest. We believe the mineral property described below is favorable for mineral development, although we cannot assure you that any of the mineral property in which we have or may acquire an interest, will be placed into production.
(b.) Buckhorn Mountain Project
Property Description and Location. The Buckhorn Mountain Project is located on approximately 2,000 acres, 24 miles east of Oroville, Washington. We currently own 100% of the Buckhorn Mountain Project, which was held in a joint venture with Battle Mountain Gold Corporation ("Battle Mountain") prior to July 2001. During our joint venture with Battle Mountain, the Buckhorn Mountain Project was known as the Crown Jewel Project. Battle Mountain merged with Newmont Gold Corporation ("Newmont") on January 10, 2002.
The Buckhorn Mountain Project is held by a combination of fee ownership and unpatented mining claims. The ore deposit lies entirely on fee lands (patented mining claims) that we own. Royalties on mineral property we control and payable to third parties vary from a 0.5% net smelter return ("NSR") royalty to an 8.33% net profits royalty on certain unpatented mining claims. The ore body as currently defined is subject only to a sliding-scale royalty payable to Newmont of 0.5% to 4%, depending on the price of gold. The Newmont royalty may be purchased in its entirety for $2.0 million at any time before July 23, 2006.
We applied for patents on nine unpatented mining claims covering approximately 154 acres in 1992. In December 2004, the Department of Interior-Bureau of Land Manage approved our patent applications and we received title to both the surface and mineral estate on these lands. These patented claims cover most of the ore reserves, the remaining portion of the reserves being covered by older patented claims that we own. We now own title to both the mineral and surface estate covering the entire ore reserve.
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure, and Terrain. The Buckhorn Mountain Project is located in the Okanogan Highlands, a mountainous terrain characterized by rounded peaks and moderately steep walled valleys. The elevation range in the project area is approximately 4,500 feet to 5,500 feet.
Vegetative cover in the project area is mostly coniferous forest dominated by Douglas fir and western larch. Natural openings on forested hillsides consist of dry scrublands or grassy meadows. The climate in the deposit area can be considered temperate. The calculated mean annual precipitation is 20 inches, approximately 35% of which falls as snow. Average annual total snow accumulation in the area of the deposit is about three feet.
The small community of Chesaw is the closest town. Oroville (population 1,500) is the nearest incorporated community. Paved roads from Oroville approach to within six miles of the property with the remaining access by graded county road and three miles of primitive USFS road. No power exists at the location of the ore deposit. The nearest power is located three miles to the south.
History. We discovered the ore bodies known as the Buckhorn Mountain Project deposit shortly after acquiring the property in 1988. Prior to that time only small prospect pits, shafts and tunnels had explored the general area, none of which intersected the ore body, as it is currently defined.
In March 1990, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Battle Mountain (the "Battle Mountain JV Agreement"), under which Battle Mountain could earn a 51% interest in the Buckhorn Mountain Project by building a 3,000-ton per day mining facility. The Battle Mountain JV Agreement was subsequently modified in May 1994 allowing Battle Mountain the right to earn a 54% interest in the Project. Under the Battle Mountain JV Agreement, as amended, Battle Mountain paid us $18,500,000, and funded all exploration and permitting on the Buckhorn Mountain Project through July 2001. On July 23, 2001, we entered into an agreement (the "Termination Agreement") with Battle Mountain to terminate the Battle Mountain JV Agreement. As part of the Termination Agreement, we became the sole owner and manager of the Buckhorn Mountain Project and granted Battle Mountain a sliding scale royalty of 0.5% to 4% on the first one million ounces of gold. The royalty varies with the price of gold and we may purchase the royalty from Newmont, as successor to Battle Mountain, for a payment of $2 million any time before July 23, 2006.
Since return of 100% ownership of the property, we have conducted drilling, engineering and environmental studies and permitting activities. Since signing of the Merger agreement with Kinross, we have worked with Kinross in these same activities.
Geology and Mineralization. The Buckhorn Mountain Project gold deposit occurs within a portion of an extensive calcic skarn system formed at the southern contact of the Buckhorn Mountain Jurassic/Cretaceous-aged diorite-granodiorite pluton with Triassic-aged limestones and andesites. Both the skarn system and the ore body are largely tabular and flat lying in geometry. The skarn system is compositionally zoned in relation to the intrusive pluton with gold mineralization both concordant and crosscutting to the various skarn assemblages. Gold enrichment occurs almost exclusively within skarnified rocks both as irregular bodies and as more continuous tabular replacements of limestone. Gold values are associated with low grades of silver (less than one ounce per ton). No other economic minerals occur within the ore.
Exploration. We began an exploration program at the Buckhorn Mountain Project in mid-1988 and by the end of 1989 had drilled approximately 200 holes on the property. Between March 1990 and December 1992, Battle Mountain drilled over 550 holes designed to both confirm and expand the known reserve. In 2002 and 2003, we drilled 41 core holes to further confirm the grade and continuity of mineralization in selected parts of the ore body. No drilling was conducted on the property in 2004. In late 2005 Kinross conducted a 29-hole infill drilling program in portions of the reserve area as part of their due diligence activities to further define ore boundaries.
Drilling, Sampling and Analysis, and Security of Samples. Drilling on the property occurred in four phases. We drilled core and reverse circulation rotary holes during the period of 1988 to early 1989. Battle Mountain drilled core and reverse circulation rotary holes from 1990 to 1995. We drilled core holes in 2002 and 2003 and Kinross drilled core holes in 2005. During the first phase of our drilling, splits were taken of drill samples and submitted for analysis to Silver Valley Laboratories of Osburn, Idaho. Core was sawed and reverse circulation rotary chips were riffle split in order to obtain representative samples for analysis. Check assays of selected samples were submitted for comparison with original assays. Sample intervals were selected by the geologist in charge of the project. After acquiring its joint venture interest, Battle Mountain checked our drill results by submitting splits from the core, pulps from core and reverse circulation rotary samples and reverse circulation rotary duplicate chips to a second laboratory for confirmatory assays. Additionally, Battle Mountain drilled twin holes to confirm our results in selected areas.
Battle Mountain's drilling was logged by a geologist and was sampled on five-foot intervals. Entire core samples were submitted for assay and pulps were checked for re-assay. Rejects of reverse circulation rotary holes were re-assayed. Standards and blanks were submitted along with exploration samples. Battle Mountain primarily used Silver Valley Laboratory of Osburn, Idaho for assay services.
Samples from our second phase of drilling in 2002 and 2003 were assayed primarily by CAS Laboratories of Spokane, Washington with most check assays performed by ALS Chemex laboratory of Vancouver, British Columbia. Imbedded standards, sample duplicates and blanks were assayed. We used CAS laboratories of Spokane, Washington as the primary laboratory and ALS Chemex laboratory of Vancouver, British Columbia as the primary check assay laboratory. Core was logged and sample intervals were selected by the geological staff for analysis. Chain of custody was documented between the geologist and the laboratory. Core samples and rejects are stored on site under our supervision.
Kinross drilling in 2005 was logged by a geologist and assayed by American Analytical Services, Inc., of Osburn, Idaho. Assay intervals were variable and based upon geology. The core samples were split with one-half sent to the assay laboratory and the other half retained for future reference. We have not independently verified quality controls or chain of custody procedures utilized by Kinross.
No significant sampling or analytical biases are known to exist within any of the data sets that could affect the estimation of the resources or reserves.
Toll Milling Agreement. On November 11, 2003, we entered into a toll milling agreement with Echo Bay Minerals, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kinross, whereby we agreed to deliver ore from our Buckhorn Mountain Project deposit to Echo Bay Minerals' Kettle River mill, located near Republic, Washington approximately 92 kilometers (57 miles) from the Buckhorn Mountain Project. Under the terms of the toll milling agreement, Echo Bay Minerals agreed to process up to 1,500 tons per day of ore produced at the Buckhorn Mountain Project at a cost to us of $20 per ton. In addition, we agreed to pay a one-time capital charge of $5,000,000 to Echo Bay Minerals on or before the last day of the calendar month following the delivery of ores from the Buckhorn Mountain Project to the Kettle River mill. The toll milling agreement is subject to our obtaining the necessary permits to mine and deliver the ores from the Buckhorn Mountain Project, standard toll-milling terms regarding (among other terms) grade, delivery, commingling and refining, and regulatory approval. If the Merger is consummated, the toll milling agreement will be between subsidiaries of Kinross and, therefore, may be terminated.
Permitting and Development. In July 2001, we became the sole owner of the Crown Jewel project and renamed it the Buckhorn Mountain Project. Previously, the Crown Jewel Project had been subject to a joint venture agreement between Crown and Battle Mountain. Battle Mountain had proposed an open-pit mining operation with an on-site processing facility. Battle Mountain's proposed open-pit Crown Jewel Project was subjected to numerous permitting and legal challenges and delays. In January of 2000, the Washington Pollution Control Hearings Board (the "PCHB") vacated the previously granted 401 Water Quality Permit and certain water rights for the Crown Jewel Project. Other permits previously granted to the Crown Jewel Project have since lapsed and are in the process of being reacquired as part of the ongoing permitting process.
As part of the analysis of the Buckhorn Mountain Project subsequent to the January 2000 PCHB ruling, we retained Gochnour and Associates ("Gochnour") to review the required permits for a potential combination underground/open-pit-mine design for the Buckhorn Mountain Project ore deposit. Gochnour indicated this mine design would require conducting additional baseline studies and collecting data for modeling to amend previously approved permits as well as to obtain permits for activities that were not previously contemplated, for example the underground mining effects on ground water. Gochnour indicated the underground alternative would also require mitigation of environmental impacts. The Gochnour report concluded the proposed mine design is legally permittable.
During 2002, we began seeking regulatory approval and permits to operate an exclusively underground mining operation at the Buckhorn Mountain Project. In May 2003, we submitted our Initial Buckhorn Mountain Project Plan of Operations with the USFS and the WDOE. The Initial Buckhorn Mountain Project Plan of Operations was deemed complete by the USFS in August 2003. This plan proposed a processing facility seven miles from the mine that we would construct, own, and operate. The ore would have been trucked from the mine to the mill. We believed this development plan significantly reduced the environmental impacts compared to the Crown Jewel open-pit mining plan proposed by Battle Mountain.
Subsequent to the signing of the toll milling agreement with Echo Bay Minerals, we filed an amended Buckhorn Mountain Plan of operations as outlined in the SRK feasibility study that provides for trucking of ore from the mine to the Kettle River processing facility owned by Echo Bay Minerals. This new development plan further reduces environmental impacts in comparison to the previous Buckhorn Mountain Project Plan of Operations by eliminating the need for new milling and tailings disposal facilities.
As a result of the Department of Interior-Bureau of Land Management issuing the patents to us, the surface title was transferred from the USFS to us. Subsequently, the USFS determined that it was unnecessary for it to continue to be a co-lead agency in the permitting process. The WDOE is now the sole lead agency for all permitting activities. The USFS is currently preparing an Environmental Assessment (EA) for proposed activities that will occur on federal land, including upgrading of existing access roads, the construction of approximately 1.5 miles of new road, the installation and maintenance of water quality monitoring wells and construction of a perimeter fence line. The WDOE completed the work necessary for filing the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement ("DSEIS") during the third quarter of 2005, and the DSEIS was published on October 28, 2005 for public comment. The WDOE and the USFS is currently addressing public comments concerning the DSEIS and EA as part of preparing the final SEIS and EA.
We are currently finalizing the construction and operational permits required for development and production on the property. A variety of permits and approvals are under application from the state of Washington and from local governmental entities.
Although we are not aware of any laws or regulations which would be violated by the mine design proposed in the SRK feasibility study, as subsequently modified in the environmental review process, there will continue to be uncertainty regarding our ability to obtain the necessary permits from the regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if ever.
Construction of the Buckhorn Mountain Project will not begin prior to the successful issuance of the remaining permits and resolution of any potential future legal and administrative challenges. Potential delays due to the appeals process, permit process or litigation are difficult to quantify. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings".
Financing. If the Kinross Merger is not completed, we would require additional capital in the form of either equity or debt financing, or we would need to enter into a joint venture to permit, develop, and operate the Buckhorn Mountain Project. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms in order for the Buckhorn Mountain Project to enter into commercial production. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
(c.) Other Property Interests
Kings Canyon. The Kings Canyon property in Utah consists of 360 acres of unpatented claims. We hold a 100% interest in the property, subject to a 4% net smelter royalty to third parties. There are no proven or probable reserves or capitalized costs related to the Kings Canyon property as of December 31, 2005. We will continue to maintain the property and if the Kinross merger is not completed we may sell our interest or seek a joint venture partner to further evaluate and develop the Kings Canyon property.
(d.) Mineral property and Exploration Expenditure Overview
During 2005, we incurred $1,863,000 in expenditures (of which $464,000 were reimbursed to us by Kinross) and Kinross directly paid third party vendors an additional $1,466,000 in support of permitting and development of our Buckhorn Mountain Project. We are required to pay annual property taxes on fee lands and patented mining claims we own, which we expense to operations as incurred. These amounted to $6,000 and $5,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We are required to pay annual rental and maintenance fees to maintain our interests in unpatented mining claims, which we expense to operations as incurred. These amounted to $20,000 and $21,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Any production from our fee lands, patented mining claims, and unpatented mining claims will be subject to ad valorem taxes. We have no work commitments to be fulfilled in 2006.
2006 Annual Maintenance Fee Commitments:
Payments on unpatented mining claims
Property
Buckhorn Mountain
Kings Canyon
Total
$18,000
2,000
$20,000
Item 3.