Item 2. Properties
Reserves and Mineral Deposits
The following table shows gold reserves net to Crown at December 31, 1999:
Mineable Proven and Probable Reserves
Ore Gold Grade Contained Gold (Millions of tons) (oz/ton) (000 ozs)
Crown Jewel Project 2.56 0.354 905
Crown's proven and probable reserves are reported as mineable (extractable) ore reserves. Reserves do not reflect recovery losses in the milling process, but do include allowance for dilution of ore in the mining process. Reserves have been calculated based on a gold price of $325 per ounce. Metallurgical recovery of 85% was estimated. The reserves were based upon an independent analysis performed by MRA in March 2000 assuming 100% ownership by Crown. See Crown Jewel Project.
While Crown has 100% ownership of the Crown Jewel project, the project is currently subject to Battle Mountain's right to acquire a 54% interest under the terms of the Crown Jewel Venture Agreement ("Venture Agreement"). Battle Mountain had previously reported total proven and probable reserves of 1.5 million ounces for the project, 707,000 ounces net to the Crown's 46% interest, as part of a mining plan under the Venture Agreement. However, in February 2000, in light of the January 2000 PCHB ruling, Battle Mountain reclassified its interest in the Crown Jewel project from proven and probable reserves to mineralized materials and wrote off its investment in the Crown Jewel Project as of December 31, 1999. See Crown Jewel Project.
In addition to the proven and probable reserves shown above, are mineral resource deposits reported by MRA of 1,295,000 tons at a grade of 0.383 ounces of gold per ton for a total of 496,000 contained ounces of gold. These tons are included to be mined and processed in the mine plan developed by MRA.
In addition to the above, Crown has identified mineral deposits on the Cord Ranch, Kings Canyon and Bongara properties.
The following discussion summarizes the primary mining properties in which Crown has interests. Company management believes the properties described below are favorable for mineral development, although there is no assurance that any of the properties in which Crown has or may acquire an interest will be economically viable.
Crown Jewel Project
General. The Crown Jewel project is located on an approximate 8,000-acre property 24 miles east of Oroville, Washington. Crown discovered the Crown Jewel gold deposit in 1988, and has a carrying value of approximately $13.7 million in land, acquisition and exploration costs as of December 31, 1999. The project is currently under joint venture with Battle Mountain.
The property is held by a combination of fee ownership, private mining leases with options to purchase, state mining leases, with the balance being unpatented mining claims. Royalties vary from 4%-5% net smelter return ("NSR") royalties on certain private parcels, however, the ore body as currently defined is not subject to royalties payable to any third party.
Geology and Land. The Crown Jewel deposit occurs within a large skarn system formed at the southern contact of the Buckhorn Mountain Cretaceous-aged diorite-granodiorite pluton with Triassic- aged limestones and andesites. Both the skarn system and ore body are relatively tabular and flat-lying in geometry. The skarn system is compositionally zoned in relation to the intrusive pluton with gold mineralization both concordant and crosscutting to the various skarn assemblages.
Battle Mountain Joint Venture. In March 1990, Crown entered into an agreement with Battle Mountain, which was subsequently modified in May 1994. Under the agreement as modified, Battle Mountain has paid to Crown $18,500,000, and since March 14, 1990, has funded all exploration and permitting on Crown Jewel. Crown does not anticipate receiving additional payments from Battle Mountain under the joint venture agreement. In order to acquire a 51% interest in the project, and an additional 3% interest (to 54%) in the first 1,600,000 ounces of gold from the project, Battle Mountain is required to construct a facility to treat a minimum of 3,000 tons of ore per day and to fully fund exploration and development costs through the commencement of commercial production to acquire its interest. No monies are repayable by Crown to Battle Mountain for the costs Battle Mountain incurs prior to commercial production.
Reserves. In February 2000, in light of the January 2000 PCHB ruling, Battle Mountain reclassified its interest in the Crown Jewel project from proven and probable reserves to mineralized materials and wrote off its investment in the Crown Jewel Project as of December 31, 1999. Battle Mountain based its decision on the uncertainty about the ability to obtain permits for the Battle Mountain mine plan which contemplates an open-pit mine capable of supporting a 3,000 ton per day mining facility. In February 2000 Crown engaged MRA to conduct an independent analysis of an alternative mine plan that would have reduced environmental impacts. Crown also engaged Gochnour and Associates ("Gochnour") to evaluate the ability to obtain permits for the alternate mine plan. Based upon the reports of MRA and Gochnour, Crown has determined that the Crown Jewel Project contains sufficient reserves to recover Crown's investment whether developed under the current joint venture agreement or independently by Crown. The following table summarizes the Crown Jewel reserves as of December 31, 2000, as provided by MRA:
Proven and Probable Reserves (100% basis)
Grade Contained Tons (oz/ton) Ounces
Crown Jewel 2,556,000 0.354 905,000
Reserve Study. The MRA study indicates the deposit could be mined in a combination of underground operations with a small open- cut, with ore processed on site in a mill processing 1850 tons per day.
The reserve analysis was based on results from 765 drill holes totaling 307,038 feet. MRA's mine design utilizes a 0.155 ounces of gold per ton ("opt") cutoff grade with a 85% metallurgical recovery factor for gold. The assumed economic parameters applied to the design included a $325 gold price, mining costs of $26.20 per ton for underground and $2.20 per ton for the open cut. The open cut is assumed to produce 354,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 0.263 opt with a strip ratio of 9.2:1. The MRA design utilizes the waste rock from the open cut for tailings dam construction and to backfill the underground mining areas to reduce subsidence and increase the recoverable underground ounces. The underground mine is assumed to produce 2,203,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 0.368 opt. The design calls for a processing facility rated at 1850 tons per day utilizing the parameters developed in the 1992 feasibility study, updated for subsequent engineering studies, for a carbon in leach mill with an 85% recovery factor. The estimated milling costs are $13.60 per ton with project administration estimated at $2.00 per ton.
Based upon the same cutoff grade, MRA has estimated other mineral deposits of 1,295,000 tons grading 0.383 opt for a total of 496,000 contained ounces are present within the currently designed underground workings at Crown Jewel.
The cash operating costs to mine proven and probable reserves and deposits within the underground workings have been estimated by MRA to be approximately $134 per ounce, with capital costs of approximately $91 million (including $21 million of contingency) to bring the project into production.
Exploration. Crown began an exploration program at Crown Jewel in mid-1988 and by the end of 1989 had drilled approximately 200 holes on the property. Between March 1990 and December 1992, Battle Mountain drilled over 550 holes designed to both confirm and expand the known reserve. To date, only 500 acres of the approximate 2,000 acres of prospective skarn geology have been drill-tested.
Feasibility Study. Prior to the MRA study and Battle Mountain's decision to write off its investment in the Crown Jewel project, Crown relied upon the results of an independent feasibility study commissioned by Battle Mountain in March of 1992. Based on this study, Battle Mountain began development of the Crown Jewel gold deposit based on a mine design utilizing an open pit and a 3,000 ton per day mining facility. Further engineering and reserve studies by Battle Mountain estimated direct cash production costs at approximately $165 per ounce of gold produced. Battle Mountain's mine design estimated capital costs at approximately $80 million to achieve commercial production. Should the joint venture proceed, Battle Mountain will be responsible for funding capital costs. The studies indicated an approximate eight-year mine life with production averaging 175,000 ounces (100% basis) of gold per year.
Permitting and Development. Battle Mountain submitted its original Plan of Operations ("POO") to the Washington Department of Ecology ("WDOE") and the United Stated Forest Service ("USFS") in January 1992. In February 1997, the Final Environmental Impact Statement ("FEIS") was filed by the USFS and the WDOE. The FEIS describes the environmental effects of the plan to construct and operate the Crown Jewel mine, and alternatives to that plan. Also, in February 1997, the USFS and the Bureau of Land Management issued a favorable Record of Decision ("ROD") selecting Battle Mountain's open pit mining alternative.
Several appeals by certain persons and special interest groups contesting the FEIS were filed with the USFS in 1997. In May of 1997, the USFS Deputy Regional Forester upheld the ROD to approve the Crown Jewel mine project, denying four appeals which had been filed in March 1997. In May 1997, an action was filed in U.S. District Court against the USFS appealing certain issues. In January 1999, the Court ruled in favor of the USFS and denied all claims of the plaintiffs.
In September 1997, an action was filed before PCHB challenging the FEIS and certain permit decisions. On the January 19, 2000 PCHB issued a ruling vacating the previously granted 401 Water Quality Permit for the Crown Jewel Project issued by the WDOE. The ruling also reversed certain water rights issued by the WDOE for the Crown Jewel Project. On March 14, 2000, Battle Mountain appealed the PCHB ruling in Superior Court for the State of Washington for Okanogan County. No hearing date has been set in the appeal.
Only one major permit necessary to begin construction remained outstanding prior to the negative PCHB ruling. It is not known if other permits previously granted to the project may be subject to review as a result of the PCHB ruling.
As part of the analysis of the Crown Jewel reserves subsequent to the January 2000 PCHB ruling, Crown retained Gochnour, an independent mining environmental consultant, to review the required permits for the mine design as proposed in the MRA report. Gochnour indicates the MRA design would require conducting additional baseline studies and collecting data for modeling to amend previously approved permits as well as to obtain permits for activities that were not previously contemplated, for example the underground mining effects on ground water. Gochnour indicated the underground alternative will also require mitigation of environmental impacts. The Gochnour report concludes the MRA mine design is legally permittable. Although Crown and Gochnour are not aware of any laws or regulations which would be violated by the mine design proposed by MRA, there will continue to be uncertainty regarding the ability of Crown obtaining the necessary permits from the regulatory authorities in a timely manner, if ever.
In late March 1999, Battle Mountain received notification (the "Notification") that the Department of Interior and the Department of Agriculture could not presently approve the POO for the Crown Jewel Project and vacated the previously approved ROD. On May 21, 1999, President Clinton signed legislation mandating the reinstatement of the ROD and approval of the POO. The Departments of Interior and Agriculture reinstated the ROD and approved the POO in June 1999.
Construction of the Crown Jewel project will not begin prior to the successful completion of the remaining permit applications and resolution of the legal and administrative challenges. Potential delays due to the appeals process, permit process or litigation are difficult to quantify. See Legal Proceedings.
Financing. In the event that Battle Mountain is unable to proceed with the project and must relinquish its right to acquire a 54% interest, Crown would then make a decision to either proceed with the project alone or seek a similar joint venture situation with another major mining company. There is no assurance that Crown could successfully pursue either strategy.
In order to acquire its 54% interest in the project, Battle Mountain is currently funding all general property, exploration and development costs through the start of commercial production, including the construction of a mill facility capable of processing a minimum of 3,000 tons of ore per day. No monies are repayable by Crown to Battle Mountain for the costs incurred through the pre- commercial production stage. Crown will be required to fund its 46% share of production costs upon the start of commercial production.
Cord Ranch Project
General. In 1989, Crown entered into an exploration and mining agreement with the surface and mineral rights owners of the 34,000-acre Cord Ranch located in Elko County, Nevada. The lease agreement was originally for a term of five years from August 31, 1989 and renewable thereafter.
Following several amendments, the amended agreement provided for a minimum payment of $25,000, paid in 1999. Additionally, the agreement calls for non-recoupable payments depending on the price of gold of between $65,000 and $90,000 in 2000, between $100,000 and $150,000 in 2001, and $150,000 and $200,000 in 2002 and thereafter. Pursuant to the amended agreement, Crown may terminate the lease agreement at any time and avoid any future obligation or commitment, except reclamation.
Two property acquisitions immediately adjacent to the Cord Ranch were made in 1990. The Dixie Creek project, consisting of 1,240 acres, was acquired under agreements entered into in October 1990. At approximately the same time, the Pinon Range property, consisting of 640 acres of unpatented claims, was acquired.
In September 1994, Crown signed an agreement which was assigned to a subsidiary of Royal Standard Minerals Inc. ("Royal Standard"). Royal Standard has earned a 70% interest in Crown's Cord Ranch and adjacent gold properties. In addition, Royal Standard must provide Crown's share of expenditures through the completion of a favorable feasibility study, with such expenditures to be repaid from Crown's share of production from the properties.
In April 1997, Royal Standard assigned Cameco (U.S.)Inc. ("Cameco") the right to earn a 51% interest in the Cord Ranch lease and claims reducing Royal Standard's interest to 19% upon earn-in. In August 1999, Cameco dropped its option to earn an interest in the property. Royal Standard is currently seeking a new joint venture partner on the property.
Geology. The Cord Ranch properties lie on the east side of the Pinon Range and are situated on the Carlin gold trend, where nearly four million ounces of gold are produced annually. Paleozoic strata underlying the western parts of the property are the same formations hosting major deposits in the southern section of the trend. The area has sustained multiple periods of deformation and structural preparation of the rocks is very good. Gold mineralization is generally associated with jasperoid rocks.
Mineral Deposits. To date, 418 drill holes have been completed on the Cord Ranch project. In early 1994, Crown estimated the size of two gold deposits, the Pinon Range and Dark Star deposits. Based on the results of 150 drill holes, the Pinon Range mineral deposit is estimated at 7.2 million tons containing 0.025 opt of gold at a cutoff grade of 0.013 opt of gold. At Dark Star, 61 drill holes completed by Crown during 1991-92 define a mineral deposit totaling 7.5 million tons grading 0.020 opt of gold at a cutoff grade of 0.013 opt of gold. Combined, Crown and Royal Standard hold 50% of the mineral rights and 100% of the surface rights at Dark Star.
Other Property Interests
Lamefoot Mine Royalty. In 1992, Crown acquired from various underlying lease holders a 0.75% NSR royalty interest in the Lamefoot deposit for $306,000. This property lies approximately three miles from the Kettle River Project ("KRP") mill, operated by Echo Bay Mines Ltd. ("Echo Bay") in northeastern Washington state. According to Echo Bay, Lamefoot ores represent one of the two ore feed sources to the KRP mill through the next year. Crown received approximately $104,000 in royalties from Lamefoot during 1999. Crown expects to receive approximately $100,000 in royalties from Lamefoot during 2000.
Kings Canyon. The Kings Canyon property in Utah consists of 1,525 acres of state leases and unpatented claims. Crown holds a 100% interest in the property, subject to a 1-4% NSR royalty to third parties.
Crown estimates the Kings Canyon property hosts a mineral deposit that contains 6.8 million tons of material grading 0.030 opt of gold at a cutoff grade of 0.013 opt gold. The gold occurs as sediment-hosted disseminated mineralization in Paleozoic carbonate rocks. Crown intends to find a joint venture partner to further evaluate and develop this mineral deposit.
Manhattan. A 100% interest in the 540-acre Manhattan property in central Nevada was acquired in 1989. In December 1999 Crown dropped the Manhattan property and wrote off the remaining investment of $79,000. No further work is anticipated on this property.
Kendall Mine Royalty. In September 1991, Crown acquired Judith Gold Corporation, whose primary asset is the Kendall property located near Lewiston, Montana. Canyon Resources Corporation leases the Kendall property which entitles Crown to receive a 5% NSR royalty on production at the Kendall gold mine. Mining of ore at the Kendall mine has ceased and the mine site is presently in reclamation.
MEXICO
Since 1997, Crown has conducted exploration and reconnaissance activities in Mexico, focusing its efforts in the state of Durango. In early 1999, Crown acquired the Magistral del Oro ("Magistral") and San Juan de Minas ("San Juan") properties covering approximately 13,000 acres and 700 acres respectively. The owner of the Magistral claims entered into bankruptcy proceedings in Mexico during 1999 and due to related complications in securing adequate title to the property , the interest in the Magistral property was dropped by Crown in December 1999.
San Juan
The 700-acre San Juan property holds identified targets with potential to host high-grade silver, lead, zinc and gold vein mineralization as well as disseminated gold-silver mineralization in footwall and hanging wall zones of main fissure veins. Mineralization in veins and alteration are predominantly hosted in diorite and granite intrusions. Minor historic production, to depths of 130 feet, took place along the 6,500 foot long west- northwest trending vein zone. Individual veins range up to 15 feet thick with adjacent disseminated mineralization ranging up to 300 feet in width.
Crown will earn a 100% interest in the San Juan property, acquired in 1999, by making cash payments to concession holders totaling $232,000 over four years, and an additional balloon payment of $800,000 at the end of the four years. Crown is also required to pay all taxes and meet required work commitments as prescribed by Mexican law. The San Juan property was located by a third party consultant who will earn a commission totaling $45,000 during the first three years and $40,000 per year until the property is either abandoned or put into production. The third party consultants will retain a NSR of 2% from any production, subject to minimum annual payments of $50,000.
Crown has planned a six-hole 3,300 foot drilling program is scheduled for the San Juan property in the first quarter of 2000.
Peru
The following map shows the location of the primary properties in which the Company has interests in South America.
PERU
Bongara Zinc Project, Amazonas Department, Peru
General. Since 1993, Solitario has leased exploration concessions or has filed claims for concessions currently covering approximately 80,000 acres in the Bongara area of northern Peru (the "Bongara project).
In December 1996, Solitario signed an agreement regarding the Bongara project with a subsidiary of Cominco. The agreement was modified in January 1999, increasing the joint venture's acreage, which currently approximates 345,000 acres. Cominco has the right to earn a 65% interest in the Bongara project by spending a minimum of $17,000,000 over a five year period which commenced in January 1999, on exploration and development (in addition to the approximately $10 million spent prior to January 1999)and by making annual cash payments of between $100,000 and $500,000 per year (depending on the price of zinc) to Solitario as well as fully funding the project through a positive feasibility study. Cash payments of $118,000, $118,000, and $354,000 have been paid by Cominco in January 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. In addition to the cash payments and work commitments, Cominco has agreed to finance Solitario's share of project development costs, subject to repayment, after a production decision is made, should Solitario not secure third-party financing. Through December 31, 1999, Cominco has spent approximately $13 million on exploration at the Bongara project.
Location. The Bongara project is situated approximately 225 miles by paved and gravel roads from the port city of Chiclayo to the southwest, in northern Peru. Most of the property lies within ten miles of a paved road with access to the coast. Travel within the project area is accomplished by foot or horseback or helicopter. The property falls on the east slope of the Andes at an average elevation of 5,000 feet.
Geology and Exploration. The property is underlain by northwest-trending Jurassic-Cretaceous-age carbonates, fine to coarse clastic sediments, and shales. Mapping conducted by Cominco indicates that zinc mineralization occurs within carbonate rock units in which limestone has been substantially altered to dolomite.
The primary focus of exploration has been at the Florida Canyon area of the Bongara project. Mineralization at Florida Canyon occurs primarily in the middle member of the Chambara Formation of the Pucara Group of Jurassic geologic age. The middle member of the Chambara is approximately 700 feet thick and contains several very favorable rock horizons that are preferentially mineralized. Vertical structures, which host zinc mineralization have acted as feeder structures to the stacked stratigraphic mineralized horizons.
Since 1997, Cominco has drilled 49 core holes at Florida Canyon totaling 47,200 feet. At Florida Canyon, the widest intersection of mineralization encountered to date averaged 12% zinc over 193 feet and the highest grade intersection averaged 27% zinc over 17 feet. Twelve other drill holes were located in other areas of the project.
Regional exploration has consisted of satellite imagery interpretation, stream sediment geochemistry, geologic mapping and stratigraphic analysis, detailed rock and soil geochemistry, and hand digging shallow prospect pits. Eighteen surface anomalies were evaluated in detail during 1998. Surface rock alteration and geochemistry of the Florida Canyon and nearby Tesoro Canyon prospect areas are very similar. These two prospects may merge into a larger mineralized system measuring approximately three miles long and two miles wide.
Yanacocha Gold Property, Cajamarca Department, Peru
General. The Yanacocha property, located in northern Peru, is comprised of one contiguous block of approximately 155,000 acres located in the Yanacocha gold and gold-copper district.
On February 3, 2000 Solitario announced an agreement with an affiliate of Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont") to sell its interest in its Yanacocha property for $6 million and a sliding scale net smelter return ("NSR") royalty that varies depending on the price of gold. In order to effect the transaction, Solitario has agreed to transfer all of the operating assets and liabilities, excluding its interest in Yanacocha, of its Peru operating subsidiary, Minera Los Tapados ("MLT"), to a new operating subsidiary, Minera Solitario Peru. Newmont will receive all of the outstanding shares of MLT for the cash consideration and subsequently deliver the NSR royalty to Solitario. Closing of the transaction is expected during the second quarter of 2000, pending the completion of due diligence and regulatory approval. The balance of Solitario's investment in the Yanacocha property, $178,000, has been reclassified to assets held for sale. Upon closing of the transaction, Solitario expects to record a pre-tax gain of approximately $5.8 million.
The property had been explored previously under joint venture with Placer Dome, Ltd; Rio Tinto, Ltd; and Barrick Gold Corporation.
Location. The Yanacocha gold district lies in northern Peru's Cajamarca Department, 15 miles north of the historic provincial capital city of Cajamarca (population: 100,000). The Yanacocha district is a one hour drive north of Cajamarca on paved and improved gravel roads. Elevations range from 9,000 feet at Cajamarca to 13,800 feet at the highest points in and around Yanacocha.
Geology and Exploration. The property is located contiguous to the north and west of South America's largest gold mine, Newmont Mining Company's ("Newmont") 51%-owned and operated Minera Yanacocha heap leach gold mine (1999 production of 1.7 million ounces of gold). Total proven and probable reserves at the Yanacocha mine have been reported by Newmont to be 32.9 million ounces of gold at the end of 1999. The Corona gold-copper porphyry deposit (four million ounces of gold and one billion pounds of copper) lies one mile north of Solitario's property position.
Geologically, the Yanacocha district is situated in Tertiary- age volcanic terrain which extends from Cajamarca to the Ecuadorian border, 225 miles to the north-northwest. The volcanic rocks are underlain by Cretaceous basement consisting of carbonate and quartzite sedimentary rocks intruded by Cretaceous or Tertiary-age porphyritic intrusives. The gold mineralization present at Newmont's Minera Yanacocha mine occurs within zones of silicified volcanic rocks and porphyritic intrusions.
Work conducted by Solitario and its partners has consisted of geological mapping, rock and stream sediment geochemical sampling, helicopter-borne geophysical surveying, ground induced-polarization surveying and core drilling.
Sapalache Gold Property, Piura region, Peru
General. The 43,000 acre Sapalache gold property (formerly called Shimbe) is located in the department of Piura in northern Peru ten miles from the Ecuadorian border. The property was staked in 1993 and 1997 by a third party on behalf of Solitario. The claims are currently being transferred to Solitario under the terms of a contract which requires no payments to the title holder. Under Peruvian law only citizens of Peru can stake claims within 30 miles of the border with neighboring countries. Transfer of title to Solitario is subject to approval by Presidential decree. This process is anticipated within one year. Solitario has the right to explore and exploit the minerals through contract with the title holder.
In July 1999, Solitario entered into a letter of intent with AngloGold which allows them to earn a 51% interest in the property. To earn their interest, AngloGold is required to spend a total of $6 million over four years, including the drilling 6,600 feet within sixteen months of signing.
Geology and Exploration. The Sapalache property consists of tertiary volcanic rocks which locally have irregular bodies and veins of quartz. Work to date has included stream sediment, soil and rock sampling and related geochemistry. Rock samples have returned assays of up to 0.3 ounces per ton of gold.
Soloco Zinc Property, Amazonas Region, Peru
General. In September 1997, Solitario entered into a lease and option to purchase agreement on the Soloco Property covering approximately 9,700 acres. The Soloco Property is located in the department of Amazonas. In October of 1998, the Solitario signed a joint venture with Billiton Exploration and Mining Peru B.V. ("Billiton"). Billiton completed seven core holes on the property totaling 3,300 feet during 1999. Although the drilling intersected oxide zinc mineralization, they decided not to proceed to the second year under the option agreement. Solitario wrote down its investment in the property and is not planning any further work on the property.
Santa Barbara Gold Property, Cerro de Pasco Region, Peru
General. In April 1997, Solitario entered into an agreement with RTZ Mining and Exploration ("RTZ") granting Solitario the right to earn a 60% interest in the Santa Barbara project. The property contains approximately 12,300 acres located 120 miles northeast of Lima, Peru in the Cerro de Pasco Region. Solitario dropped its option on the property and recorded a write-down during 1999 on its remaining costs in the property.
Exploration Expenditure Overview
During 1999, Crown conducted exploration activities on its properties incurring approximately $1.0 million in expenditures, including $0.6 million in South America. Several of Crown's properties are subject to leases and/or options to purchase. Crown's share of 1999 annual lease and rental obligations and option payments totaled $42,000 for properties it currently holds. Certain other mining claims and properties not subject to leases were acquired by Crown either by deed or were located by Crown. With respect to the claims and other properties acquired by deed or located by Crown, the obligation required to hold the claims is to pay ad valorem property taxes in the case of the patented mining claims and fee land, and annual rental fees in the case of the unpatented mining claims. See Considerations Related to Crown's Business.
(1) Represents Crown's estimated share of rentals and option payments in 2000 based upon existing joint venture or leasing arrangements. (This estimate does not include costs to be borne by other joint venturers.) (2) Crown will pay this amount if the Newmont transaction is not completed prior to June 30, 2000. Item 3.