ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ----------
RESERVES AND MINERAL DEPOSITS - -----------------------------
The following table shows gold reserves net to the Company at December 31, 1997:
Mineable Proven and Probable Reserves (1) -----------------------------------------
Ore Gold Grade Contained Gold (Millions of tons) (oz/ton) (000 ozs) ------------------ --------- --------------
Crown Jewel Project (2)(3) 3.820 0.185 707
(1) The information was provided by Battle Mountain, the Company's joint venture partner. The Company's proven and probable reserves are reported as mineable (extractable) ore reserves. Reserves do not reflect recovery losses in the milling process, but do include allowance for dilution of ore in the mining process. Reserves have been calculated based on a gold price of $350 per ounce. Metallurgical recovery of 88% was estimated.
(2) While Crown has 100% ownership of the Crown Jewel Project, 54% is subject to Battle Mountain's right to acquire an interest in the property under the terms of the Crown Jewel Venture Agreement ("Venture Agreement") and, therefore, these ounces have not been included above.
(3) In addition to the Company's 46% interest in the Crown Jewel Proven and Probable Reserves shown above are mineral resource deposits of 265,000 tons at a grade of 0.185 ounces of gold per ton.
In addition to the above, Crown has identified mineral deposits on the Cord Ranch, Kings Canyon, Manhattan and Bongara properties.
The following discussion summarizes the primary mining properties in which the Company has interests. Company management believes the properties described below are favorable for mineral development, although there is no assurance that any of the properties in which the Company has or may acquire an interest will be economically viable.
United States - -------------
The following map shows the location of the primary properties in which Crown has interests in the western United States.
[Insert Map of the western United States]
CROWN JEWEL PROJECT - -------------------
GENERAL. The Crown Jewel Project is a joint venture between the Company and Battle Mountain, located on an approximate 8,000-acre property 24 miles east of Oroville, Washington. The joint venture agreement provides for Battle Mountain to fully fund exploration and development costs through the commencement of commercial production to acquire its interest. No monies are repayable by Crown to Battle Mountain for the costs Battle Mountain incurs prior to commercial production. Battle Mountain is required to construct a facility to treat a minimum of 3,000 tons of ore per day.
Crown discovered the Crown Jewel gold deposit in 1988, and has expended approximately $3.3 million in land, acquisition and exploration costs through December 31, 1997. In March 1990, the Company signed an option letter agreement with Battle Mountain to form a joint venture. Upon grant of the option the Company received $5.0 million from Battle Mountain and an additional $5.0 million in January 1991 when the option was exercised. Shortly thereafter, the Company and Battle Mountain entered into a definitive joint venture agreement, which replaced the option letter agreement, giving Battle Mountain the right to earn 51% in the Crown Jewel deposit.
In May 1994, Crown and Battle Mountain reached an agreement resolving certain contractual issues related to the Crown Jewel Venture Agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, Battle Mountain paid to Crown $4,250,000 in cash plus 435,897 shares of Battle Mountain common stock (valued at $4,250,000) in exchange for (1) the right to earn an additional 3% (to 54%) in the first 1.6 million ounces of gold recovered from the Crown Jewel property and (2) release of Battle Mountain from its obligation to make any of the quarterly $1.0 million payments to Crown which might otherwise have become due because of startup delays on the project. Production after 1.6 million ounces of gold are recovered will be shared 51% by Battle Mountain and 49% by Crown. The Company does not anticipate receiving additional mineral property proceeds from Battle Mountain under the joint venture agreement.
GEOLOGY AND LAND. The Crown Jewel deposit occurs within a large skarn system formed at the southern contact of the Buckhorn Mountain Cretaceous-aged diorite-granodiorite pluton with Triassic-aged limestones and andesites. Both the skarn system and ore body are relatively tabular and flat-lying in geometry. The skarn system is compositionally zoned in relation to the intrusive pluton with gold mineralization both concordant and crosscutting to the various skarn assemblages.
The property is held by a combination of fee ownership, private mining leases with options to purchase, state mining leases, with the balance being unpatented mining claims. Royalties vary from 4%-5% net smelter return ("NSR") royalties on certain private parcels, however, the ore body as currently defined is not subject to royalties payable to any third party.
RESERVES. The following table summarizes the Crown Jewel reserves as of December 31, 1997, as provided by Battle Mountain :
All reserves are considered to be open-pit mineable. The proven/probable reserve was based on results from 765 drill holes totaling 307,038 feet. The trial pit design utilized a 0.044 ounce per ton ("opt") gold cut off grade, a waste to ore ratio of 11.0:1 and a metallurgical recovery factor of 88% for gold. The assumed economic parameters applied to the design included mining costs of $0.86 per ton of waste and ore. Processing costs were estimated at $9.88 per ton based on a 3,000 ton per day facility. A $350 gold price was used.
Based on the same cutoff grade and gold price, Battle Mountain has estimated that other mineral deposits of 576,000 tons at 0.185 opt gold (100% basis) also occur within the currently designed pit limits at Crown Jewel.
EXPLORATION. The Company began an exploration program at Crown Jewel in mid-1988 and by the end of 1989 had drilled approximately 200 holes on the property. Between March 1990 and December 1992, Battle Mountain drilled over 550 holes designed to both confirm and expand the known reserve. To date, only 500 acres of the approximate 2,000 acres of prospective skarn geology have been drill-tested.
FEASIBILITY STUDY. In March 1992, the results of an independent feasibility study commissioned by Battle Mountain were received by the Company. Based on these results, Battle Mountain announced its decision to proceed with development of the Crown Jewel gold deposit. The feasibility study confirmed Battle Mountain's previous reserve estimate. The feasibility study also estimated that approximately $40 million in capital would be required to fund the project through to commercial production. The study estimated direct cash production costs at $160 per ounce of gold produced. Based on current reserves, the study indicated an approximate eight-year mine life with production averaging 175,000 ounces (100% basis) of gold per year.
Further engineering and reserve studies by Battle Mountain since the feasibility study was completed have generally confirmed the overall operating cost estimates and mineable reserves of the original 1992 feasibility study. However, capital costs are now estimated at approximately $70 million to achieve commercial production. Battle Mountain will be responsible for funding capital costs.
PERMITTING AND DEVELOPMENT. Battle Mountain submitted its original Plan of Operations to the Washington State DOE and the USFS in January 1992. Several supplemental plans that further clarified or refined the proposed operational plans have been subsequently filed. The Draft Environmental Impact Statement was released in June 1995.
In February 1997, the FEIS was filed by the USFS and the DOE. The FEIS describes the environmental effects of the plan to construct and operate the Crown Jewel mine, and alternatives to that plan. Also, in February 1997, a favorable Record of Decision ("ROD") for the FEIS was filed by the USFS and the BLM. The ROD documents the decision by the USFS and BLM to select the mining alternative as presented in the FEIS. The alternative chosen by the USFS and the BLM was the Proponent's (Battle Mountain) Alternative as described in the FEIS and as modified by the ROD.
Several appeals by certain persons and special interest groups contesting the FEIS were filed with the USFS in 1997. In May of 1997, the USFS Deputy Regional Forester upheld the ROD to approve the Crown Jewel mine project, denying four appeals which had been filed in March 1997. In May 1997, an action was filed in U.S. District Court against the USFS appealing certain issues.
Most substantive permit applications necessary to begin construction have been filed with the various local, state and federal agencies and are undergoing review. As of February 1998, the Crown Jewel project has received positive permit decisions on 40 of 64, or 63%, of all the permits necessary for the project. In September 1997 an action was filed before the State of Washington Pollution Control Hearings Board ("PCHB"), a state administrative tribunal, challenging the FEIS and certain permit decisions. In March 1998, the PCHB excluded potential appeals on certain permits regarding water quality and wetlands permit applications.
Pending successful completion of the remaining permit applications, resolution of the legal and administrative challenges, and the absence of a prolonged injunction, construction of the Crown Jewel project could begin in the spring of 1999 and is forecast to take approximately 14 months. Potential delays due to the appeals process, permit process or litigation are difficult to quantify. See LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
FINANCING. In order to acquire its 54% interest in the project, Battle Mountain is currently funding all general property, exploration and development costs through the start of commercial production, including the construction of a mill facility capable of processing a minimum of 3,000 tons of ore per day. No monies are repayable by Crown to Battle Mountain for the costs incurred through the pre-commercial production stage. Crown will be required to fund its 46% share of production costs upon the start of commercial production. In the event that Battle Mountain is unable to proceed with the project and must relinquish its right to acquire a 54% interest, the Company would then make a decision to
either proceed with the project alone or seek a similar joint venture situation with another major mining company. There is no assurance that the Company could successfully pursue either strategy.
CORD RANCH PROJECT - ------------------
GENERAL. In 1989, the Company entered into an exploration and mining agreement with the surface and mineral rights owners of the 34,000-acre Cord Ranch located in Elko County, Nevada. The lease agreement was originally for a term of five years from August 31, 1989 and renewable thereafter.
Following several amendments, the lease no longer requires a work commitment beyond 1997. However, the agreement calls for non-recoupable minimum annual payments of $150,000 in each of 1998 and 1999 and recoupable annual advance royalty payments of $200,000 in 2000 and thereafter. Pursuant to the amended agreement, the Company may terminate the lease agreement at any time and avoid any future obligation or commitment, except reclamation.
Two property acquisitions immediately adjacent to the Cord Ranch were made in 1990. The Dixie Creek project, consisting of 1,240 acres, was acquired under agreements entered into in October 1990. At approximately the same time, the Pinon Range property, consisting of 640 acres of unpatented claims, was acquired.
In September 1994, Crown signed an agreement which has been assigned to a subsidiary of Royal Standard Minerals Inc. ("Royal Standard"). Royal Standard has the right to earn a 70% interest in Crown's Cord Ranch and adjacent gold properties. In order to vest in any of the Crown properties, Royal Standard must fulfill the terms of the Cord lease agreement, as amended, including the work commitment and property payments as specified. Royal Standard has reported it has fulfilled its work commitment as of December 31, 1997. In addition, should Royal Standard vest in the properties, it must provide Crown's share of expenditures through the completion of a favorable feasibility study, with such expenditures to be repaid from Crown's share of production from the properties.
GEOLOGY. The Cord Ranch properties lie on the east side of the Pinon Range and are situated on the Carlin gold trend, where nearly four million ounces of gold are produced annually. Paleozoic strata underlying the western parts of the property are the same formations hosting major deposits in other sections of the trend. The area has sustained multiple periods of deformation and structural preparation of the rocks is very good. Gold mineralization is generally associated with jasperoid rocks.
MINERAL DEPOSITS. To date, 418 drill holes have been completed on the Cord Ranch project. In early 1994, the Company estimated the size of two gold deposits, the Pinon Range and Dark Star deposits. Based on the results of 150 drill holes, the Pinon Range mineral deposit is estimated at 7.2 million tons containing 0.025 opt of gold at a cutoff grade of 0.013 opt of gold. At Dark Star, 61 drill holes completed by the Company during 1991-92 define a mineral deposit totaling 7.5 million tons grading 0.020 opt of
gold at a cutoff grade of 0.013 opt of gold. Combined, the Company and Royal Standard hold 50% of the mineral rights and 100% of the surface rights at Dark Star.
SNOWSTORM PROJECT - -----------------
GENERAL. The 5,400-acre Snowstorm property lies at the northwestern extension of the Carlin trend and the northeastern extension of the Getchell trend in northern Nevada. The property consists of approximately 2,400 acres of 100%-owned unpatented mining claims and 3,000 acres of leased fee property. The leased property carries a NSR royalty ranging from 3% to 5% depending upon the price of gold. In April 1997, Crown signed a Joint Venture Agreement allowing Romarco Minerals, Inc. ("Romarco") to earn a 60% interest in the project. Romarco must spend $2 million on exploration and make $275,000 in cash payments to Crown over a four-year period to earn its interest.
GEOLOGY AND EXPLORATION. The geology of the project area consists of Tertiary volcanic rocks that have undergone various degrees of hydrothermal alteration. During 1997, Romarco completed a 10-hole drilling program totaling 7,660 feet. Low grade mineralization of up to .040 opt gold over 35 feet was encountered in three holes. Follow-up drilling at depth is planned for 1998.
OTHER PROPERTY INTERESTS - ------------------------
KENDALL MINE ROYALTY. In September 1991, Crown acquired Judith Gold Corporation ("Judith"), whose primary asset is the Kendall property located near Lewiston, Montana. Crown issued approximately 306,000 shares of common stock in the transaction, representing 2.5% of Crown common stock then outstanding.
Canyon Resources Corporation ("Canyon") leases the Kendall property. Under an agreement entered into by Judith and Canyon in 1987, Crown is entitled to receive a 5% NSR royalty on production at the Kendall gold mine.
Mining of ore at the Kendall mine ceased at the end of 1994, with residual heap leach gold production continuing through 1996. The mine produced approximately 300,000 ounces of gold over its life, with Judith receiving the equivalent of approximately 15,000 ounces over that period. The Kendall mine is presently in reclamation.
LAMEFOOT MINE ROYALTY. In 1992, Crown acquired from various underlying lease holders a 0.75% NSR royalty interest in the Lamefoot deposit for an aggregate total of $306,000. This property lies approximately three miles from the Kettle River Project ("KRP") mill, operated by Echo Bay Mines Ltd. ("Echo Bay") in northeastern Washington state. Lamefoot ores represent the primary ore feed source to the KRP mill through 1999, according to Echo Bay. Crown received approximately $212,000 in royalties from Lamefoot during 1997. Crown expects to receive approximately $175,000 in royalties from Lamefoot during 1998.
KINGS CANYON. The Kings Canyon property in Utah consists of 5,123 acres of state leases. Crown holds a 100% interest in the property, subject to a 1-4% NSR royalty to third parties.
The Company estimates the Kings Canyon property hosts a mineral deposit that contains 6.8 million tons of material grading 0.030 opt of gold at a cutoff grade of 0.013 opt gold. The gold occurs as sediment-hosted disseminated mineralization in Paleozoic carbonate rocks.
In March 1995, Crown signed an agreement with Orion International Minerals Corporation, formerly Sway Resources, Inc., ("Orion") which gave Orion the right to earn a 51% interest in the property. To earn its interest, Orion was required to spend $3.0 million and pay Crown 200,000 shares of Orion stock of which 100,000 have been delivered. In December 1997, Orion canceled its option agreement and no longer has an interest in the property.
MANHATTAN. A 100% interest in the 540-acre Manhattan property in central Nevada was acquired in 1989. In November 1994, the Company signed a purchase option agreement with New Concept Mining, Inc. ("New Concept"), that allows New Concept to purchase 100% of the property by making a series of payments over a four and one-half year period totaling $500,000. Of that amount, $390,000 remains to be paid.
SOUTH PENN. During 1997, the Company terminated its leases on the mining claims and no longer maintains an interest in the property.
Peru - ----
The following map shows the location of the primary properties in which the Company has interests in South America.
[Insert Map of South America]
PERU - ----
BONGARA ZINC PROJECT, AMAZONAS DEPARTMENT, PERU - -----------------------------------------------
GENERAL. Pursuant to option agreements signed in 1993 (the "Bongara option") between the Company and a private Peruvian party, the Company obtained the right to acquire up to a thirty-year leasehold interest in the Bongara Claims 1-10 situated in northern Peru. The Bongara option area covered approximately 25,000 acres. During 1997, the Company relinquished its option rights under the agreement. Since 1993, the Company has acquired approximately 215,000 additional acres in the Bongara project by staking concessions.
In December 1996, Solitario signed an agreement with a subsidiary of Cominco regarding the Bongara project, presently covering approximately 215,000 acres. Cominco has the right to earn a 60% interest in the Bongara project by spending a minimum of $27,500,000 on exploration and development and by making cash payments of $1,800,000 to Solitario over a four-year period, as well as, fully funding the project through a bankable feasibility study. Cash payments of $250,000 and $300,000 have been paid by Cominco in January 1997 and January 1998, respectively. In addition to the cash payments and work commitments, Cominco has agreed to finance Solitario's share of project development costs, subject to repayment, after a production decision is made, should Solitario not secure third-party financing. Through December 31, 1997, Cominco has spent approximately $4.9 million on exploration of the Bongara project.
LOCATION. The Bongara project is situated approximately 350 kilometers by paved and gravel roads from the port city of Chiclayo to the southwest, in northern Peru. Most of the property lies within ten miles of a paved road with access to the coast. Travel within the project area is accomplished by foot or horseback. The property falls on the east slope of the Andes at an average elevation of 1,500 meters.
GEOLOGY AND EXPLORATION. The property is underlain by northwest-trending Jurassic-Cretaceous-age carbonates, fine to coarse clastic sediments, and shales. Mapping conducted by the Company indicates that zinc mineralization occurs within carbonate rock units in which limestone has been substantially altered to dolomite.
Mineralization at Florida Canyon occurs primarily in the middle member of the Chambara Formation of the Pucara Group of Jurassic geologic age. The middle member of the Chambara is approximately 700 feet thick and contains several very favorable rock horizons that are preferentially mineralized. Vertical structures, which can also host zinc mineralization act as feeder structures to the stacked stratigraphic mineralized horizons.
During 1997, 39 core holes were drilled on the Bongaraa project totaling 9,700 meters. Significant zinc mineralization was intersected in 21 of the 32 holes completed in the Florida Canyon prospect. Seven other drill holes were located at the Florcita
prospect where four holes intersected strong mineralization.
Regional exploration has consisted of satellite imagery interpretation, stream sediment geochemistry, geologic mapping and stratigraphic analysis, detailed rock and soil geochemistry, and hand digging shallow prospect pits. To date, approximately 3,000 stream sediment samples have been collected and analyzed. Ten strongly anomalous areas have been identified by this highly effective program resulting in the discovery of five new prospects exhibiting zinc sulfide mineralization. These prospects and geochemically anomalous areas are situated throughout the claim block. Zinc values in rock outcrops range from 1.0% zinc in disseminated concentrations to 10.0% zinc over widths ranging from 1.0 to 4.0 meters.
YANACOCHA GOLD PROPERTY, CAJAMARCA DEPARTMENT, PERU - ---------------------------------------------------
GENERAL. The Yanacocha property, located in northern Peru, is comprised of one contiguous block of approximately 155,000 acres located in the center of the Yanacocha district. A second smaller block of 10,000 acres is situated five miles to the northwest.
In April 1997, the Company signed an agreement with Rio Tinto, Ltd. giving Rio Tinto the right to earn a 60% interest in the property by spending $5 million over four years.
LOCATION. The Yanacocha Gold District lies in northern Peru's Cajamarca Department, 25 kilometers north of the historic provincial capital city of Cajamarca (population: 100,000). The Yanacocha district is a 1.5 hour drive north of Cajamarca on improved gravel roads. Elevations range from 2,800 meters at Cajamarca to 4,200 meters at the highest points in and around Yanacocha.
GEOLOGY AND EXPLORATION. The property is located one mile north of South America's largest gold mine (1996 production of 811,000 ounces of gold), Newmont Mining Company's ("Newmont") 51%-owned and operated Yanacocha heap leach gold mine. Total proven and probable reserves at the Yanacocha mine have been reported by Newmont to be more than 13.9 million ounces of gold at the end of 1997. The Corona gold-copper porphyry deposit (three million ounces of gold and one billion pounds of copper) lies one mile north of the Company's property position.
Geologically, the Yanacocha district is situated in Tertiary-age volcanic terrain which extends from Cajamarca to the Ecuadorian border, 350 kilometers to the north-northwest. The volcanic rocks are underlain by Cretaceous basement consisting of carbonate and quartzite sedimentary rocks intruded by Cretaceous or Tertiary-age porphyritic intrusives. The gold mineralization present at Newmont's Yanacocha mine occurs within zones of silicified volcanic rocks. The gold and copper mineralization at the Corona deposit occurs in a typical Andean- style gold-copper porphyry setting within an altered intrusive body.
Work conducted by Solitario and its partners has consisted of geological mapping, rock and stream sediment geochemical sampling, helicopter-borne geophysical surveying, ground induced-polarization surveying and core drilling.
Sixteen drill holes totaling approximately 6,900 feet have been completed by Solitario and Rio Tinto during the past 18 months. Three areas have been drill tested thus far. These are the Los Negritos, Shuito and Chalhuaquero gold prospects, all situated in the south eastern portion of the claim block. Drilling has thus far intersected anomalous gold values and strong alteration.
EL TIGRE GOLD PROPERTY, LAMBAYEQUE DEPARTMENT, PERU - ---------------------------------------------------
GENERAL. Solitario acquired an option to earn a 60% interest in the 18,000-acre El Tigre gold property in northern Peru from Britannia Gold Corp. ("Britannia") in April 1996. To earn its interest, Solitario must spend $900,000 on exploration and make $115,000 in cash payments to Britannia over a four-year period. Solitario has completed its first three years' work commitments.
GEOLOGY AND EXPLORATION. The property is underlain by Jurassic volcanic rocks that are intensely silicified in several locations. Surface work conducted during 1997 following drilling in 1996 delineated a copper system approximately 2.5 miles long and 0.8 miles wide within silicified rocks that contained anomalous gold values extending under a gravel pediment cover. The Company completed follow-up drilling in 1998 which did not extend the mineralization to allow it to be considered economic. No further work is planned on the property and the Company took a $512,000 write off as of December 31, 1997.
SANTA BARBARA GOLD PROPERTY, CERRO DE PASCO REGION, PERU - --------------------------------------------------------
GENERAL. In April 1997, the Company entered into an agreement with RTZ Mining and Exploration ("RTZ") granting Solitario the right to earn a 60% interest in the Santa Barbara project. The property contains approximately 12,300 acres located 120 miles northeast of Lima, Peru in the Cerro de Pasco Region. Solitario can earn its interest in the property by spending $1.5 million over a three-year period. No cash payments are required to be made to RTZ.
GEOLOGY AND EXPLORATION. Solitario completed 16 drill holes during 1997 totaling 9,200 feet. The two best holes intersected 512 feet grading 0.29% copper and 0.01 opt gold and 659 feet grading 0.38% copper and 0.01 opt gold.
LA CAPILLA, LA LIBERTAD DEPARTMENT, PERU - ----------------------------------------
During 1993, Solitario staked the majority of this property located in north central Peru encompassing approximately 10,000 acres. Solitario performed limited surface work through 1996 consisting of collecting soil and sediment samples and trenching. During 1997 Solitario completed a 13-hole drilling program totaling 6,520 feet. Although anomalous gold concentrations were
encountered in approximately half the drill holes, no economic mineralization was intersected. Based on these results, Solitario will not conduct further work on the property and took a $248,000 write off on the property during 1997.
ARGENTINA - ---------
Solitario made the decision to withdraw from exploration in Argentina to concentrate its attention and financial resources in Peru. Additionally, the current precious metals markets highlighted the need to focus exploration efforts on the best areas of mineral potential. As a result of this decision, the Company recorded a write-down of $3.8 million in December 1997. In early March 1998, the Company signed a letter of intent with Toscana Resources, Ltd. ("Toscana") of Vancouver, B.C., to sell all of the issued and outstanding shares of Solitario's Argentina subsidiary. The purchase price of Cdn$500,000 would be received in shares of Toscana. The transaction is subject to due diligence, Board of Directors and regulatory approval. Solitario also received a non- refundable binder payment of Cdn$65,000 upon signing the letter of intent.
LAS CARACHAS, SAN JUAN PROVINCE, ARGENTINA - ------------------------------------------
The 22,000 acre Las Carachas property, acquired in 1993, consisted of three 100%-owned exploration concessions. One of the concessions was acquired in early 1996 from Minas Argentinas, S.A., through an option grant to earn a 100% interest, subject to a 2% NSR royalty, by spending $1,000,000 over a four-year period. Limited work was performed on the property in 1997 and the property has been written off at December 31, 1997.
CANADA ONDA, SAN LUIS PROVINCE, ARGENTINA - -----------------------------------------
GENERAL. In August 1996, Solitario signed an agreement with a private Argentine party to earn a 75% interest in the 5,000-acre Canada Onda property in the Province of San Luis, Argentina. To earn its interest, Solitario must spend $1,000,000 in exploration and make $250,000 in payments over a five-year period. Solitario competed its first three years of work commitments and has renegotiated its agreement to require no additional payment in 1998.
GEOLOGY AND EXPLORATION. The property is underlain by Precambrian metamorphic rocks intruded by Tertiary alkalic rocks. Initial exploration work consisted of surface geologic mapping and geochemical sampling, followed by reverse circulation drilling, of which five holes totaling over 2,000 feet were completed. To date, the Company has completed a reverse circulation drilling program consisting of seventeen drill holes totaling 6,300 feet with the best three holes intersecting 6.6 feet grading 2.2 opt gold, 6.6 feet grading 0.48 opt gold and 6.6 feet grading 0.16 opt gold.
CERRO NEGRO, SAN JUAN PROVINCE, ARGENTINA - -----------------------------------------
No drilling was performed on this property in 1997 and efforts to joint venture the property have not been successful.
MEXICO - ------
During 1997, the Company, primarily through subcontractors, conducted exploration and reconnaissance activities in Mexico, focusing its efforts in the state of Durango. As a result of these activities the Company spent approximately $0.1 million and acquired the La Pitarrilla concession covering approximately 14,000 acres. The Company is planning additional exploration and reconnaissance work in Mexico during 1998.
EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE OVERVIEW - --------------------------------
During 1997, the Company conducted exploration activities on several of its properties incurring approximately $3.2 million in exploration expenditures, including $2.5 million in South America.
Several of the Company's properties are subject to leases and/or options to purchase. The Company's share of 1998 annual lease and rental obligations and option payments, for properties it currently holds, totals $60,000 as determined at December 31, 1997. Certain other mining claims and properties not subject to leases were acquired by the Company either by deed or were located by the Company. With respect to the claims and other properties acquired by deed or located by the Company, the obligation required to hold the claims is to pay ad valorem property taxes in the case of the patented mining claims and fee land, and annual rental fees in the case of the unpatented mining claims and concessions. See BUSINESS-TITLE.
1998 WORK COMMITMENTS ---------------------
The Company's work commitments remaining to be fulfilled in 1998 are $165,000, all of which are expected to be fulfilled by its joint venture partners. ANNUAL RENTALS --------------
(1) Represents the Company's estimated share of rentals and option payments in 1998, based upon existing joint venture or leasing arrangements. (This estimate does not include costs to be borne by other joint venturers.)
GLOSSARY OF MINING TERMS - ------------------------
COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION. Commercial production is defined in various ways in mineral joint ventures and mineral leases. The term generally refers to the first continuous production from a mining operation at or near the designed capacity of the facilities, for a period of one or more months, signifying the end of the development phase and the beginning of the mining phase of the operations.
PATENTED MINING CLAIM. Patented mining claim means a lode or placer mining claim for which the United States has conveyed fee title to the claim holder pursuant to the Mining Law of 1872. To obtain fee title, the claimant must prove the existence of a valuable mineral deposit within the boundaries of the claim and meet certain other conditions.
UNPATENTED MINING CLAIM. Unpatented mining claim means a claim to a valuable mineral deposit established by a company or individual on land owned by the United States, under the Mining Law of 1872, giving the owner the possessory right to develop and mine the mineral deposit. The term also includes non- mineral millsites located pursuant to the Mining Law of 1872. Paramount title to the land is owned by the United States.
LODE CLAIM. Lode claims have a maximum size of 1,500 feet by 600 feet and may be established on veins or other mineralization in solid rock. The holder of each unpatented mining claim must pay a "claim maintenance fee" of $100 per claim on or before August 31 of each year through 1998. To locate new unpatented claims, the locator must pay a $100 per claim maintenance fee for the initial assessment year and a $25 per claim location fee. Until a valuable mineral deposit has been demonstrated to exist within an unpatented mining claim, the claim may be subject to challenge by third parties or by the United States.
PROVEN ORE RESERVES. That part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve estimation. Proven ore reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
PROBABLE ORE RESERVES. That part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve estimation. Probable ore reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced.
The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
MINERAL DEPOSIT. Mineral deposit means a mineralized body which has been physically delineated by drilling, underground tunneling, surface trenching and other workings and has been found to contain mineralized material with sufficient tonnage and grade to warrant further evaluation. Such a mineralized body is not known to contain proven or probable ore reserves because sampling is not yet sufficiently detailed to reliably predict that the mineralized rock can be economically and legally mined. Any statement of the quantity of gold or other mineral believed to be present in any mineral deposit should be regarded as a preliminary estimate of the total quantity of the mineral present in the mineralized body, subject to change after further exploration and development work, and does not indicate that such quantity of mineral can be economically extracted.
FEASIBILITY STUDY. A definitive engineering estimate or calculation of all costs, revenues, equipment needs and production likely to be achieved when a mine is developed. The study is used to define the economic viability of a project and to support the search for project financing.
NET SMELTER RETURN ROYALTY. Net smelter return royalty is a royalty, payable in cash or in-kind, based on the actual gold sales price received or gold produced less the cost of refining at an off-site refinery.
ITEM 3.