ITEM 2: PROPERTIES
Reference hereafter, is occasionally made to sulfide or oxide ore deposits. Sulfide ores are mineralized rock in which much of the gold is contained in sulfide. Such sulfide ore deposits are generally mined and processed by means of crushing the ore into fine particles and floating the particles in a solution to separate the gold. This process is capital intensive and often not an economic means of processing lower grade ore bodies.
Oxide ore deposits are sulfide deposits that have been oxidized. Unlike sulfide deposits, gold can be extracted from oxide deposits through the use of cyanide heap leaching solutions. Because cyanide heap leaching is generally a less expensive process than crushing and floating sulfide ores, lower grade ore bodies can be more economically mined. For this reason, Dakota has incurred costs to investigate methods of treating sulfide deposits to render them amenable to cyanide leaching processing. See "Properties - Gilt Edge Mine - Sulfide Deposit." Each ore body has unique metallurgical characteristics, and oxide and sulfide ores are commonly intermingled.
Gilt Edge Mine. Gilt Edge Mine is a year round open pit heap leaching operation. The following table sets forth certain historical production information for Gilt Edge Mine:
General. Dakota owns 100% of Gilt Edge Mine. Gilt Edge Mine is located near Deadwood, South Dakota, approximately 40 miles from Rapid City, South Dakota, where there is scheduled commercial airline service. Access to the property is from Highway 385 on a secondary road maintained by the county. Gilt Edge Mine is located within the Black Hills National Forest on private land that is leased from various unaffiliated third parties. Unless production is continuing or the leases are otherwise extended, such leases expire at various times through 2012. The property consists of 308 patented and 323 unpatented claims covering approximately 7,725 acres.
Ownership of the mineral rights under certain lease agreements is transferable to Dakota upon payment of an aggregate of $3.67 million, of which $1.3 million has been paid to date. Current production royalties of approximately 2% with annual minimum royalty payments of approximately $228,200 are paid to parties dealing at arm's length with Dakota. All current production royalty payments are applied to the $3.67 million lease buy-out price noted above.
Pursuant to an agreement between Dakota and Repadre International Corporation ("Repadre") dated March 8, 1995, Repadre has a 1-3/4% royalty interest in certain properties and a 3/4% royalty interest in the other properties at Gilt Edge Mine in consideration for having made a credit facility available to Dakota. These royalties are in addition to the 2% production royalties described above.
All mining, hauling and road maintenance at Gilt Edge Mine is performed by a mining contractor.
Conventional open-pit mining methods are used with ores processed through a heap-leach processing facility. The Gilt Edge Mine site includes one planned open-pit mine known as Anchor Hill and two historic open-pit mines, a 7,000 ton per day crushing plant, a 14 acre heap leach pad, a 1,000 gallon per minute Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation processing plant, solution storage facilities and ancillary facilities including two water treatment processing plants, laboratory, warehouse, pump house, maintenance shops, and administrative buildings. The plant and equipment are in good condition and are adequately maintained.
Anchor Hill Oxide Deposit. As of January 1996, Dakota had obtained all requisite state and county permits required for the initial development of the Anchor Hill oxide deposit. Gold production from this deposit commenced in April 1996. Based on presently established proven and probable reserves and planned mining rates, the Anchor Hill deposit will produce gold for approximately three years. Dakota is also conducting site exploration and development drilling activities in order to enlarge the presently known oxide reserves. Refer to "Reserves" below. Several promising targets have been identified and gold mineralizations have been confirmed. Dakota expects to expend approximately $500,000 per year over the next three years in connection with this program.
Sulfide Deposit. Since 1989, Dakota has been evaluating the possibility of mining the large sulfide deposit which has been fully delineated and lies directly beneath the two open pits which were mined prior to 1992.
In September 1992, following laboratory tests conducted by Dakota on mineralization from Gilt Edge Mine showing that the sulfide mineralization responded to conventional cyanide leaching, a bulk heap leach test of the material was instituted. A 42,000 ton bulk sample of the material was crushed to a minus 1/4 inch in size and was subjected to conventional heap leach procedures. The bulk test was concluded in November 1993 after 383 days of leaching with actual gold recoveries at 49.4%. Extrapolated gold recoveries after two full years of leaching were calculated to be in excess of 61%.
Based upon the bulk test results, Dakota commissioned two studies to evaluate the commercialization of this large gold resource, including an estimate of future capital costs and utilization of bio-oxidation processes to treat sulfide ores at Gilt Edge.
One study was undertaken to substantiate the economic viability of utilizing a heap leach facility to process certain sulfide gold bearing material at Gilt Edge Mine using the results obtained from the large scale bulk test noted above. However, management of Dakota has not yet concluded that such a facility will be constructed in the near future. Rather, Dakota is continuing to evaluate alternatives which, if successful, could further enhance Gilt Edge Mine by allowing Dakota to process a greater portion of the known sulfide deposit. Such alternatives include investigation of a pre-treatment process, including bio-oxidation of sulfide ores prior to cyanidation leaching as described below, and conventional mill grinding of ores.
To date Dakota has spent approximately $717,600 on studying the feasibility of the bio-oxidation process at Gilt Edge. Results gathered to date are encouraging and indicate that for each 1% increase in oxidation there is a corresponding approximately 1% increase in recovery. Due to the promising results to date in exploring for additional oxide reserves at Gilt Edge Mine, Dakota has refocused its efforts to expanding its oxide reserves as noted above. Accordingly, no significant expenditures are contemplated in the next year to further develop these sulfide resources.
Geology. Mineralized deposits covered by Gilt Edge Mine properties are associated with an early Tertiary alkalic igneous complex. Multiple stock, dike and sill intrusions, comprised of alkalic trachyte porphyries, have been emplaced into Precambrian metamorphic and Cambrian sedimentary basement rocks along major northeast and northwest trending fracture zones. Gold mineralization is disseminated within the porphyritic intrusions and concentrated within fracture and breccia zones cross cutting all rock types. In addition, gold mineralization as replacement stratiform or manto type bodies, occurs within favorable (chemically reactive) strata of the flat lying Cambrian sedimentary rocks.
Exploration. There is exploration potential for other oxide and sulphide gold deposits on the Gilt Edge Mine properties. Most of the potential oxide tonnages are in small "pockets" (relative to the much more extensive sulphide mineralization) that could prolong mine life to the point that development of sulphide gold deposits takes place. The Anchor Hill oxide deposit, from which production commenced in 1996, remains as the largest oxide deposit defined to date. In addition, the Southeast Langley oxide deposit, which will compliment Anchor Hill production in 1997, will require additional drilling to fully delineate the reserves in that area. Finally, 1996 exploration drilling intersected significant mineralized intervals in two exploration targets not drilled previously. These areas (Ruby Ridge and West Anchor) are directly adjacent to existing mine and operating facilities and no resource estimate has been calculated for these areas.
Additional drilling in 1997 will be completed in the Southeast Langley and the two new areas to fully assess the reserve potential. Field geochemical work and mapping has identified at least two additional areas which will be drilled for the first time in 1997.
Reserves. The table below sets forth the permitted in-place proven and probable oxide reserves at Gilt Edge Mine as of December 1, 1996; as audited by DMBW, Inc., independent professional geological consultants ("DMBW"):
Permitting and Environmental Matters. Dakota has obtained all of the requisite state and county permits that are required for the development of the Anchor Hill oxide deposit. However, the ultimate open pit design contemplates a disturbance of approximately 37 acres of U.S. National Forest Service lands principally for pit wall layback. Accordingly, Dakota must finalize an ongoing Environmental Impact Statement (the "Gilt Edge Mine EIS") to develop the ultimate open pit mine design. The Gilt Edge Mine EIS, which has been underway since January 1994, is expected to be finalized in May 1997. Assuming the Gilt Edge Mine EIS is completed on a timely basis, no disruption to mining operations is expected in 1997. To date, Dakota has expended $151,409 for the Gilt Edge Mine EIS and expects to spend an additional $58,000 in 1997 for a total expenditure of $209,409 through to its completion.
On February 21, 1997, Gilt Edge Mine received a draft Notice of Violation ("NOV") from the State of South Dakota regarding an unauthorized discharge of approximately 5,500 gallons of mine water due to an equipment failure. Gilt Edge Mine had previously reported the discharge which occurred in November 1996. The NOV requests a fine of $5,400 and that Dakota increase its efforts to properly treat and discharge excess mine waters presently stored at the minesite. Dakota is presently assessing the nature and extent of the requested additional water treatment procedures requested by the State of South Dakota and cannot presently determine what incremental costs, if any, that it may likely incur as a result of the NOV.
Reference is also made to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation -- Environmental Matters and Government Regulation."
Severance Tax. Production from Gilt Edge Mine is subject to severance taxes payable to the State of South Dakota at the rate of $4.00 per ounce of gold produced together with a defined net profit tax of 10%.
Golden Reward Mine . Golden Reward Mine is a year round open pit heap leaching operation. The following table sets forth certain historical production information for Golden Reward Mine:
General. Golden Reward Mine is situated within the historic Ruby Basin Mining District in the northern Black Hills, approximately four miles southwest of Lead, South Dakota. Access to the mine is from Highway 85 via the paved Fantail Gulch Road. The property leased by Golden Reward L.P. comprises approximately 6,450 acres of land consisting of 426 patented and 194 unpatented claims. All present and immediate future activities are on patented lands leased from third parties. The leases require annual minimum payments of $400,000 ($160,000 for Dakota's account) with royalty rates ranging from 1% to 5%.
Dakota has a 40% interest in Golden Reward Mine. From inception of the project through February 27, 1992, Dakota's ownership interest in Golden Reward Mine was 33-1/3%. Dakota's ownership interest in Golden Reward Mine was adjusted from 33-1/3% to 54% effective February 28, 1992 as a result of a former joint venture partner's failure to pay certain cash call obligations that were in default. On October 8, 1992, Dakota acquired that joint venture partner's remaining interest in the assets of Golden Reward Mine. Immediately upon attaining a 100% ownership interest in Golden Reward Mine, Dakota sold a 60% ownership interest in Golden Reward Mine to Wharf Resources, Ltd. ("Wharf") of Toronto, Ontario. Thereafter, Wharf and Dakota contributed their respective ownership interests into a newly formed limited partnership, Golden Reward Mining Company, L.P. ("Golden Reward L.P."). The limited partnership is governed by a partnership agreement dated October 8, 1992.
The mine has exhausted all of its presently permitted mineral reserves. Present activities pertain only to care and maintenance which costs are minimal to Dakota. Future mining activities, if any, are dependent upon Golden Reward L.P. acquiring certain land surface rights and new operating permits. No assurance can be given that Golden Reward L.P. will be successful in its endeavors.
Operations. Mining at Golden Reward Mine takes place in satellite pits using conventional open-pit mining methods. Ore and waste is drilled and blasted and then the ore is trucked to the crusher. The ore is crushed to a nominal 5/8 inch product, and is transported by conveyor to a rail mounted stacker which loads the ore on to the "on/off" leach pad. This consists of 12 cells each capable of holding 50,000 tons of ore. Gold extraction from the solution is by means of Merrill-Crowe recovery plant. All facilities are in excellent condition and well maintained.
Geology. Golden Reward Mine is located in the Black Hills igneous intrusive belt, an east-west trend of Eocene Age with intrusive activity being 70 miles in length. These igneous rocks are typically alkalic and are generally porphyritic in texture with Tertiary porphyry the most volumetrically significant intrusive rock in the area. All intrusive rock types at Golden Reward Mine host gold mineralization. The tertiary intrusive rocks consist of porphyritic dykes, sills and dyke-sill complexes. These dykes typically occur along high-angle structures or schistocyte planes in the steeply inclined Precambrian rocks. The sills within the Deadwood Formation, the dominant exposed sedimentary rock, usually follow bedding planes or shale horizons. Mineralization occurs in fracture zones radiating from these igneous-sedimentary contacts.
Historically, gold production at Golden Reward Mine has come from high-angle structures or "verticals" and associated replacements within the dolomitic rocks of the Cambrian Deadwood Formation. The majority of the mineralization at the present operation is oxide and occurs in the nearly flat lying Cambrian Deadwood Formation.
Ski Area. Golden Reward Mine is located next to the Terry Peak Ski Area, a regionally popular Winter recreation site. Due to the sensitive nature of this area to recreational activities, Golden Reward L.P. has instituted a reclamation planning project for the area, which includes sequentially mining the various areas and reclaiming the areas which were previously mined as new mine areas are opened. Golden Reward L.P. owns a 31% interest in the ski area for which it paid $1.3 million in 1986. A new lodge was constructed and new snow making equipment installed in 1989 and the project is now self-sufficient. The operations of the Terry Peak Ski Area are not material to the operations of Golden Reward L.P. The cost of the investment has been accounted for as part of the cost of the property and is being amortized over the life of the Golden Reward Mine.
Reserves and Mineralized Deposits. Shown below are the proven and probable in-place oxide ore reserves and other oxide mineralized deposits of Golden Reward Mine (100% interest) as of December 31, 1996 as prepared on January 30, 1997 by Glenn R. Clark, an independent professional engineer (the "Clark Ore Reserve Report").
Certain third party surface rights or facilities encumber the development of 1.57 million tons of permitted proven and probable reserves at an average grade of 0.052 ounces of gold per ton, or 81,640 ounces of gold, all non-permitted proven and probable reserves and non-permitted defined mineral deposits. In order to access such additional reserves and mineralized deposits, Golden Reward L.P. will be required to relocate its existing crusher facility and reduce its leach pad capacity by approximately 25% or to acquire or otherwise compensate third parties to acquire or remove their facilities. At the present time, Golden Reward Mine is not actively pursuing the removal of said encumbrances.
The known reserves and defined mineral deposits at Golden Reward Mine are on patented or private lands and would not be subject to a U.S. federal royalty should the U.S. Congress enact a requirement for such a royalty.
Exploration. Potential exists for Golden Reward Mine to increase its ore reserves. The development effort has focused on those surface ore deposits which are amenable to open-pit mining, however, potential also exists for underground deposits which have yet to be evaluated. Golden Reward L.P. has not yet determined that such underground deposits, if any, could economically be developed.
Other Matters. Dakota and Wharf have disagreed regarding certain operational and financial matters for the Golden Reward Mine, including planned future operations and related funding requirements. The resolution of these matter is not presently determinable.
Severance Taxes. Golden Reward Mine is subject to a severance tax of $4.00 per ounce of gold produced and 10% of net profits as levied by the State of South Dakota.
Stibnite Mine. Stibnite Mine is a seasonal open pit heap leach operation with potential for future expansion of existing oxide production.
Stibnite Mine recommenced operations in August 1995 after being placed on stand-by for substantially all of 1993 and for 1994 while awaiting operating permits. In July 1995, Stibnite Mine received all requisite operating permits to recommence mining and processing activities and now has all requisite permits to continue operations throughout 1996. See "Stibnite Mine Permitting and Environmental Matters." The following table sets forth certain historical production information concerning Stibnite Mine.
General. Dakota's original 50% interest in Stibnite Mine was acquired in 1986 from Pioneer Metals Corporation. In 1991, Dakota acquired the remaining 50% interest in Stibnite Mine from Pegasus Gold.
Stibnite Mine is located in central Idaho's Salmon River Mountains in Valley County, approximately 15 miles east of the town of Yellow Pine. Access is by secondary road from State Highway 55. A landing strip suitable for light aircraft also exists on the property. The property comprises thirty patented claims, 28 patented millsites and 487 unpatented mining claims covering 8,028 acres leased from third parties. This land surrounds the Yellow Pine Mine owned by Hecla Mining Company ("Hecla").
The leases generally require production royalties that range from 5% up to 6%. Two leases cover the majority of the production or targeted areas on the property and will expire in the years 2005 through 2010. The leases require advance minimum royalties of approximately $92,500 per year.
Operations.
Stibnite Mine is a seasonal, heap leach operation with mining activity generally occurring from May through November. Conventional drill-blast-load-haul methods are used. The ore is then crushed into pieces less than one inch in diameter and deposited on leach pads for dilute cyanide treatment. Gold and silver are recovered from the solution in a carbon absorption plant with the barren ore being rinsed, neutralized and removed from the pads. All facilities and equipment are in good condition and are adequately maintained.
All mining, hauling, crushing and road maintenance is performed by a mining contractor. Dakota and contractor personnel are housed on-site in both company and privately owned trailers. Additional permanent living quarters and mess hall facilities are provided at the site by Dakota.
Geology. The Stibnite Mine district lies in the east-central margin of the Idaho Batholith. Quartz-monzonite and aplite dikes of this Cretaceous intrusive complex are the most common rock-type in this area. Precambrian metasediments of the Belt Series are also present. The sediments are composed of quartzite, schist, conglomerate, calc silicate hornfels and marble. The sediments form part of a large roof pendent with the contained sedimentary formations, generally striking in a northwesterly direction and dipping to the northeast.
North-to-northeasterly trending faulting is strongly developed in the area, with three major northeast striking faults identified.
Gold occurs in fractures and quartz veining mainly in metasediments, closely associated with pyrite, marcasite, pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite and arsenopyrite which has been oxidized near the surface. Brecciated quartzite is the most common rock. The gold bearing oxide zones currently mined are generally underlain by deeper gold bearing sulfide zones.
Exploration. During 1996, Dakota entered into an agreement with Hecla to develop the sulfide potential in the Stibnite district. Dakota and Hecla each hold 50% of the unitized mineral interest. Under the terms of the agreement, the parties are actively seeking a third party mining company to develop the resource. Dakota's oxide heap leach operations and resources are not to be a part of the unitized assets.
Modest exploration programs have been conducted over the past several years, principally within three target areas. Drilling results to date have produced encouraging results. These three mineralized areas will be the subject of a continuing drill program in 1997 when it is anticipated that the mineralization and extent of the deposits will be defined in order to increase mineable reserves. In addition, soil and stream geochemical sampling and modest geophysical work are planned for the coming year. Dakota expects to expend approximately $531,000 in 1997 for exploration.
The Stibnite Mine district has good potential to host significant oxide and sulfide gold deposits. However, due to severe cash limitations in the past few years, exploration efforts have been restricted to oxides and to the needs of short term mine feed. A focused sulfide drilling program could enhance this resource.
A particular opportunity exists at Stibnite Mine due to its strategic land position surrounding the Yellow Pine sulfide deposit owned by Hecla. Yellow Pine is undeveloped and reported by Hecla to contain approximately 20 million tons of refractory sulfide material or approximately two to three million ounces of gold. The potential to define additional sulfide material exists primarily on Stibnite Mine lands. Furthermore, should the Yellow Pine deposit be developed at some future date, Stibnite Mine lands may be essential for pit layback, mill site, waste and tailing disposal.
Reserves and Defined Mineralized Deposits. An independent audit conducted by DMBW confirmed reserves as of January 1, 1997 as follows:
Dakota has also identified other mineralized oxide material outside of the current reserves of approximately 5.68 million ore tons at an average grade of .032 opt gold.
In addition to the defined mineralized oxide material above, Dakota's engineering staff has also located on the property refractory sulfide material of approximately 5.0 million tons at a grade of 0.061 ounces of gold per ton located throughout the property.
Of the total known mineralization, only the mineralized material in the West End Pit, and mineralized material (sulfide) at the Yellow Pine, Homestake and Meadow Creek Mines are located on patented or private lands. All other known mineralization is on unpatented claims, which could be adversely affected in the event certain proposed changes in mining laws in the United States are enacted. See "Business Conditions-Proposed Changes in Mining Laws."
Permitting and Environmental Matters. Since early 1992, Dakota has been in the process of preparing an Environmental Impact Statement (the "Stibnite Mine EIS") to expand its mining operations. Dakota does not expect that the Stibnite Mine EIS will be finalized until fall 1997. However, operations planned for 1997 are not affected by the EIS.
Reference is made to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters and Government Regulations."
ITEM 3: