ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Summit Silver-Gold Project
Overview
Santa Fe Gold acquired the Summit silver-gold project in May 2006. The project includes the underground Summit silver-gold mine and related property consisting of 117 acres of patented mining claims and 740 acres of unpatented mining claims in Grant County, southwestern New Mexico; and the Banner mill, including mineral processing equipment consisting of a crushing and screening plant, a ball mill and a 400 ton-per-day flotation plant, and related property consisting of approximately 1,500 acres of wholly owned and leased patented and unpatented mining claims, located approximately 57 miles south of the Summit mine near Lordsburg, Hidalgo County, New Mexico. The Summit project is owned by The Lordsburg Mining Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Construction of the Banner mill and development of the Summit mine have been the focus of our activities since 2008. In April 2007, Santa Fe received results of an engineering study that concluded the Summit deposit could form the basis of an economically viable underground mining operation. In December 2007, Santa Fe arranged financing of $13.5 million by way of a private placement of senior secured convertible debentures and began construction activities during 2008, including development of the Summit underground mine and construction of the Banner mill. Mineralized material generated in the process of developing the mine was stockpiled for later processing. Construction of the Banner mill was completed in mid-2009 and construction of the tailings disposal impoundment was completed in early 2010. Processing operations at the Banner mill commenced in April 2010. Trial sales of mineralized material as silica flux commenced in the second quarter of 2010 and trial sales of precious metals flotation concentrate began in the third quarter of 2010. Mine development and limited production was on-going through November 8, 2013, at which time the operations were suspended due to a lack of operating capital. The Summit mine and Banner mill operations remain suspended pending placement of sufficient funds to restart development and bring the operation to full and sustained production. Permitting, regulatory reporting and limited care and maintenance have continued to maintain operational viability of the mine and mill facilities. Prior to suspension of operations, 575 new feet of drift were constructed during our fiscal year ending June 30,2014, for a total of about 16,295 feet of mine openings developed in the Summit mine since project inception.
The Summit mining and processing operation involved underground mining of silver and gold-bearing material from the Summit mine and trucking it 57 miles to the Banner mill site where metallurgical processing takes place. At full production, mining was planned to be carried out at a rate of 12,000 tons per month (144,000 tons per year). At the Banner site, processing is accomplished through conventional crushing, grinding and selective flotation to yield a bulk sulfide concentrate containing the recoverable precious metals.
Santa Fe markets concentrate under sales contracts to a German smelter and a Korean smelter, and explored other marketing options. It also produced siliceous flux material, involving crushing and screening of Summit mineralized material, and then shipping of the resulting beneficiated product to copper smelters for use as smelter converter flux. Santa Fe sold siliceous flux material to two Arizona smelters in 2014 and 2013. Sales of siliceous flux material are in addition to sales of concentrate produced at the Banner mill.
Location and Access
The Summit silver-gold property is located in a rugged and isolated setting in Grant County, southwestern New Mexico, near the Arizona state line. The property lies within the Steeple Rock Mining District, which has recorded notable historic production of gold, silver, base metals and fluorspar from several mines, currently inoperative, including Carlisle, East Camp and Norman King.
The property is accessible by paved and gravel road approximately 15 miles northeast from Arizona State Highway 75N and the town of Duncan, Arizona. Electric power is not available on or near the property and is generated on-site in connection with the Summit mining operation. Water for limited usage is available on and near the property.
The terrain of the property is rugged, with steep canyons and ridges. Elevations range from 4,500 feet to 6,200 feet above sea level. The Summit siliceous mineralized structure forms a prominent northwesterly trending ridge.
The Banner mill site lies 57 miles to the south of the Summit property near the town of Lordsburg, Hidalgo County, New Mexico. Lordsburg is connected to Duncan, Arizona via US Highway 70. The Banner mill site is accessible from Lordsburg by a 4-mile paved road. Utilities on site include water and electric power. The Lordsburg area is well supported by transportation services including trucking and rail services, and by a wide range of fabrication, construction and other support services. The labor force required for the plant operation is sourced locally.
Figure 2.1
Location Map
Mineral Title
Santa Fe’s holdings at the Summit silver-gold property in Grant County, New Mexico consist of 10 patented federal mining claims totaling approximately 117 acres and 62 unpatented federal mining claims totaling approximately 740 acres. Santa Fe’s holdings at and adjacent to the Banner mill site in Hidalgo County, New Mexico consist of 86 wholly-owned patented federal mining claims, 16 wholly-owned unpatented mining claims, 17 leased patented mining claims and 6 leased unpatented mining claims, aggregating approximately 1,500 acres. All wholly-owned claims are held in the name of The Lordsburg Mining Company. The unpatented mining claims are located on public land and held pursuant to the General Mining Law of 1872. Santa Fe fully owns the mining rights and believes the claims are in good standing in accordance with the mining laws of the United States.
In order to maintain its claims in good standing, for its patented mining claims Santa Fe must pay annual property taxes to Grant and Hidalgo Counties, and for its unpatented mining claims Santa Fe must pay annual assessment fees to the Bureau of Land Management and record the payment of rental fees with Grant and Hidalgo Counties. Annual assessment and recording costs for its unpatented claims total approximately $13,400. Santa Fe has paid the required assessment fees for the 2014 and 2015 assessment years (September 1, 2013 through August 31, 2015). Currently we are in arrears on these property taxes for the patented mining claims..
The Summit property is subject to underlying net smelter return royalties capped at $4,000,000 and to a net-proceeds interest on sales of unbeneficiated mineralized rock with an end price of $2,400,000. The Summit acquisition is subject to a property identification royalty agreement between Santa Fe and its former President and Chief Executive Officer. See Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”.
History of Mining and Exploration
The Summit silver-gold property lies within the Steeple Rock district, which is one of the historic mining areas in the southwest United States. The former mines produced gold, silver and base metals from underground mining of epithermal vein systems. Prospecting activity dates back to before mineralized material 1860. The first recorded production was from the Carlisle property, which operated from 1880-1897. A number of other mines including the Norman King and Billali also opened up during the 1880’s but ceased operation by the turn of the century. Following this early production, the district was largely dormant until the 1930’s-mid 1940’s when several mines operated. Subsequently sporadic small-scale operations continued until the 1990’s on various deposits including the Summit, Center, Mount Royal and Carlisle deposits.
The US Bureau of Mines estimated that between 1880 and 1986 the Steeple Rock district produced at least 148,000 ounces of gold, 3.3 million ounces of silver, 1.2 million pounds of copper, and 5 million pounds of lead and 4 million pounds of zinc. In addition, there was unrecorded precious and base metal production as part of silica flux shipments. Some 6,500 tons of fluorspar also were produced.
In the late 1970’s, Summit Minerals Inc. is reported to have shipped about 30,000 tons of mineralized material from the Summit property to ASARCO’s El Paso smelter as direct shipping silica flux grading 0.102 ounces per ton gold and 4.95 ounces per ton silver.
Exploration work estimated to have cost in excess of $8.0 million was carried out on the Summit silver-gold property from 1984-1992. This work included drilling totaling 104,700 feet on the Summit and adjacent structures, of which 78,000 feet was directed to the Summit structure. In 1984-85, Inspiration Mines Inc. reportedly spent about $1.5 million conducting underground development, shallow core drilling and sampling and mapping. In 1988-89, Novagold Resources Inc. reportedly expended approximately $2.0 million in surface and airborne geophysical surveys, underground mapping and sampling, and core drilling. Novagold’s drilling identified a significant block of mineralized material in the Summit vein. From 1989-1992, Biron Bay Resources Ltd., in joint venture with Novagold, conducted extensive exploration, drilled 88 core holes, and reportedly spent over $5.0 million extending and improving the level of confidence in the mineralized material at the Summit vein and in defining exploration potential in adjacent and outlying vein structures.
Geology and Mineralization
The Steeple Rock district contains numerous structurally controlled epithermal vein systems. The veins are controlled by conjugate fault systems that cut a thick pile of Tertiary volcanic rocks of intermediate composition. The deposits are localized along structurally controlled, hydrothermally altered zones cutting the volcanic host rocks. The dominant structures trend northwesterly and dip steeply. Secondary veins trend easterly and north-northwesterly. The veins can be traced for distances of up to several miles along strike and have widths that range up to 100 feet or more.
The epithermal veins have formed as open-space filling by a mixture of quartz, carbonate minerals and wallrock fragments and show evidence of multiple episodes of brecciation and re-cementation. Gold occurs as fine free grains or as electrum. Silver is found as argentite or in sulfosalts. Base metal sulfides including chalcopyrite, sphalerite and galena are common in certain deposits but rare in others. Gangue minerals usually consist of quartz, pyrite, calcite, barite and fluorite. Alteration of the volcanic country rocks adjacent to the veins commonly consists of sericitization, argillization and silicification.
The principal vein structure on the Summit silver-gold property is the Summit structure, which can be traced for 3,000 feet from southeast to northwest. The Billali structure forms a farther 2,000 foot continuation of the Summit structure in a northwesterly direction across an east-west fault. The Summit and Billali structures dip steeply to the northeast. These structures form segments of the East Camp Fault, which constitutes the main control in this part of the Steeple Rock district. The core drilling carried out from 1984-1992 tested both the Summit and Billali vein structures. Of the two, results from the Summit structure were the more promising with respect to vein continuity and economic potential.
The Summit mineralized vein occurs within a wide, structurally controlled zone of hydrothermally altered volcanic rocks. Silver and gold mineralization is epithermal in style and consists of silver sulfides and electrum or native gold along with lesser pyrite, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Precious metals contents, which are relatively low at the surface, increase significantly with depth for several hundred feet, apparently a reflection of vertical mineral zoning within the deposit. Below 1,000-1,500 feet, the precious metals contents appear to decrease although little deeper drilling was carried out. The main block of mineralized material, which occurs along the footwall of the structure, has been shown by extensive drilling to trend northwesterly about 1,500 feet in strike length and to extend 1,000 feet down dip. The true width of mineralization across the footwall mineralized zone ranges from 6 feet to over 30 feet and averages 10-15 feet.
Mineral Reserves
Santa Fe in the past has reported reserve estimates for the Summit mine based upon a previous study. However, further technical review in light of recent past operational results, combined with lower metal prices, have lead management to determine that mineralized materials previously identified as reserves will require additional technical work including drilling and sampling to reclassify the mineralized material at the Summit project as reserves. Therefore, Santa Fe presently is reporting no reserves for the Summit property.
Chapman, Wood and Griswold, Inc. (“CWG”), an independent geological engineering firm, carried out earlier studies and reviews that determined a potential quantity of Summit mineralized material. The Company has revised the CWG estimate as of June 30, 2014 by removing the volume of material mined from the original mineralized material calculationper each individual drill hole used in the estimate. This method automatically adjusts the grade of the remaining material. The remainder of the original CWG mineralized material estimate as of June 30, 2014 is:
(1) Assays cut to 0.45 oz Au/t and 45.0 oz Ag/ton
(2) Diluted with 1.0 foot at grade on each wall.
Minimum 6.0 -foot horizontal width.
(3) Cutoff grade 0.16 oz Au equivalent per ton, using a 60:1 gold-silver price ratio and equivalent recoveries for gold and silver.
By the end of Q2 FY 2014 mineralized material was identified by drift levels in the area of the upper main block above the 5450 level of the mine. This volume is based upon more than 1,000 samples collected as mine development progressed on the 5600, 5550 and 5450 levels. This volume of mineralized material is estimated at 68,788 tons averaging 0.130 opt Au and 5.50 opt Ag. When added to the remainder of the original CWG estimate, the resulting mineralized material volume at the end of FY 2014 was as follow:
Note that over 75% of the production from the year came from areas outside of previously identified zones of mineralized material.
Operational Strategy
Because Euro Pacific failed to raise any capital pursuant to its best-efforts placement agreement, and because the gold and silver prices have declined sharply in recent months, the Company has changed its operational strategy from a mine restart plan to a resource drilling and engineering program. Presently, in light of recent historical operational results, combined with lower metal prices, the Company is reporting no reserves for the Summit property. As such, the Company’s strategy is to conduct additional technical work, including drilling and sampling, to reclassify some of the mineralized material at the Summit project as reserves.
Santa Fe’s management and independent special committee have both discussed this change in strategy with Santa Fe’s senior secured creditor, Waterton Global Value, L.P. (“Waterton”). Waterton has indicated support for the Company’s resource drilling strategy. In this regard, Santa Fe is attempting to generate and evaluate several term sheets to provide necessary funding for its revised program. No assurances can be given that funding for the program will be secured or that the program will be successful.
Project Economic Estimate
Mining and Processing operations were suspended in Q4 of 2013. An additional $22 million is estimated to be required to restart operations, $8.5 million for financing and debt restructuring, and $13.5 million for capital improvements and working capital. Additional funding may also be required for preoperational test work and feasibility study.
Metallurgical Testing
Conventional processing including crushing, grinding and milling of Summit material to produce a bulk sulfide flotation concentrate containing the recoverable precious metals was evaluated and tested at bench scale. Preliminary bench scale flotation tests indicated that a precious metals recovery of 80% with a concentration ratio of 70 to 1 would be reasonably achievable. Operating results to date at the Banner mill reflect relatively low recoveries due to processing of low grade and oxidized development mineralized material. Metallurgical testing and operational adjustments performed in 2013 achieved improved operating results in the last two months of operation prior to cessation of operations.
Processing for silica flux material requires only crushing and screening of the mineralized material to yield a specified size fraction to meet smelter requirements. After crushing and screening, the crushed material that is not shipped for silica flux is processed through the flotation plant.
Mineral Processing Equipment
With the purchase of Lordsburg Mining in May 2006, SFEG acquired an inactive 2400 ton-per-day flotation plant, including ball mill and ancillary equipment. Subsequently, in June 2008, Santa Fe purchased crushing, screening and conveying equipment. The flotation plant was transported from its previous location near Winston, Sierra County, New Mexico, refurbished as necessary, and erected in 2009 at the Banner mill site in Hidalgo County. In addition to the processing equipment other necessary equipment was also acquired and installed.
Permits
With the purchase of Lordsburg Mining in 2006, Santa Fe acquired existing operating permits for the Summit property and the Banner mill site. The New Mexico Mining and Minerals Division issued these permits to The Lordsburg Mining Company pursuant to the New Mexico Mining Act. Santa Fe modified and revised these permits as necessary in order to commence mining at the Summit mine and resume mineral processing operations at the Banner mill.
Permit No. GR001ME at the Summit mine allows operation of a “minimal impact mine”. As surface disturbance expands, it will be necessary to modify the permit and to post financial assurance for reclamation. Pursuant to the current permit, Santa Fe is conducting underground mining operations.
Permit No. H1001RE at the Banner mill site is for an “existing mining operation” and authorizes Santa Fe to conduct mining and reclamation operations according to the conditions stipulated in the permit. Santa Fe has addressed all proposed mining disturbances under a closeout plan secured by financial assurance. Permit modifications and revisions were obtained to allow resumption of flotation milling, construction of a tailings impoundment and discharge of tailings. Santa Fe has all other necessary permits, including air quality permits for the Banner mill and Summit mine.
Development Activities
Underground development commenced at the Summit mine in 2008. A seven hundred foot 12’ x 13’ decline ramp intersected the predicted mineralized body in February 2009. From that point, two development headings were driven in the main mineralized structure, one an incline to the southeast to intersect old workings and to serve as a secondary escape way was completed in October 2009, and the other a decline to the northwest toward additional mineralized bodies identified in previous drilling was completed in august 2009. About 16,295 feet of underground development has been completed on multiple headings and levels. Stope development and test mining of mineralized material bodies has been carried out and an mineralized material panel referred to as the S-1 stope was developed for extraction by longhole stoping. Blasthole drill levels were driven in this panel at vertical intervals of 50 feet at four elevations. Stoping commenced in November of 2011. Development of the N-1 stoping area drill drifts on the 5600, 5550 and 5450 levels is nearly complete. The main ramp development face is presently at the 5200 foot level. Due to financial difficulties the mining development and production operations were suspended in November of 2013.
At the Banner mill, processing operations commenced in April 2010. Sales of mineralized material as silica flux and sales of precious metals flotation concentrates began in 2010. The mill functioned well with little mechanical difficulties, and was fully operational at the time of suspension of operations in November 2013
Operating Results
Materials processed through the Banner mill or shipped as smelter flux for fiscal year 2014 (July 2013 through June 2014) decreased significantly due to the suspension of all mining and milling operations on November 8, 2013.
Production for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 is summarized as follows:
Total production from inception in 2010 through the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 is summarized as follows:
The Banner mill produces a flotation concentrate which during fiscal year 2014 was shipped to the Aurubis smelter in Germany and the L.S. Nikko smelter in Korea. During the fiscal year, 218.1 tons of concentrate were sold to Aurubis with a total payable metal content (after smelter payment deductions) of 1,718 ounces of gold and 99,441 ounces of silver, while 109.7 tons of concentrate were sold to LS Nikko with a total payable metal content of 910 ounces of gold and 46,921 ounces of silver. The total flux shipments to Asarco of 10,204.9 tons yielded 687 ounces of payable gold and 42,318 ounces of payable silver, while flux shipments to Freeport of 21,154.6 tons yielded 1,127 ounces of gold and 83,865 ounces of silver. Combined metal production was 4,442 ounces of payable gold and 272,545 ounces of payable silver
Lordsburg Exploration Project
In the Lordsburg (Virginia) Mining District, Santa Fe controls approximately 1,200 acres of prospective ground, the majority of which is comprised of patented mining claims that Santa Fe owns, and the remainder patented and unpatented mining claims that are leased. Recorded historic production from the Lordsburg Mining District, at today’s metal prices, exceeds $1.0 billion in copper, gold and silver. Exploration to date has included completion of an aerial mapping survey covering 30 square miles, conducting detailed geologic mapping and sampling, conducting a geophysical survey and carrying out initial drilling of identified exploration targets. The results from this initial work will guide future target prioritization in the district for additional exploration work
Other Properties
Other properties presently held by Santa Fe gold Corporation include the Ortiz Gold property in Santa Fe County, NM, the Black Canyon Mica property in Yavapai County, AZ, and the Planet Micaceous Iron Oxide (MIO) deposit in La Paz County, AZ. The following is background information regarding these three properties.
Ortiz Gold Project
Ortiz Overview: In August 2004, Santa Fe acquired exclusive rights for exploration, development and mining of gold and other minerals on 57,267 acres of the Ortiz Mine Grant in Santa Fe County, New Mexico. In November 2007, Santa Fe relinquished 14,970 acres and retained under lease 42,297 acres.
Santa Fe has not established proven or probable reserves on the Ortiz gold property.
Santa Fe undertook background information studies necessary to advance the Ortiz project. Work completed includes an updated estimation of the tonnage and grade of mineralized material based on historic drilling results, and metallurgical testing and design of conceptual open pits for the Carache and Lucas deposits. Santa Fe also began an assessment of permitting and environmental issues, including collection of baseline environmental data. Work at the property has been suspended.
Ortiz Location and Access: The Ortiz property is located 30 miles by road northeast of Albuquerque, in Townships 12, 13 and 14 North, Ranges 7 and 8 East, N.M.P.M., Santa Fe County, New Mexico. The villages of Golden, Madrid and Cerrillos, with a combined population of less than 1,000 people, lie in and adjacent to the Grant. Paved New Mexico Highway 14 traverses the western portion of the Grant. A network of unimproved ranch roads provides access to the various land holdings. High-voltage electric power lines cross the southern part of the Grant.
The land is utilized mainly for cattle grazing. Other activities include limited subdivision development in the northern part of the Grant, and mine reclamation work at the former Gold Field Ortiz (Cunningham Hill) mine site.
Ortiz Mineral Title: On August 1, 2004, Santa Fe entered into an option and lease agreement with Ortiz Mines, Inc. (“Ortiz Mines”), a New Mexico corporation, whereby it acquired exclusive rights for exploration, development and mining of gold, silver, copper and other minerals on 57,267 acres (approximately 90 square miles) of the Ortiz Mine Grant in Santa Fe County, New Mexico. In November 2007, Santa Fe relinquished 14,970 acres and retained under lease 42,297 acres (66 square miles).Santa Fe paid an initial sum of $20,000 for a six-month option, and on February 1, 2005, paid the additional sum of $30,000 in order to exercise the option and enter into the lease and also to satisfy the obligation of the first year’s lease payment. Since February 1, 2006, Santa Fe has paid annual lease payments, the last payment of $130,000 in January 2014 satisfying the lease payment through January 31, 2015.
On May 1, 2010, Santa Fe agreed with Ortiz Mines, Inc., to amend the terms of the lease. Under the amended terms, the lease provides for an extension of the initial term from seven to ten years (17 years in certain circumstances), continuing year-to-year thereafter for so long as it is producing gold or other minerals in commercial quantities and otherwise are performing its obligations under the lease. Among other terms, the amended lease provides for annual lease payments of $130,000; a sliding-scale production royalty varying from 3% to 5% depending on the price of gold; the requirement that Santa Fe comply with governmental permitting and other regulations; and other terms common in mining leases of this type. The Ortiz gold project is subject to a property identification royalty agreement between Santa Fe and its former President and Chief Executive Officer. See Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”.
On August 31, 2011, the Company filed a Complaint in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico against Ortiz Mines, Inc., in connection with Ortiz Mines purported termination of the Company’s exclusive leasehold rights to explore, develop and mine gold, silver, copper and other minerals on the Ortiz Mine Grant in Santa Fe County, New Mexico. On May 22, 2012, the parties settled the litigation between them. The settlement agreement confirmed the continuation of Santa Fe’s exclusive leasehold rights. In connection with the settlement, Santa Fe agreed, subject to certain qualifications, to expend at least $500,000 by November 22, 2012, and a total of $1,000,000 by May 22, 2013, on work programs in support of project development. Santa Fe has fulfilled the expenditure commitment of $1,000,000.
Ortiz History of Mining and Exploration: Prospecting and mining of gold and silver in the Ortiz area dates to the arrival of the first European (Spanish) settlers in 1598. Significant gold production from Ortiz placers dates to 1821. By 1832 several veins and low-grade gold deposits had been discovered. In 1833 the Ortiz Land Grant, an area about 10.7 miles square centered on the Ortiz gold vein, was registered and possession given by the First Alcade of the City of Santa Fe. By the early 1840’s, mining at the small underground Ortiz Mine had ceased. In the late 1800’s and early 1900’s, sporadic attempts at commercial mining of lode and placer gold deposits were unsuccessful due to lack of water and/or low grades. Total pre-1980 mine production has been estimated at about 100,000 ounces of gold.
The entire Grant was validated by the United States in 1860 under the terms of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The owners received fee simple title to the surface and minerals and the area became known as the Ortiz Mine Grant. Subsequently the Grant changed hands and the surface was sold subject to reservation of the mineral estate. In 1959 the mineral-interest owners and associates formed Ortiz Mines, Inc. for the purpose of promoting and marketing the mineral estate.
In 1973, Consolidated Gold Fields leased the eastern portion of the Grant from Ortiz Mines, Inc. and developed and mined the Cunningham Hill deposit (Ortiz Mine). In the period 1980-1986, Gold Fields produced approximately 250,000 ounces of gold from an open-pit, heap-leach operation.
From 1972 through the early 1990’s, several companies operating under lease with Ortiz Mines, Inc. carried out exploration and pre-development activities in the western portion of the Grant. These companies included Conoco, Inc., LAC Minerals (USA), Inc. and the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture.
Expenditures by these groups are estimated to have exceeded $40 million. Drilling resulted in the identification of gold mineralization in several deposits.
The LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture carried out the majority of the work in the western portion of the Grant, from 1989-1992. The Joint Venture focused on gold mineralization in two deposits in the southwestern part of the Grant, namely the Carache Canyon (“Carache”) and Lucas Canyon (“Lucas”) deposits. These two deposits were the subject of 386,000 feet of core and reverse-circulation drilling, metallurgical testing and pre-feasibility studies carried out by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture and by consulting firms and contractors engaged by the Joint Venture.
Independent Mining Consultants, Inc. (“IMC”), an independent geological engineering firm, was engaged by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture to audit estimations of the quantities and grades of in-place mineralized material at the Carache and Lucas deposits and to prepare conceptual open pit mine plans. IMC used indicator kriging as the estimation method. In 1992, IMC estimated the Carache gold deposit to contain mineralized material of 11.8 million tons grading 0.060 ounces of gold per ton. IMC estimated the Lucas gold deposit to contain mineralized material of 7.6 million tons grading 0.043 ounces of gold per ton.
Under SEC Guideline 7, proven and probable reserves have not been established on the Ortiz deposits. All of the mineralization described above is referred to as “mineralized material.” Mineralized material constitutes a mineralized body that has been delineated by one or more of a number of methods, including drilling, underground work, surface trenching and other types of sampling to establish continuity and support an estimate of tonnage and average grade of the selected metal. Mineralized material does not include tonnages or grades estimated using geologic inference. A deposit of mineralized material does not qualify as a reserve until a comprehensive evaluation based upon unit costs, grade, recoveries and other factors concludes economic and legal feasibility.
In 1989, the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture started a decline adit into the Carache deposit for the purpose of bulk sampling and to provide drilling access for shallow and deep exploration targets. However, after advancing 1719 feet the decline was halted due to a temporary water inflow coupled with regulatory issues. In the face of a declining gold price, mining development of the Carache or Lucas deposits did not proceed, and the project ultimately was cancelled and the lease returned to Ortiz Mines, Inc. Subsequently, no additional exploration was carried out and the property remained dormant until we leased it in August 2004.
In October 2005, Santa Fe engaged Mineral Advisory Group, LLC (“MAG”) of Tucson, Arizona, an independent geological engineering firm, to carry out an engineering review and scoping study of the Carache and Lucas gold deposits, utilizing as a technical base the information generated by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture in 1989-1991. MAG’s study, which was completed in December 2005, assessed various processing options for development and provided estimations of capital and operating costs for each option. MAG’s report concluded, “The financial conclusions drawn from this study indicate a very favorable project employing High Pressure Grinding Rolls with gravity recovery and contract mining.” The report also stated that upside exists in estimations of mineralized material in both contained ounces of gold and grade, as had been concluded previously by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture.
In 2012 Independent Mining Consultants, Inc. (IMC) was engaged to update previous estimations of mineralization of the Carache and Lucas gold deposits. IMC estimated the mineralized material at Carache as 11.7 million tonnes at a grade of 1.58grams per ton gold, and the mineralized material at Lucas as 13 million tonnes at a grade of 0.91 grams per ton gold.
Under SEC Guideline 7, proven and probable reserves have not been established on the Ortiz deposits. All of the mineralization described above is referred to as “mineralized material”. No feasibility study has been completed that could define the mineralized material as reserves.
Ortiz Permitting: In January 2013 the Company began environmental baseline studies required for applications for operating permits. Mining and processing operations at the Ortiz gold property would require permits from the state and federal governments and also would be subject to county regulations. Santa Fe has not applied for or obtained such permits, which require the completion of additional technical, environmental and other work. Santa Fe may be unable to obtain such permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms, or at all. If it cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving such permits, any timetable and business plan for development and mining of the Ortiz gold property could be adversely affected.
Black Canyon Mica
The Black Canyon mine is located 30 miles north of Phoenix, Arizona, and 3.5 miles west-southwest of Black Canyon City. It can be reached via U.S. Interstate 17, which connects Phoenix with Flagstaff, and by a connecting dirt road for the last eight miles. The Glendale processing plant was located in an industrial area on the west side of Phoenix, Arizona, 47 miles to the south of the mine site. The property holdings at and around the Black Canyon mine consist of 67 federal unpatented mining claims in Yavapai County, Arizona and 9 federal unpatented mill site claims in Maricopa County, Arizona, which in total cover approximately 1,385 acres.
In 1999, the Company obtained approval for the Black Canyon Plan of Operations from the Bureau of Land Management and the State of Arizona. An Environmental Assessment, Clean Water Act Permit and Air Quality Procedures were all approved. An Aquifer Protection Permit was not required because processing operations at the mine site did not propose the use of water.
Santa Fe acquired the Black Canyon mica project in 1999 and spent $15 million in establishing mining and processing facilities at the mine site north of Phoenix, Arizona, and at a separate processing plant in Glendale, Arizona. In 2002, it commissioned the processing facilities at the mine site and in Glendale, operated for several months on a test basis and achieved limited production and commercial sales. However, design capacity of the processing facilities was not achieved due to undercapitalization. In November 2002, after unsuccessful attempts to raise the additional capital necessary to expand plant capacity in order to reach design capacity and to provide working capital, crushing and concentrating activities at the Black Canyon mica mine were suspended. After the suspension of operations, limited production, marketing and sales continued through 2005 at the Glendale mica processing facility using inventoried mica. Subsequently, the processing equipment was removed from the Glendale plant and Black Canyon mine and placed into storage.
The mica deposits occur as steeply dipping pegmatite dikes cutting Precambrian schist and granite. Visual estimates from drill core indicate the muscovite (white colored mica) content of the pegmatite is in the range of 5% to 35%. The remainder of the pegmatite dikes mineralogy consists of quartz and feldspar.
While it operated on a test basis in 2002, the project achieved limited production and commercial sales. The operation was successful in achieving two important objectives. First, it demonstrated the facilities were capable of producing the planned range of products. Second, it validated the high quality and market acceptability of the two main product lines, namely high-end wet-ground mica, targeted for high value applications in the plastics and cosmetic industries; and feldspathic sand, targeted for the Phoenix construction and recreational markets.
In 2003-2005, Santa Fe sold, from inventory, limited quantities of its engineered mica-filled plastic pellets and mica powders to a number of companies, including Dupont Canada and Revlon. The commercial orders to Dupont followed a program of testing and product development conducted jointly with Dupont. Dupont used Santa Fe Gold’s plastic pellets in its own formulations to produce plastic end products that it supplied to the automotive industry. Santa Fe Gold also supplied its high quality mica powder to the cosmetic industry through distributors, with Revlon as one of the important customers.
In 2003, the entire inventory of feldspathic sand was sold to customers in the Phoenix area.
Reclamation of the mining site has been completed as required under the Plan of Operations. Any redevelopment of the Black Canyon project would require new permitting.
Planet Micaceous Iron Oxide (MIO) Project Overview
The Planet property is located in the northwest corner of La Paz County, west central Arizona. It lies just south of the Bill Williams River twelve miles above its junction with the Colorado River. The property is reached by road, either via the Swansea gravel road, twenty-eight miles north from the town of Bouse; or via the Osborne Well paved and gravel road, twenty-five miles east from the town of Parker.
The Planet deposit was worked for its copper value from 1863 until l884, and then intermittently through the early 1900’s. Several shafts were sunk and 8,000 feet of underground workings were developed. High-grade copper ore was extracted and shipped to Swansea, Wales, and to San Francisco. The last mining activity took place between 1915 and 1918 when all remaining high-grade ore was mined and shipped. In total, the property produced approximately 50,000 tons of ore grading 10% copper.
Between 1942 and 1944, the U. S. Bureau of Mines investigated the quantity and quality of mineralized material containing iron oxide at the Planet deposit. The Bureau carried out geologic mapping and sampling, and conducted drilling programs utilizing both churn and diamond drilling methods. The information that resulted from this work was compiled and recorded in Report of Investigations 3982, “Exploration of the New Planet Iron Deposit”. In 1945, it was used by the Bureau to calculate the tonnage and grade of mineralized material containing iron oxide at the Planet deposit.
In 2002, Santa Fe leased the Planet property for its potential to produce micaceous iron oxide (“MIO”). In August 2008, Santa Fe exercised its option to purchase the property. Payments made to complete the purchase from 2008 to 2012 totaled $302,376. The Planet property consists of thirty-one patented mining claims totaling 523 acres located in western Arizona. There is a provision for a 5% royalty to be paid on any future production.
MIO is an uncommon flake-like form of crystalline hematite (Fe2O3) valued for the anti-corrosive properties it contributes to coatings formulated to protect structural steelwork. MIO is an increasingly recognized eco-friendly base pigment used in coating systems on many of the world’s largest bridges, oil rigs, production platforms, transmission towers, pipelines, industrial plants and superstructures.
The mineralized bodies form discontinuous lenses, irregular bodies and veins that individually are as much as 700 feet long, 250 feet wide, and 50 feet thick. Mineralized material consists dominantly of specularite and massive hematite with some limonite, malachite, azurite, chrysocolla, and minor pyrite, chalcopyrite, bornite, gold, and silver. Associated minerals include quartz and calcite. The mineralized material is silicified and very hard at the surface and to a depth of ten feet, but underground it is soft and powdery.
Results of work to date indicate the Planet property may contain a MIO deposit, one of the largest deposits of its kind in the world, and unique to North America. However, no feasibility study has been completed, and there are no mineral reserves established for the Planet MIO property. Metallurgical work suggests that a high quality MIO product may be able to be successfully produced. As is characteristic of industrial mineral operations, marketing would play a critical role in the success of any new MIO operation and is identified as an important factor for successful development.
Glossary
Alluvium Unconsolidated gravel, sand, silt and clay deposited by streams.
Andesite A common fine-grained continental lava containing sodium feldspar, no quartz and associated with mountain-making processes.
Argentite Silver sulfide mineral, a common source of silver.
Argillization Alteration of feldspars to form clay minerals, especially in wall rocks adjacent to mineral veins.
Azurite Blue hydrous copper carbonate mineral formed in oxide zone of copper deposit.
Barite Barium sulfate mineral, the main source of barium.
Bornite Copper-iron sulfide mineral, an important source of copper.
Breccia Rock composed of broken rock fragments, found in sedimentary or volcanic environments.
Calcite Calcium carbonate mineral, the main constituent of limestone and marble.
Chalcopyrite Copper-iron sulfide mineral, an important source of copper.
Diatreme Volcanic pipe containing milled breccia that was formed by explosive gaseous venting and upward transport of material.
Dike Tabular discordant intrusive rock.
Dip Acute vertical angle that a rock surface makes with a horizontal plane. Direction of dip is always perpendicular to strike.
Electrum Alloy of silver and gold.
Epithermal Refers to hydrothermal mineral deposit formed within a few thousand feet of surface at relatively low temperature and pressure, commonly a vein.
Fault A break in the rocks along which movement has occurred.
Feldspar Common alumino-silicate mineral containing sodium, potassium and/or calcium, formed in igneous environment and constituting over 60% of the Earth’s crust.
Feldspathic sand Sand containing feldspar and quartz.
Flotation Metallurgical process that begins concentration of economic minerals from gangue.
Fluorite Calcium fluoride mineral, also called fluorspar.
Galena Lead sulfide mineral, the main source of lead.
Gangue Valueless material accompanying economic minerals in a mineral deposit.
Garnet Silicate mineral formed at high temperature and found in metamorphic rock and in skarn near the contact zone of igneous intrusive rocks.
Gneiss Metamorphic rock exhibiting compositional banding formed at depth in a high temperature and pressure environment.
Granite Common coarse-grained igneous rock composed of light colmineralizedmateriald minerals including quartz and feldspar.
Heap leaching
A process used for the recovery of precious metals and copper from low-grade mineralized materials. Crushed material is laid on an impervious pad and uniformly leached by the percolation of the leach liquor trickling through the beds by gravity to ponds. The metals are recovered by conventional methods from the solution.
Hematite Iron (ferrous) oxide mineral.
Hydrothermal Relating to or produced by extremely hot water.
Igneous Refers to a rock or mineral that solidified from magma, i.e., molten material.
Lava Rock formed as a result of cooling and solidification of magma (molten rock) poured out on the earth’s surface.
Malachite Green hydrous copper carbonate mineral formed in the oxide zone of copper deposit.
Manto Tabular or pipe-like mineral deposit formed by selective replacement commonly of limestone beds by mineralizing solutions introduced along faults.
Metamorphic Refers to rock changed in texture and composition by high temperature and/or pressure deep beneath the surface.
Mica
Group of phyllosilicate minerals, common variety muscovite, with perfect basal (micaceous) cleavage yielding tough, elastic flakes and sheets; colorless, white, yellow, green, brown, or black; common in igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks.
Micaceous Iron Platy variety of specularite used in coatings to protect structural steelwork
Oxide (“MIO”) from corrosion.
Mineralized Material added by hydrothermal solutions, principally in the form of mineral deposits. Often refers to the presence of a mineral of economic interest in the rock.
Molybdenite Molydenum sulfide mineral, the main source of molybdenum
Monzonite Coarse-grained igneous rock containing quartz and composed of approximately equal amounts of sodium and potassium feldspars.
Net Smelter Return An interest in a mining property held by the vendor on the net revenues generated from the sale of metal produced from the mine.
Ore Mineral of economic value that can be extracted profitably and legally.
Oxidation The conversion of sulfide minerals to oxide minerals through weathering at or near the earth’s surface.
Paleozoic The era of geologic time when fish, insects, amphibians, reptiles, and land plants first appeared, about 600 million to 230 million years ago.
Pegmatite Very coarse-grained igneous rock containing quartz, feldspar and mica, usually found as irregular dikes, lenses or veins, esp. at the margins of granites.
Placer Deposit of sand or gravel containing concentrations of valuable minerals, typically gold.
Plunge The vertical angle between a horizontal plane and the line of maximum elongation of a linear geologic feature.
Porphyry Igneous rock exhibiting a characteristic texture reflecting relatively large feldspar phenocrysts in a fine-grained groundmass.
Precambrian All geologic time before the beginning of the Paleozoic. It encompasses about 90% of geologic time (4600-590 million years ago).
Pyrite Iron sulfide mineral.
Quaternary A period of geologic time from about 2 million years ago until the present.
Schist Metamorphic rock exhibiting strong cleavage due to alignment of fibrous or platy minerals.
Sericitization Replacement of rock by sericitic muscovite due to hydrothermal activity.
Silicification Introduction of or replacement by silica.
Skarn Characteristic high-temperature calc-silicate mineral assemblage formed in calcareous rocks near the contact zone of igneous intrusion.
Sphalerite Zinc sulfide mineral, the main source of zinc.
Specularite Crystalline form of hematite.
Stratigraphy The study of rock strata, especially of their distribution, deposition, and age.
Strike Direction of line formed by intersection of a rock surface with a horizontal plane. Strike is always perpendicular to direction of dip.
Sulfide A mineral compound containing sulfur but no oxygen.
Tailings Waste product from ground mineralized material.
Tertiary The first period of the Cenozoic era during which mammals became dominant and modern plants evolved, 65 million to 1.6 million years ago.
Vein A mineral filling of a fault or other fracture in a host rock, in tabular or sheet like form, commonly with associated replacement of the host rock; a mineral deposit of this form and origin.
Volcanism Volcanic activity, including the eruption of lava and rock fragments and gas explosions.
Quartz A silicate mineral composed of silicon and oxygen.
Quartzite Metamorphic rock composed of quartz.
ITEM 3.