ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Patented Mining Claims
We hold eight (8) patented claims related to the Jim Crow Imperial Mine and the one (1) for the Billali Mine, all of which are held by our wholly owned subsidiary, Minerals Acquisitions, LLC together with thirteen (13) for the Alhambra Mine held by our wholly owned subsidiary, Bullard’s Peak Corporation. Patented mining claims, such as the ones located in our Jim Crow Imperial Mine, our Billali Mine and our Alhambra Mine, are mining claims on federal lands that are held in fee simple by the owner. No maintenance fees or royalties are payable to the BLM; however, payments and royalties with third parties are applicable on some of these claims.
Unpatented Mining Claims: The Mining Law of 1872
Except for the eight (8) patented claims held for the Jim Crow Imperial Mine, two (2) are unpatented and the one (1) patented claim for the Billali Mine, held by our wholly owned subsidiary, Minerals Acquisitions, LLC; and the thirteen (13) patented claims, eighty nine (89) of our claims for the Alhambra Mine held by our wholly owned subsidiary, Bullard’s Peak Corporation, are considered “unpatented.” Thus, our mining rights consist of agreements covering “patented” and "unpatented" mining claims created and
maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872, or the “General Mining Law.” Unpatented mining claims are unique U.S. property interests and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory and decisional law that supplement the General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining claims and related rights, including rights to use the surface, are subject to possible challenges by third parties or contests by the federal government. In addition, there are few public records that definitively control the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. We have not filed a patent application for any of our unpatented mining claims that are located on federal public lands in the United States and, under possible future legislation to change the General Mining Law, patents may be difficult to obtain.
Our exploration, development and mining rights relate to patented and unpatented mining claims covering federal and State lands in the State of New Mexico. Location of mining claims under the General Mining Law, is a self-initiation system under which a person physically stakes an unpatented mining claim on public land that is open to location, posts a location notice and monuments the boundaries of the claim in compliance with federal laws and regulations and with state location laws, and files notice of that location in the county records and with the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”). Mining claims can be located on land as to which the surface was patented into private ownership under the Stock raising Homestead Act of 1916, 43 U.S.C. §299, but the mining claimant cannot injure, damage or destroy the surface owner's permanent improvements and must pay for damage to crops caused by prospecting. Discovery of a valuable mineral deposit, as defined under federal law, is essential to the validity of an unpatented mining claim and is required on each mining claim individually. The location is made as a lode claim for mineral deposits found as veins or rock in place, or as a placer claim for other deposits. While the maximum size and shape of lode claims and placer claims are established by statute, there are no limits on the number of claims one person may locate or own. The General Mining Law also contains provision for acquiring five-acre claims of non-mineral land for mill site purposes. A mining operation typically is comprised of many mining claims.
The holder of a valid unpatented mining claim has possessory title to the land covered thereby, which gives the claimant exclusive possession of the surface for mining purposes and the right to mine and remove minerals from the claim. Legal title to land encompassed by an unpatented mining claim remains in the United States, and the government can contest the validity of a mining claim. The General Mining Law requires the performance of annual assessment work for each claim, and subsequent to enactment of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. §1201 et seq., mining claims are invalidated if evidence of assessment work is not timely filed with BLM. However, in 1993 Congress enacted a provision requiring payment of a small claim maintenance fee in lieu of performing assessment work, subject to an exception for small miners having less than 10 claims. No royalty is paid to the United States with respect to minerals mined and sold from a mining claim The General Mining Law provides a procedure for a qualified claimant to obtain a mineral patent (i.e., fee simple title to the mining claim) under certain conditions. It has become much more difficult in recent years to obtain a patent. Beginning in 1994, Congress imposed a funding moratorium on the processing of mineral patent applications which had not reached a designated stage in the patent process at the time the moratorium went into effect. Additionally, Congress has considered several bills in recent years to repeal the General Mining Law or to amend it to provide for the payment of royalties to the United States and to eliminate or substantially limit the patent provisions of the law.
Mining claims are conveyed by deed or leased by the claimant to the party seeking to develop the property. Such a deed or lease (or memorandum of it needs to be recorded in the real property records of the county where the property is located, and evidence of such transfer needs to be filed with BLM. It is not unusual for the grantor or lessor to reserve a royalty, which as to precious metals often is expressed as a percentage of net smelter returns.
Overview of Mining Properties Locations
Steeple Rock District, Grant County New Mexico - Project Description
Properties - The Jim Crow, Imperial and Billali Mines
Santa Fe’s properties consist of the Jim Crow group of patented and unpatented claims in the southern part of the district and the Billali patented claim in the northern. The Jim Crow group is made up of 7 patented and 2 unpatented mining claims. The Billali consists of one patented mining claim.
Patented Lode Claims
Name
MS No.
Imperial Lode
MS 1012 A
Jim Crow Lode
MS 1012 B
Gold King Lode
MS 1012 C
Portal Lode
MS 1012 D
Gold Bug Lode
MS 1012 E
Red Prince Lode
MS 1012 F
Three Brothers Lode
MS 1012 G
Contention Lode
MS 1012 H
Unpatented Lode Claims
Name
BLM Serial Number
Papoose No 1 Lode
Leslie Billingsley - claimant
Papoose No 2 Lode
Leslie Billingsley - claimant
Location and Access
The Steeple Rock mining district in the western part of Grant County New Mexico. The district lies approximately 45 miles east of the town of Safford, Arizona and approximately 10 miles northeast of Duncan, Arizona. The district is reached by well-maintained county roads from Duncan.
District Historical and Prior Operations
The Steeple Rock district was discovered in 1860’s and was in production until the so-called “silver panic” of 1893. Since 1893, there has been little activity. We believe that the Steeple Rock district was reopened at different times in the 1950’s, 1960’s and the 1970’s, but no sustained development or production is believed to have occurred. There has been some trenching and surface geochem work done at various times. During the time of elevated precious metal prices after 1980 there was considerable activity including a project at the Imperial-Jim Crow by Queenstake Resources in the early 1980’s and work by ASARCO also in the 1980’s. The Billali was explored by Biron Bay Resources in 1990-1993 and again in 2013-2014 by Shooting Star Mining Co. In 2010 the Summit mine was successfully developed and operated but closed in 2013.
Title and Ownership of the Billali and Jim Crow and Imperial Mines Project
The Company determined the Agreement with the sellers of the properties is a lease at its inception and provides for grant of use. The Company has the right to cancel the Agreement at any time. The Company considers the properties to be exploration properties. The Agreement gives the Company surface, mining, and access rights. These are subject only to any limitations imposed by federal, state and local regulations, the free, unrestricted and uninterrupted right of access, ingress and egress to the Billali, Jim Crow and Imperial Mines over existing roads or alternate routes approved by Seller and the right to enter upon and occupy the Billali, Jim Crow and Imperial Mines for all purposes reasonably incident to exploring for, developing, mining (by underground mining, surface mining, strip mining or any other surface or subsurface method, including any method later developed), extracting, milling, smelting, refining, stockpiling, storing, processing, removing and marketing there from all ores, metals, minerals, mineral products (including intermediate products) and materials of every nature or sort, and the right to place, construct, maintain, use and thereafter remove such structures, facilities, equipment, roadways, haulage ways, utility lines, reservoirs and water courses, and other improvements as may be necessary, useful or convenient for the full enjoyment of all of the rights granted under this Agreement. Buyer shall have sole and exclusive custody, possession, ownership and control of all ore, rock, drill core and other mineral substances extracted or removed from the Billali, and Jim Crow and Imperial Mines and may sell or otherwise dispose thereof. The right to use any of Seller’s water rights, which rights are hereby assigned, on, about, under or appurtenant to the Billali and Jim Crow to facilitate the exploration, mining and processing rights granted in this Agreement. Until the total price under the Agreement is paid, title on all owned properties and unpatented property remain in the name of the seller under the Agreement.
Mineralization and Geology
The Steeple Rock district is classified as a high level, epithermal gold and silver bearing quartz vein system hosted principally in andesite lava flow rock which comprises the lower part of the Tertiary volcanic section in the region. Other rocks exposed within the district are Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks, Paleozoic sedimentary rocks, and Mesozoic igneous and sedimentary rocks. The veins trend northwesterly and northerly. Most of the historic production has been from the northwest trending set of veins. Veins within the district are numerous and only a few of them have undergone systematic development.
The ore in the Steeple Rock district appears to be controlled by rock lithology, with the host rock being a coarse-grained quartz diorite. Vein boundaries are sharp and the vein filings are generally recognizable visually. Mineralization in the Steeple Rock mining district consists of numerous narrow carbonate veins containing varying amounts of cobalt and nickel, silver, uranium, and arsenic. This is a geologic type of mineral deposit generally called “five element veins.”
Description of the Jim Crow and Imperial Mines
The Jim Crow group covers approximately 4,000 feet strike length on the north trending Imperial vein and approximately 2,600 feet strike length of the northwest trending Jim Crow vein system. The Imperial mine occupies the southernmost 1,000 feet of the Imperial vein at which point the Jim Crow system branches to the northwest. The north trending Imperial continues another 3,050 to the property end line. The Jim Crow trend consists of three, possibly more, sub-parallel veins converging to the northwest.
The Jim Crow mine is well equipped and in good working order. It is served by a 320 feet deep inclined shaft with a well-designed steel headframe. The hoist is equipped with up to date safety devices. The shaft is capable of lifting 30 tons per hour and can handle both ore and waste at the same time. The mine has three levels, 50 feet, 200 feet and 300 feet, all with air, water and ventilation services installed. Broken muck is moved to the shaft by scrapers on the 50 and 200 levels and by 2 feet gauge rail on the 300 level.
The location of the Jim Crow mine is highly advantageous in that the unexplored and undeveloped segments of the Imperial and Jim Crow veins can be easily accessed from the mine. The lower 300 -foot level can be extended to the south to explore and develop the Imperial vein below it lowermost 200-foot level in the area intercepted by the encouraging drill holes. It can also be extended to the northwest to explore the northwest extension of the Jim Crow vein and its parallel “wall” veins and the area where these veins “intersect”. The unexplored north trending segment of the Imperial vein could also be readily accessed from the Jim Crow Mine.
Description of the Billali Mine
The Billali property consists of one patented mining claim. It covers 1,200 feet of vein length and is situated approximately 3,000 feet northwest of the Summit mine.
The principal working on the Billali is a 12’ x12’ decline driven at grade of -20% for approximately 1120 feet. The decline was started on the northeast flank of the vein zone, driven across it for approximately 260 feet and then turned southeast and continued straight along the zone for another approximately 580 feet. The present water level is at approximately 800’. From that point it extended in an irregular manner for another 650 feet to its present head approximately, 260 feet vertically below the portal. A lateral level was driven 300 feet northeast across the vein zone from the bottom of the decline. The first 856 feet of the decline is set up for rail haulage using a winch stationed on the surface.
The Billali occupies the northwest extension of the Summit vein. In the 1990-1992 time period Byron Bay Resources, a Canadian mining company, conducted an extensive exploration program on the Summit vein including the Billali mine. Data in the mine owner’s archives are poorly documented and drill hole collars are not definitely located. Diamond drilling was done on the Billali claim in 1990, 1991 and 1992. Partial data is available for twenty of these drill holes. Byron Bay Resources company reports dated 1990 and 1991 describe a vein zone approximately 350 feet wide with discontinuously mineralized footwall and hanging wall quartz veins, ranging from 3 to 15 feet true width. Biron Bay Resources, in a report dated 25 Nov 1991 cite vein intercepts for drill hole B-91-15 with interval of 5’ (core length) of .24 oz/ton Au and 12.63 oz/ton Ag. Drill hole B-91-16 is cited 14.5’ (core length) at .301 oz/ton Au and 21.8 oz/ton Ag.
In 2013 and 2014 Shooting Star Mining Co. optioned the property and continued development. Their intention was to expand on the previous work of Biron Bar Resources and to “in fill” the drill intercepts of that 1990-90 project. They drove the decline to explore the drill intercepts of Biron Bay. The company completed 21 underground diamond drill holes. The Shooting Star drilling failed to establish horizontal continuity for the earlier drilling but did establish that high grade mineralization over economically viable widths was present. They concluded that the prospect would not support a conventional mine-mill operation.
The work by these two companies has demonstrated that, although the vein is not consistently mineralized enough to support a large-scale operation, there are numerous lenses and pockets of high-grade rock that could be profitably extracted by careful development and mining.
Exploration Status
We have not established that our Billali Mine and Jim Crow Mine rights contain proven or probably reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. Minimal exploration activities have commenced to date and minimal exploration costs have been incurred or paid. To date, the Company has not (i) commenced or adopted plans to conduct any exploration, (ii) prepared drilling plans, proposals, timetables or budgets for exploration work, or (iii) identified engineers and other personnel that will conduct or assist in any exploration work. The Company will need to raise funds to conduct exploration work and it currently lacks firm commitment financing for any exploration activities.
The Company commenced development of the Jim Crow mine in late 2019. Work to date has consisted of upgrading the surface facilities, rehabilitating the shaft, expanding the hoisting capability and underground development on three levels. A crushing plant was purchased and installed at Duncan, Arizona, in late 2019.
The Company will need to further develop the properties for sustained production. Such work will consist of exploration drilling from surface and underground, mine development to include drifting, raising and stope development, and further improvement of the surface facilities and crushing plant. Additional equipment will be needed to be purchased or leased. The Company currently lacks the capital to fund these expenditures.
Current Billali Exploration and Status
Exploration and development work done in the 1990’s and in the 2011-14 time period suggest there are potentially mineable pipe-like high grade zones with indications of vertical continuity distributed throughout the length of the property. These can be in any of the three or more veins that are presently identified within the approximately 350 foot wide structural zone that makes up Billali vein zone.
Santa Fe is currently mining one of these gold-silver bearing pipe-like bodies that has recently been discovered approximately 180 feet from the portal. Long hole drilling in the overlying Hoover Tunnel some 70 feet above suggest that this zone is continuous for at least that far. The mined high silica vein rock is being stockpiled and will be sent as a trial shipment to a nearby smelter pending the aggregation of 500 tons. Assuming acceptance of the trial shipment and execution of a contract with the smelter, the mine will be developed on three levels approximately 100 vertical feet apart. These levels will crosscut the entire vein zone and the veins will be developed by a series of lateral workings from these crosscuts. The mineralized high silica rock will be shipped directly, with no processing, as flux to the smelter.
Because of the advanced stage of development of this property and the existing infrastructure, and the opportunity to market the product directly to a nearby smelter, these pipe-like bodies can be exploited for relatively low cost.
Power and Water
The Company will be required to use water from the mine, to be stored in a water tank to be placed on the property, for its water source. It is believed that this water will be sufficient for any development purposes. The Company will be required to place a generator on the property for electricity.
Development Plans
Santa Fe Gold believes that a profitable operation can be established and sustained in the Steeple Rock district by careful development and mining the high silica, gold and silver bearing vein rock thought to be present in both the Jim Crow and Billali mines. The district has a long record of producing high quality smelter flux ores that were directly shipped to nearby copper smelters. Both the Jim Crow and Billali mines are well developed with services in place. Both can be commissioned with relatively little development cost. By taking advantage of existing development and by carefully mining and shipping this vein material directly to a smelter we expect to realize an acceptable return and avoid the high capital expense usually associated with the development of a mine-mill complex.
Description of Black Hawk Project
Property Location and Access
The Black Hawk district, also called the Bullard’s Peak district in some references, is located approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Silver City New Mexico. Santa Fe Gold Corp. owns 13 patented and 82 unpatented mining claims covering approximately 72% of the known extent of the district. This property includes four of the five mines with recorded production among which are the two largest, the Black Hawk and the Alhambra. The property is reached by truck on a private dirt road that turns left off a paved highway, which access road is approximately 15 miles west-southwest of Silver City. The claims are all located within approximately 1,900 acres.
Property Description
The Black Hawk district, sometimes referred to as the Bullard Peak district, is located in Grant County, New Mexico, approximately 15 miles by road west of Silver City, New Mexico, the terminus of a branch line of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway. The district is in the northeastern foothills of the Big Burro Mountains at an altitude of approximately 5,450 to 6,150 feet. Scattered junipers, scrub oak, small pines, and brush cover the hillsides. Most of the district is drained by way of Black Hawk Canyon which bisects the area and flows northward to Mangas Creek, but the eastern part is drained by tributaries of Silver Dale Creek, which flows northeastward to Mangas Creek. Mangas Creek flows into the Gila River about 9 miles northwest of the mouth of Black Hawk Canyon.
The ore in the Black Hawk district appears to be controlled by rock lithology, with the host rock being a coarse-grained quartz diorite. Vein boundaries are sharp and the vein filings are generally recognizable visually. Mineral property claims are as follows:
Patented Lode Claims
Unpatented Lode Claims
History and Prior Operations
The Black Hawk district was discovered in 1881 and was in production until the so called “silver panic” of 1893. Since its main productive period, ending in its closure in late 1893 or early 1894, there has been little activity in the Black Hawk district. One of the mines, the Black Hawk was reopened in 1917 and some development done in the upper levels. Both the Black Hawk and the Alhambra were reopened at different times in the 1950’s, 1960’s, and the 1970’s but no sustained development or production was achieved. There has been some trenching and surface geochem work done at various times.
Project Status and Exploration Activities
We have not established that our Black Hawk and Bullard Peak rights contain proven or probably reserves, as defined under SEC Industry Guide 7. No exploration activities have commenced to date and no exploration costs have been incurred or paid. To date, the Company has not (i) commenced or adopted plans to conduct any exploration, (ii) prepared drilling plans, proposals, timetables or budgets for exploration work, or (iii) identified engineers and other personnel that will conduct or assist in any exploration work. The Company will need to raise funds to conduct exploration work and it currently lacks firm commitment financing for any exploration activities.
The Company will need to prepare the property for exploration and drilling activities, including building infrastructure, installing facilities, and purchasing equipment. Future exploration drilling on any of our properties that consist of BLM land will require us to either file a Notice of Intent (NOI) or a Plan of Operations with the BLM, depending upon the amount of new surface disturbance that is planned. A Notice of Intent is required for planned surface activities that anticipate less than 5.0 acres of surface disturbance, and usually can be obtained within a 30 to 60-day time period.
The Company currently lacks sufficient capital to fund these expenditures and is currently allocating working capital to the Jim Crow and Billali project.
Mineralization and Geology
Mineralization in the Black Hawk mining district consists of numerous narrow carbonate veins containing varying amounts of cobalt and nickel, silver, uranium, and arsenic. It is one of a well-known, but poorly understood, geologic type of mineral deposit generally called “five element veins”. They are also rich in uranium, nickel and, of interest today, cobalt. In the Black Hawk district, the host is a coarse-grained quartz diorite. Mining conditions within the veins are good. The lack of strong alteration results in stable walls requiring minimum support, only occasional faults or gouge zones require timber. Vein boundaries are sharp and the vein fillings are easily recognizable visually.
The Silver City quadrangle covers approximately 20,650 square kilometers chiefly in the southern basin and range province of southwestern New Mexico and southeastern Arizona. Bedrock of the ranges includes Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks, Paleozoic sedimentary rocks, Mesozoic igneous and sedimentary rocks, and Cenozoic igneous rocks. The intervening basins, which constitute about 65% of the quadrangle’s surface area, are filled with Late Cenozoic (Pliocene-Pleistocene) sedimentary deposits in places to depths of more than 1,000 meters. The geology of each range is generally different, and most rock units and pre-basin and range structures cannot be correlated across the basin areas. The principal hydrothermal ore-forming processes in the quadrangle are believed to be attributable to subduction-related events including complex eruptive systems during two distinct periods in the development of the western orogenic continental margin: (i) a medium-potassium calcium/alkaline volcanic arc system in late Cretaceous/early Tertiary time (the Laramide orogeny 80/50 million years ago); and (ii) a high-potassium calcium/alkaline volcano-plutonic arc system in middle Tertiary time (30/15 million years ago). The hydrothermal-magmatic vein and pegmatite type deposits are probably Precambrian in age and the syngenetic sedimentary and volcanic deposits range in age from Cambrian to late Tertiary (or younger).
Although there is some local variation in some of the districts, the five metal types of deposits in the Black Hawk district are fissure veins where the carbonate and the ore minerals fill open space caused by the fracturing. The ore generally occurs in small high-grade pods or shoots randomly distributed within the fracture zone. The location of these open spaces is the sole recognized control of ore distribution. The favorability of the host seems to be governed by its fracturing characteristics rather than any chemical factor. Generally, in these deposits there is one favored rock type that accounts for most of the production. At the Black Hawk district, the preferred host rock is the coarse-grained quartz diorite.
The project requires further evaluation of its mineralogical makeup and economic modeling to determine the appropriate course for any potential future development. The Company has not conducted a preliminary economic assessment of the project at the time of filing this report. Upon completion of the preliminary economic assessment of the project, the Company will prepare an impairment analysis of the project to determine if an impairment is required at that time.
Power and Water
The Company will be required to use water from the mine, to be stored in a water tank to be placed on the property, for its water source. It is believed that this water will be sufficient for any development purposes. The Company will be required to place a generator on the property for electricity.
ITEM 3.