ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Summit Silver-Gold Project
Overview
Santa Fe Gold acquired the Summit silver-gold project in May 2006. The project includes the underground Summit silver-gold mine and related property consisting of 117 acres of patented mining claims and 740 acres of unpatented mining claims in Grant County, southwestern New Mexico; and the Banner mill, including mineral processing equipment consisting of a crushing and screening plant, a ball mill and a 400 ton-per-day flotation plant, and related property consisting of approximately 1,500 acres of wholly owned and leased patented and unpatented mining claims, located approximately 57 miles south of the Summit mine near Lordsburg, Hidalgo County, New Mexico. We own and operate the Summit project under the Lordsburg Mining Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Construction of the Banner mill and development of the Summit mine have been the focus of our activities since 2008. In April 2007, we received results of an engineering study that concluded the Summit deposit would form the basis of an economically viable underground mining operation. In December 2007, we arranged financing of $13.5 million by way of a private placement of senior secured convertible debentures. We began construction activities during 2008, including development of the Summit mine and construction of the Banner mill. Ore generated in the process of developing the mine was stockpiled for later processing. Construction of the Banner mill was completed in mid-2009 and construction of the tailings disposal impoundment was completed in early 2010. We commenced processing operations at the Banner mill in April 2010. Trial sales of ore as silica flux material commenced in the second quarter of 2010 and trial sales of precious metals flotation concentrate began in the third quarter of 2010. Mine development is on-going, and at the end of June 2012 we had constructed over 12,400 feet of new underground openings. The Summit mine achieved commercial production in Q2 of calendar 2012.
The Summit mining and processing operation involves underground mining of silver and gold ore from the Summit mine and trucking of the ore 57 miles to the Banner mill site where metallurgical processing takes place. At full production, mining is planned to be carried out at a rate of 400 tons per day (120,000 tons per year). At the Banner site, processing is accomplished through conventional crushing, grinding and selective flotation to yield a bulk sulfide concentrate containing the recoverable precious metals.
Since start-up in April 2010, the mill has demonstrated the ability to produce a high value gold-silver concentrate that averages around 10 ounces per ton gold and 500 ounces per ton silver. We are marketing this concentrate under a sales contract for 2012 to a German smelter and are exploring other marketing options. We also are producing siliceous flux material, involving crushing and screening of Summit ore, and then direct shipping of the resulting beneficiated product to copper smelters for use as smelter converter flux. We sold siliceous flux material to two Arizona smelters in 2011 and are continuing sales to the same smelters during 2012. Sales of siliceous flux material are in addition to sales of concentrate produced at the Banner mill.
Location and Access
The Summit silver-gold property is located in a rugged and isolated setting in Grant County, southwestern New Mexico, near the Arizona state line. The property lies within the Steeple Rock Mining District, which has recorded notable historic production of gold, silver, base metals and fluorspar from several mines, currently inoperative, including Carlisle, East Camp and Norman King.
The property is accessible by paved and gravel road approximately 15 miles northeast from Arizona State Highway 75 N and the town of Duncan, Arizona. Electric power is not available on or near the property and is generated on-site in connection with the Summit mining operation. Water for limited usage is available on and near the property.
The terrain of the property is rugged, with steep canyons and ridges. Elevations range from 4,500 feet to 6,200 feet above sea level. The Summit siliceous mineralized structure forms a prominent northwesterly trending ridge.
The Banner mill site lies 57 miles to the south of the Summit property near the town of Lordsburg, Hidalgo County, New Mexico. Lordsburg is connected to Duncan, Arizona via US Highway 70. The Banner mill site is accessible from Lordsburg by a 4-mile paved road. Utilities on site include water and electric power. The Lordsburg area is well supported by transportation services including trucking and rail services, and by a wide range of fabrication, construction and other support services. The labor force required for the plant operation is sourced locally.
Figure X.1
Claim Boundary Map
Mineral Title
Our holdings at the Summit silver-gold property in Grant County, New Mexico consist of 10 patented federal mining claims totaling approximately 117 acres and 62 unpatented federal mining claims totaling approximately 740 acres. Our holdings at and adjacent to the Banner mill site in Hidalgo County, New Mexico consist of 86 wholly-owned patented federal mining claims, 16 wholly-owned unpatented mining claims, 17 leased patented mining claims and 6 leased unpatented mining claims, aggregating approximately 1,500 acres. All wholly-owned claims are held in the name of Lordsburg Mining. The unpatented mining claims are located on public land and held pursuant to the General Mining Law of 1872. We fully own the mining rights and believe the claims are in good standing in accordance with the mining laws of the United States.
In order to maintain our claims in good standing, for our patented mining claims we must pay annual property taxes to Grant and Hidalgo Counties, and for our unpatented mining claims we must pay annual assessment fees to the Bureau of Land Management and record the payment of rental fees with Grant and Hidalgo Counties. We are current on property taxes related to our patented claims. Annual assessment and recording costs for our unpatented claims total approximately $12,000. We have paid the required fees for the 2012 and 2013 assessment years (September 1, 2011 through August 31, 2013).
The Summit property is subject to underlying net smelter return royalties capped at $4,000,000 and to a net-proceeds interest on sales of unbeneficiated mineralized rock with an end price of $2,400,000. The Summit acquisition is subject to a property identification agreement between us and our President and Chief Executive Officer. See Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”.
History of Mining and Exploration
The Summit silver-gold property lies within the Steeple Rock district, which is one of the historic mining areas in the southwest United States. The former mines produced gold, silver and base metals from underground mining of epithermal vein systems. Prospecting activity dates back to before 1860. The first recorded production was from the Carlisle property, which operated from 1880-1897. A number of other mines including the Norman King and Billali also opened up during the 1880’s but ceased operation by the turn of the century. Following this early production, the district was largely dormant until the 1930’s-mid 1940’s when several mines operated. Subsequently sporadic small-scale operations continued until the 1990’s on various deposits including the Summit, Center, Mount Royal and Carlisle deposits.
The US Bureau of Mines estimated that between 1880 and 1986 the Steeple Rock district produced at least 148,000 ounces of gold, 3.3 million ounces of silver, 1.2 million pounds of copper, and 5 million pounds of lead and 4 million pounds of zinc. In addition, there was unrecorded precious and base metal production as part of silica flux shipments. Some 6,500 tons of fluorspar also were produced.
In the late 1970’s, Summit Minerals Inc. is reported to have shipped about 30,000 tons of mineralized material from the Summit property to ASARCO’s El Paso smelter as direct shipping silica flux grading 0.102 ounces per ton gold and 4.95 ounces per ton silver.
Exploration work estimated to have cost in excess of $8.0 million was carried out on the Summit silver-gold property from 1984-1992. This work included drilling totaling 104,700 feet on the Summit and adjacent structures, of which 78,000 feet was directed to the Summit structure. In 1984-85, Inspiration Mines Inc. reportedly spent about $1.5 million conducting underground development, shallow core drilling and sampling and mapping. In 1988-89, Novagold Resources Inc. reportedly expended approximately $2.0 million in surface and airborne geophysical surveys, underground mapping and sampling, and core drilling. Novagold’s drilling identified a significant block of mineralized material in the Summit vein. From 1989-1992, Biron Bay Resources Ltd., in joint venture with Novagold, conducted extensive exploration, drilled 88 core holes, and reportedly spent over $5.0 million extending and improving the level of confidence in the mineralized material at the Summit vein and in defining exploration potential in adjacent and outlying vein structures.
Geology and Mineralization
The Steeple Rock district contains numerous structurally controlled epithermal vein systems. The veins are controlled by conjugate fault systems that cut a thick pile of Tertiary volcanic rocks of intermediate composition. The deposits are localized along structurally controlled, hydrothermally altered zones cutting the volcanic host rocks. The dominant structures trend northwesterly and dip steeply. Secondary veins trend easterly and north-northwesterly. The veins can be traced for distances of up to several miles along strike and have widths that range up to 100 feet or more.
The epithermal veins have formed as open-space filling by a mixture of quartz, carbonate minerals and wallrock fragments and show evidence of multiple episodes of brecciation and re-cementation. Gold occurs as fine free grains or as electrum. Silver is found as argentite or in sulfosalts. Base metal sulfides including chalcopyrite, sphalerite and galena are common in certain deposits but rare in others. Gangue minerals usually consist of quartz, pyrite, calcite, barite and fluorite. Alteration of the volcanic country rocks adjacent to the veins commonly consists of sericitization, argillization and silicification.
The principal vein structure on the Summit silver-gold property is the Summit structure, which can be traced for 3,000 feet from southeast to northwest. The Billali structure forms a farther 2,000 foot continuation of the Summit structure in a northwesterly direction across an east-west fault. The Summit and Billali structures dip steeply to the northeast. These structures form segments of the East Camp Fault, which constitutes the main ore control in this part of the Steeple Rock district. The core drilling carried out from 1984-1992 tested both the Summit and Billali vein structures. Of the two, results from the Summit structure were the more promising with respect to vein continuity and economic potential.
The Summit mineralized vein occurs within a wide, structurally controlled zone of hydrothermally altered volcanic rocks. Silver and gold mineralization is epithermal in style and consists of silver sulfides and electrum or native gold along with lesser pyrite, sphalerite and chalcopyrite. Precious metals contents, which are relatively low at the surface, increase significantly with depth for several hundred feet, apparently a reflection of vertical mineral zoning within the deposit. Below 1,000-1,500 feet, the precious metals contents appear to decrease although little deeper drilling was carried out. The main block of mineralized material, which occurs along the footwall of the structure, has been shown by extensive drilling to trend northwesterly about 1,500 feet in strike length and to extend 1,000 feet down dip. The true width of mineralization across the footwall mineralized zone ranges from 6 feet to over 50 feet and averages 10-15 feet.
Ore Reserve
Chapman, Wood and Griswold, Inc. (“CWG”), an independent geological engineering firm, has carried out studies and reviews of the reserve/resource classification of Summit mineralization. In February 2010, CWG concluded that a portion of the mineralized material in the footwall zone can be classified as a Probable Reserve under the SEC’s Industry Guide 7, sufficient for a mine life of five years at the planned rate of production, as follows:
(1)
Assays cut to 0.45 oz Au/t and 45.0 oz Ag/ton
(2)
Diluted with 1.0 foot at grade on each wall. Minimum 6.0-foot horizontal width.
(3)
Cutoff grade 0.16 oz Au equivalent per ton, using a 60:1 gold-silver price ratio and equivalent recoveries for gold and silver.
Mineralized Material
During the evaluation of the Summit Mine mineral resource base, CWG noted significant quantities of mineralized material that cannot be classified as Reserves, as follows:
CWG stated this mineralized material has the potential to be upgraded to Reserve status following further definition by drilling and/or underground development.
Project Economic Estimate
At gold and silver prices of $1,000 and $16.67 respectively, and assuming 80% metallurgical recovery, in May 2011 CWG estimated Summit revenues over an initial five-year mine life would total approximately $144 million, and direct operating profit would total approximately $91 million. Direct operating costs were estimated as $84.50 per ton of ore milled or $364 per ounce of gold equivalent produced. The total capital cost to bring the mine into production was estimated as $18.5 million. The estimated capital cost is inclusive of mine development, mill construction, bonding requirements, and project management and working capital. CWG estimated the project could be brought into full production during 2011. Actual full tonnage production was achieved in Q2 of 2012.
Metallurgical Testing
Conventional processing including crushing, grinding and milling of Summit ore to produce a bulk sulfide flotation concentrate containing the recoverable precious metals was evaluated and tested at bench scale. Preliminary bench scale flotation tests indicated that a precious metals recovery of 80-86% with a concentration ratio of 70 to 1 would be reasonably achievable. Operating results to date at the Banner mill reflect relatively low recoveries due to processing of low grade development ore and of oxidized ores. Metallurgical testing and operational adjustments are underway that are anticipated to achieve improved operating results. Currently we are marketing the concentrate to a smelter, but believe that alternatively the concentrate could be treated to produce either a dore or pure gold and silver metal products, or could be marketed to a third-party precious metals processing operation for final extraction of gold and silver.
Processing for silica flux material requires only crushing and screening of the ore to yield a specified size fraction upgraded in silica content to meet smelter requirements. Along with the higher silica content, the precious metals content also is upgraded in the silica flux material. After crushing and screening, the crushed material that does not meet smelter specifications for silica flux is processed through the flotation plant.
Mineral Processing Equipment
With the purchase of Lordsburg Mining in May 2006, we acquired an inactive 400 ton-per-day flotation plant, including ball mill and ancillary equipment. Subsequently, in June 2008, we purchased crushing, screening and conveying equipment. In order to utilize the flotation plant for mineral processing, we transported it from its previous location near Winston, Sierra County, New Mexico, refurbished it as necessary and erected it at the Banner mill site in Hidalgo County. In addition to the processing equipment acquired in 2006, we also acquired and installed other necessary equipment.
Permits
With the purchase of Lordsburg Mining in 2006, we acquired existing operating permits for the Summit property and the Banner mill site. The New Mexico Mining and Minerals Division issued these permits to Lordsburg Mining pursuant to the New Mexico Mining Act. We modified and revised these permits as necessary in order to commence mining at the Summit mine and resume mineral processing operations at the Banner mill.
Permit No. GR001ME at the Summit mine allows operation of a “minimal impact mine”. As surface disturbance expands, it will be necessary to modify the permit and to post financial assurance for reclamation. Pursuant to the current permit, we are conducting underground mining operations.
Permit No. H1001RE at the Banner mill site is for an “existing mining operation” and authorizes us to conduct mining and reclamation operations according to the conditions stipulated in the permit. We have addressed all proposed mining disturbances under a closeout plan secured by financial assurance. We applied for and received modification and revision of the permit to allow resumption of flotation milling, construction of a tailings impoundment and discharge of tailings. We also have applied or will apply for other necessary permits, including air quality permits for the Banner mill and Summit mine.
Development Activities
In December 2007 we arranged for $13.5 million in capital for project development. We carried out construction activities in 2008 and 2009. Underground mine development is on-going. The Banner mill began processing operations in April 2010. The Summit mine achieved commercial production in Q2 of calendar 2012.
At the Summit mine, a seven hundred foot 12’ x 13’ decline ramp intersected the predicted mineralized body in February 2009. From that point, two development headings were driven in the main mineralized structure, one an incline to the southeast planned to intersect old workings and to serve as a secondary escape and a source of additional ventilation, and the other a decline to the northwest toward additional mineralized bodies identified in previous drilling. The southeastern heading achieved its objectives in October 2009. The northwestern heading encountered the southern extensions of the predicted mineralized bodies in August 2009. Other level drifts have been developed from the original northwest heading to develop stope panels. Over 12,400 feet of underground development has been accomplished and work is proceeding on several headings. Stope development and test mining of ore bodies has been carried out and an ore panel referred to as the S-1 stopewas developed for extraction by blasthole stoping. Blasthole drill levels were driven in this panel at vertical intervals of 50 feet at four elevations, with the objective of beginning blasthole stoping operations and ramping up production to the full production rate of 400 tons per day. Stoping commenced in November of 2011, and the production rate goal was achieved at the mine during Q2 of calendar 2012. Assays of mineralized bodies encountered to date show variable silver and gold values, with occasional very high grades encountered, as is to be expected from this style of epithermal mineralization. Mineralized material encountered in mine development activities is segregated at the mine and trucked to the Lordsburg mill site. Development operations are proceeding on the basis of two 10-hour shifts five days a week. Present operations are focused on accelerating access to higher grade portions of the mineral resource to the northwest and below the current development level.
At the Banner mill, processing operations commenced in April 2010. Commissioning of the mill proceeded satisfactorily. Sales of ore as silica flux and sales of precious metals flotation concentrates began in 2010. Ramp-up of mill throughput is taking place in conjunction with increased output from the Summit mine. The mill and flux output are expected to match the mine full tonnage production rate in Q3 of calendar 2012.
Operating Results
Ongoing development has resulted in increased production of mineralized material from the Summit mine. Monthly mine output reached the target full production level of 10,000 tons by the end of Q2 of calendar year 2012. Resulting materials processed through the Banner mill or shipped as smelter flux for fiscal year 2012 (July 2011 through June 2012) totaled 54,678.31 dry tons averaging 4.55 opt (ounces per ton) Ag and 0.080 opt Au. Approximately 45% of this production was derived from the S-1 and S-2 stoping areas, and the remainder came from development drifts in the S-1 and N-1 areas. This production is summarized below:
The Banner mill produces a flotation concentrate which during fiscal year 2012 was shipped to the Aurubis smelter in Germany. During the fiscal year, 181.2 tons of concentrate were sold to Aurubis with a total payable metal content (after smelter payment deductions) of 1,413 ounces of gold and 80,299 ounces of silver. The total flux shipments of 24,621 tons yielded 1,299 ounces of payable gold and 103,548 ounces of payable silver. Combined metal production was 2,712 ounces of payable gold and 183,847 ounces of payable silver.
Potential Expansion of Proposed Initial Operation
Establishment of the proposed mining operation at Summit potentially allows the Company to further expand the current base of mineralized material at the Summit deposit and to develop other properties in the Steeple Rock mining district. The Banner flotation mill at Lordsburg also might generate mining and processing opportunities from our ground holdings adjacent to the Banner mill site in the Lordsburg mining district and/or from surrounding mining districts, several of which historically have yielded substantial production of base and precious metals.
Ortiz Gold Project
Overview
In August 2004, Santa Fe acquired exclusive rights for exploration, development and mining of gold and other minerals on 57,267 acres (approximately 90 square miles) of the Ortiz Mine Grant in Santa Fe County, New Mexico. In November 2007, we relinquished 14,970 acres and retained under lease 42,297 acres (66 square miles).
In December 2005, using historical resources and pit designs, we received the results of an independent scoping study for the open pit mining of approximately 1.0 million ounces of gold from the Carache and Lucas gold deposits. The study assessed various processing options for development and provided estimations of capital and operating costs for each option. It also included an economic analysis complete with sensitivities on gold price, capital and operating costs. The report concluded that the financial results indicated a favorable gold project employing high pressure grinding rolls with gravity recovery and contract mining. The report also stated that considerable upside existed in estimations of mineralized material in both contained ounces and grade. We currently have not established proven or probable reserves on the Ortiz gold property. The historical mineral resources, pit designs and December 2005 scoping study are not compliant with SEC Guide 7 or Canadian NI 43-101. They should not be relied upon and Santa Fe does not treat them as current.
We plan to proceed with studies necessary to advance the Ortiz project. This work will include an assessment of the historical resources that were calculated from previous drilling, metallurgical testing and design of conceptual open pits for the Carache and Lucas deposits. This work will form the basis for further evaluation of mining and processing options and a preliminary economic assessment. We also intend to begin an assessment of permitting and environmental issues, which would be important for any mining development.
Location and Access
The Ortiz Mine Grant, over which we hold a lease on the mineral estate underlying 42,297 acres (66 square miles) of segregated surface estate, is located 30 miles by road northeast of Albuquerque, in Townships 12, 13 and 14 North, Ranges 7 and 8 East, N.M.P.M., Santa Fe County, New Mexico. The villages of Golden, Madrid and Cerrillos, with a combined population of less than 1,000 people, lie in and adjacent to the Grant. Paved New Mexico Highway 14 traverses the western portion of the Grant. The main line of the Santa Fe Railway crosses the northeast corner of the Grant. A network of unimproved ranch roads provides access to the various land holdings. High-voltage electric power lines cross the southern part of the Grant.
Terrain in the Grant is hilly to mountainous, with elevations ranging from 6,000 feet in the valleys to nearly 9,000 feet in the Ortiz Mountains. Annual participation averages 12 inches. Vegetation is sparse but varied as is typical of the high deserts of the Southwest.
The Grant is largely undeveloped and population is sparse. The land is utilized mainly for cattle grazing. Other activities include limited subdivision development in the northern part of the Grant, and mine reclamation work at the former Gold Field Ortiz (Cunningham Hill) mine site.
Figure X.2
Claim Boundary Map
Mineral Title
On August 1, 2004, we entered into an option and lease agreement with Ortiz Mines, Inc. (“Ortiz Mines”), a New Mexico corporation, whereby we acquired exclusive rights for exploration, development and mining of gold, silver, copper and other minerals on 57,267 acres (approximately 90 square miles) of the Ortiz Mine Grant in Santa Fe County, New Mexico. In November 2007, we relinquished 14,970 acres and retained under lease 42,297 acres (66 square miles). We paid an initial sum of $20,000 for a six-month option, and on February 1, 2005, paid the additional sum of $30,000 in order to exercise the option and enter into the lease and also to satisfy the obligation of the first year’s lease payment. Since February 1, 2006, we have paid annual lease payments, the last payment of $130,000 in January 2012 satisfying the lease payment through January 31, 2013.
On May 1, 2010, we agreed with Ortiz Mines, Inc., to amend the terms of the lease. Under the amended terms, the lease provides for an extension of the initial term from seven to ten years (17 years in certain circumstances), continuing year-to-year thereafter for so long as we are producing gold or other leased minerals in commercial quantities and otherwise are performing our obligations under the lease. Among other terms, the amended lease provides for annual lease payments of $130,000; a sliding-scale production royalty varying from 3% to 5% depending on the price of gold; the requirement that we comply with governmental permitting and other regulations; and other terms common in mining leases of this type. The Ortiz gold project is subject to a property identification agreement between us and our President and Chief Executive Officer. See Item 13. “ Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”.
On August 31, 2011, the Company filed a Complaint in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico against Ortiz Mines, Inc., in connection with Ortiz Mines purported termination of the Company’s exclusive leasehold rights to explore, develop and mine gold, silver, copper and other minerals on the Ortiz Mine Grant in Santa Fe County, New Mexico. On May 22, 2012, the parties settled the litigation between them. The settlement agreement confirmed the continuation of Santa Fe’s exclusive leasehold rights. In connection with the settlement, we agreed, subject to certain qualifications, to expend at least $500,000 by November 22, 2012, and a total of $1,000,000 by May 22, 2013, on work programs in support of project development.
History of Mining and Exploration
Prospecting and mining of gold and silver in the Ortiz area dates to the arrival of the first European (Spanish) settlers in 1598. Significant gold production from Ortiz placers dates to 1821. By 1832 several veins and low-grade gold deposits had been discovered. In 1833 the Ortiz Land Grant, an area about 10.7 miles square centered on the Ortiz gold vein, was registered and possession given by the First Alcade of the City of Santa Fe. By the early 1840’s, mining at the small underground Ortiz Mine had ceased. In the late 1800’s and early 1900’s, sporadic attempts at commercial mining of lode and placer gold deposits were unsuccessful due to lack of water and/or low grades. Total pre-1980 mine production has been estimated as about 100,000 ounces of gold.
The entire Grant was validated by the United States in 1860 under the terms of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The owners received fee simple title to the surface and minerals and the area became known as the Ortiz Mine Grant. Subsequently the Grant changed hands and the surface was sold subject to reservation of the mineral estate. In 1959 the mineral-interest owners and associates formed Ortiz Mines, Inc. for the purpose of promoting and marketing the mineral estate.
In 1973, Consolidated Gold Fields leased the eastern portion of the Grant from Ortiz Mines, Inc. and developed and mined the Cunningham Hill deposit (Ortiz Mine). In the period 1980-1986, Gold Fields produced approximately 250,000 ounces of gold from an open-pit, heap-leach operation.
From 1972 through the early 1990’s, several companies operating under lease with Ortiz Mines, Inc. carried out exploration and pre-development activities in the western portion of the Grant. These companies included Conoco, Inc., LAC Minerals (USA), Inc. and the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture. Expenditures by these groups are estimated to have exceeded $40 million. Drilling resulted in the identification of gold mineralization in several deposits.
The LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture carried out the majority of the work in the western portion of the Grant, from 1989-1992. The Joint Venture focused on gold mineralization in two deposits in the southwestern part of the Grant, namely the Carache Canyon (“Carache”) and Lucas Canyon (“Lucas”) deposits. These two deposits were the subject of 386,000 feet of core and reverse-circulation drilling, metallurgical testing and pre-feasibility studies carried out by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture and by consulting firms and contractors engaged by the Joint Venture.
Independent Mining Consultants, Inc. (“IMC”), an independent geological engineering firm, was engaged by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture to audit estimations of the quantities and grades of in-place resources at the Carache and Lucas deposits and to prepare conceptual open pit mine plans. In 1992, IMC estimated the Carache gold deposit, within the boundaries of a conceptual open pit, to contain a resource of 11.8 million tons grading 0.060 ounces of gold per ton, with a waste-to-ore stripping ratio of 8.3:1. IMC estimated the Lucas gold deposit, within the boundaries of a conceptual open pit, to contain a resource of 7.6 million tons grading 0.043 ounces of gold per ton and 0.22% copper, with a stripping ratio of 2.2:1. The historical figures presented herein are not NI 43-101 compliant. They should not be relied upon and Santa Fe Gold does not treat them as current mineral resources or mineral reserves as defined in sections 1.2 and 1.3 of NI 43-101. Santa Fe has reviewed the reports describing the historical work conducted and believes the work to have been carried out in a professional manner and to be both relevant and reliable, however has not independently verified the work and a qualified person has not done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources or mineral reserves. IMC classified the majority of the resources in the two pits as “Proven and Probable”, using indicator kriging as the estimation method, and the remaining as “Possible”, using polygonal calculation. Santa Fe believes IMC’s resource classifications of “Proven and Probable” and “Possible” correspond approximately to the NI 43-101 section 1.2 resource definitions of “Measured and Indicated” and “Inferred”, respectively.
Under SEC Guideline 7, proven and probable reserves have not been established on the Ortiz deposits. All of the mineralization described above should be referred to as “mineralized material”.
In 1989, the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture started a decline adit into the Carache deposit for the purpose of bulk sampling and to provide drilling access for shallow and deep exploration targets. However, after advancing 1719 feet the decline was halted due to a temporary water inflow coupled with regulatory issues. In the face of a declining gold price, mining development of the Carache or Lucas deposits did not proceed, and the project ultimately was cancelled and the lease returned to Ortiz Mines, Inc. Subsequently, no additional exploration was carried out and the property remained dormant until we leased it in August 2004.
Geology and Mineralization
The Ortiz Mine Grant is underlain by mid-Tertiary monzonite and latite porphyry stocks, plugs, dikes and sills that have intruded Paleozoic to early-Tertiary sedimentary rocks. The intrusive rocks are part of the Ortiz Porphyry Belt, which comprises from north to south, the Cerrillos Hills, the Ortiz Mountains, the San Pedro Mountains, and South Mountain. Structurally, the Grant straddles the Tijeras-Canoncito fault system, a northeast trending zone of fault-bounded horsts and grabens. This fault zone is a segment of a deep-seated crustal break that has been active intermittently since Precambrian time and has provided a zone of weakness for the emplacement of granitic magmas and associated mineralization. Late-stage volcanism resulted in the formation of breccia pipes and zones of intense fracturing that provided access for hydrothermal fluids carrying gold, silver, tungsten, molybdenum and base metals.
The Ortiz Porphyry Belt exhibits a number of styles of mineralization that occur in a variety of geologic settings:
Gold-tungsten mineralization in a breccia pipe at Cunningham Hill adjacent to a volcanic vent, the Ortiz diatreme.
Gold mineralization associated with a collapse breccia at Carache Canyon.
Copper and gold disseminated in stockworks and fractures in monzonite at the Cunningham Gulch (gold) and Cerrillos (copper-gold) deposits (bulk tonnage low-grade “porphyry”-type deposits).
Copper - gold skarns in calcareous rocks at Lucas Canyon and San Pedro.
Lead - zinc - silver veins at the Cash Entry and other old mines north of Cerrillos.
Lead - zinc - silver pipe-like mantos in limestone at the Carnahan mine, San Pedro area.
Molybdenite in stockworks and fractures in the San Lazarus monzonite stock, San Pedro area.
Placer gold deposits on Cunningham Mesa, on the northern pediment of the San Pedro Mountains, and in most of the arroyos draining the Ortiz and San Pedro Mountains.
At the Carache gold deposit, relatively coarse-grained free gold is contained in open space fractures developed in four gently dipping andesite porphyry sills and a sandstone unit around the collapsed margins of a breccia pipe. At the Lucas gold-copper deposit, mineralization occurs in garnet skarn developed in a limestone unit, the outcropping portion of which forms a dip slope at the surface.
Scoping Study of the Carache and Lucas Gold Deposits
In October 2005, we commissioned Mineral Advisory Group, LLC (“MAG”) of Tucson, Arizona, an independent geological engineering firm, to carry out an engineering review and scoping study of the Carache and Lucas gold deposits, utilizing as a technical base the information generated by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture in 1989-1991. MAG’s study, which was completed in December 2005, assessed various processing options for development and provided estimations of capital and operating costs for each option. It also included an economic analysis complete with sensitivities on gold price, capital and operating costs.
The MAG report was prepared in accordance with different standards than those prescribed by rules of the SEC. The SEC only permits the disclosure of proven or probable reserves, which in turn, require the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic feasibility of mining and processing the mineralized material. We have not received a feasibility study with regard to our Ortiz property. We currently have not established proven or probable reserves on the Ortiz property.
The processing options MAG analyzed included heap leaching, ball milling/gravity concentration, and high pressure grinding rolls/gravity concentration (“HPGR option”). The optimum processing route was identified as the HPGR option. The HPGR option was estimated to be able to achieve gold recovery employing simple gravity concentration while minimizing capital and operating costs. As compared to heap leaching (the processing route previously advanced by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture), the HPGR option also potentially would have advantages with respect to environmental disturbance and permitting in that the area of surface disturbance would be smaller, chemicals would not be required in processing and there would be less water usage.
Based on pre-1990 drilling estimations by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture, mineralized material from the two deposits totals 29.1 million tons averaging 0.035 ounces of gold per ton at a cut-off grade of 0.01 ounces per ton, within the boundaries of two conceptual pits previously designed by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture. MAG’s scoping study assumed this material would be mined at the rate of 3 million tons per year. The average stripping ratio (waste-to-mineralized material) was calculated as 2.6: 1.
MAG’s report concluded, “The financial conclusions drawn from this study indicate a very favorable project employing High Pressure Grinding Rolls with gravity recovery and contract mining.” The report also stated that upside exists in estimations of mineralized material in both contained ounces of gold and grade, as had been concluded previously by the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture.
The historical resource figures presented herein and the MAG December 2005 Scoping Study are not NI 43-101 compliant. They should not be relied upon and Santa Fe does not treat the resources as current mineral resources or mineral reserves as defined in sections 1.2 and 1.3 of NI 43-101. Santa Fe Gold has reviewed the reports describing the historical work conducted and believes the work to have been carried out in a professional manner, however the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture calculated resources using a polygonal method and results show significantly lower grades as compared to those in IMC’s study described above, which employed indicator kriging. As the IMC methodology may provide more accurate resource estimations, the LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture estimate may not be relevant or reliable. Santa Fe Gold has not independently verified the work and a qualified person has not done sufficient work to classify the historical estimate as current mineral resources or mineral reserves. The LAC-Pegasus Joint Venture classified the majority of the resources in the two pits as “Proven and Probable”, and the remaining as “Possible”, using a polygonal method. Santa Fe believes the resource classifications of “Proven and Probable” and “Possible” correspond approximately to the NI 43-101 section 1.2 resource definition of “Measured and Indicated” and “Inferred”, respectively.
Under SEC Guideline 7, proven and probable reserves have not been established on the Ortiz deposits. All of the mineralization described above should be referred to as “mineralized material”.
Permitting
Mining and processing operations at the Ortiz gold property would require permits from the state and federal governments and also would be subject to county regulations. We have not applied for or obtained such permits, which require the completion of additional technical, environmental and other work. We may be unable to obtain such permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving such permits, any timetable and business plan for development and mining of the Ortiz gold property could be adversely affected.
Work Program
Over the next 12 months, we plan to conduct additional studies necessary to advance the Ortiz project. The work planned includes carrying out a NI43-101 report and preliminary economic assessment of the Carache and Lucas gold deposits. The study will include bringing current the historical resources from previous drilling, additional metallurgical testing, and redesign of open pits. We plan also to proceed with surface access agreements and to begin baseline environmental surveys. Results from these studies will form the basis for further evaluation of development options. We expect this work to form a sound basis upon which to formulate plans and budgets for advancement of the Carache and Lucas gold deposits.
We also plan to continue evaluation of the large 66 square mile area under lease for its exploration potential for new discoveries of gold and copper deposits. In this regard, we will continue to utilize the large quantity of existing geological, geochemical, geophysical and drilling data.
We have budgeted $1,000,000 for the work to be carried out over the next 12 months which is included in our 12 month and 36 month capital requirements listed in ITEM 7.
Black Canyon Mica Project
Overview
Santa Fe acquired the Black Canyon mica project in 1999 and spent $15 million in establishing mining and processing facilities at the mine site north of Phoenix, Arizona, and at a separate processing plant in Glendale, Arizona. In 2002, we commissioned the processing facilities at the mine site and in Glendale, operated for several months on a test basis and achieved limited production and commercial sales. However, design capacity of the processing facilities was not achieved due to undercapitalization. In November 2002, after unsuccessful attempts to raise the additional capital necessary to expand plant capacity in order to reach design capacity and to provide working capital, we suspended crushing and concentrating activities at the Black Canyon mica mine. After the suspension of operations, limited production, marketing and sales continued through 2005 at the Glendale mica processing facility using inventoried mica. Subsequently, we removed the processing equipment from the Glendale plant and Black Canyon mine and placed it into storage.
While it operated on a test basis in 2002, the project achieved limited production and commercial sales. The operation was successful in achieving two important objectives. First, it demonstrated the facilities were capable of producing the planned range of products. Second, it validated the high quality and market acceptability of the two main product lines, namely high-end wet-ground mica, targeted for high value applications in the plastics and cosmetic industries; and feldspathic sand, targeted for the Phoenix construction and recreational markets.
In 2003-2005, Santa Fe sold, from inventory, limited quantities of its engineered mica-filled plastic pellets and mica powders to a number of companies, including Dupont Canada and Revlon. The commercial orders to Dupont followed a program of testing and product development conducted jointly with Dupont. Dupont used Santa Fe Gold’s plastic pellets in its own formulations to produce plastic end products that it supplied to the automotive industry. Santa Fe Gold also supplied its high quality mica powder to the cosmetic industry through distributors, with Revlon as one of the important customers.
In 2003, we sold our entire inventory of feldspathic sand to customers in the Phoenix area.
Santa Fe is seeking a joint venture partner to contribute new funding in the amount of $10.0 million to reinstall the mica processing equipment at a new location, to upgrade and expand the mining facilities in order to reach planned capacity and to provide working capital. These expansions are required in order to achieve the higher throughput necessary for sustained economic operation.
Location and Access
The Black Canyon mine is located 30 miles north of Phoenix, Arizona, and 3.5 miles west-southwest of Black Canyon City. It can be reached via U.S. Interstate 17, which connects Phoenix with Flagstaff, and by a connecting dirt road for the last eight miles. The Glendale processing plant was located in an industrial area on the west side of Phoenix, Arizona, 47 miles to the south of the mine site.
Figure X.3
Claim Boundary Map
Mineral Title
Our property holdings at and around the Black Canyon mine consist of 67 federal unpatented mining claims in Yavapai County, Arizona and 9 federal unpatented mill site claims in Maricopa County, Arizona, which in total cover approximately 1,385 acres. The claims are located on public land and held pursuant to the General Mining Law of 1872. We fully own the mining rights and believe the claims are in good standing in accordance with the mining laws of the United States.
In order to maintain our claims in good standing, we must pay annual assessment fees to the Bureau of Land Management and record the payment of rental fees with Yavapai and Maricopa Counties. Annual assessment and recording costs total approximately $11,000. We have paid the required fees for the 2012 and 2013 assessment years (September 1, 2011 through August 31, 2013).
Mining and Processing Facilities
The Black Canyon project formerly consisted of two integrated operating facilities. The mine site west-southwest of Black Canyon City contains the mineralized material. The crusher, the concentrator and the feldspathic sand plant were located at the mine site. These facilities depended on diesel generators for power. Our plans called for mining to be carried out by conventional open pit methods. The mineralized material would be trucked from the pit and delivered to a nearby stockpile located adjacent to the crusher and concentrator. Mica flakes would be separated from the pegmatite host rock in a process that involves multi-stage crushing and screening to -3/16” size. Mica would be concentrated from the crushed material utilizing air classifiers. The resulting concentrate, containing 95% mica, would be trucked to the processing plant for further processing.
In the mica concentrating process at the mine site, the majority of the crushed host rock, which otherwise would be discarded as waste, would be converted into feldspathic sand for sale into the local Phoenix market. Processing of the feldspathic sand would involve screening and magnetic separation to yield sand fractions of various sizes. The sand products would be either bagged for shipment or trucked in bulk to customers.
During 2002-2004, we processed mica concentrate at the 5-acre Glendale plant and office site on the west side of Phoenix. The processing was designed to achieve the desired product sizes and meet the quality requirements of the market place. The plant was housed in an 18,000 square foot steel framed building, where equipment was installed for wet grinding, dewatering, drying, and air classification and bagging. The final products were placed into 50-pound bags or into 1000-pound supersacks ready for shipment to customers.
Permits
In 1999, we obtained approval for the Black Canyon Plan of Operations from the Bureau of Land Management and the State of Arizona. An Environmental Assessment, Clean Water Act Permit and Air Quality Procedures were all approved. An Aquifer Protection Permit was not required because processing operations at the mine site did not propose the use of water. We have completed reclamation of the mining site as required under the Plan of Operations. Any redevelopment of the Black Canyon project would require repermitting.
Geology and Mineralization
The mica deposits occur as pegmatite dikes cutting Precambrian schist and granite. These dikes are steeply dipping tabular bodies, continuous along strike and with depth. The main pegmatite dikes are hosted by the schist and have a northeasterly trend parallel to the structural grain of the schist. Because the light colored pegmatite dikes are more resistant to weathering than is the enclosing schist, the dikes stand out at the surface as elongated light colored ridges relatively easy to discern and to map geologically.
In the area of the drilled mineralization, a concentration of pegmatite occurs as a dike swarm and as massive irregular bodies of pegmatite. An associated major structure, the Central Pit fault, appears to have created a zone of dilation that provided open space for intrusion of the pegmatite. Drilling has identified seven individual dikes that range from approximately 4 feet to over 20 feet in thickness. At the surface, massive pegmatite crops out over a width exceeding 50 feet.
The minerals of potential economic value are all found associated with the pegmatite dikes, and consist of muscovite mica, feldspar and silica. Muscovite mica, the principal commodity, constitutes a major accessory mineral of the pegmatite dikes and is ubiquitous in the pegmatite. Based on visual estimates of drill core, the content of muscovite in the pegmatite ranges from 5% to 35%. The muscovite is light to whitish green in color and occurs as discrete, coarse-grained inclusions as well as fine-grained disseminations in the pegmatite. Feldspar and silica, by-products of the proposed mining operation, make up most of the remaining component minerals of the pegmatite on about a 1:1 ratio.
Estimation of Mineralized Material
In 1998 and 1999, we drilled 41 inclined core holes and collected 59 samples of pegmatite exposed on the surface, at two central locations. The drill holes and surface samples were spaced approximately 50 feet apart. The holes ranged from 200 to 600 feet in length, and drilling totaled 13,070 feet. The drilling covered only a small portion of the zones of outcropping mica-bearing rocks mapped on our mining claims.
Mintec Inc., an independent geological engineering firm, analyzed our drilling and sampling results, designed the mining plan and calculated an estimation of mineralized material. In-place mineralized material for the pit design was calculated as 2,399,500 tons of material grading 7.54% mica and 1,527,200 tons of additional material grading 7.37% mica, for total mineralized material of 3,926,680 tons grading 7.48% mica, at a cutoff grade of 2.47% mica. Approximately 60% of the mica contained in this mineralized material is expected to be recoverable after losses due to mining and beneficiation.
Mica
Our mineralized material contains high quality muscovite or “white mica”. Mica is a mineral characterized by crystals that can be easily split into thin elastic sheets and is valued for its unique combination of chemical, physical, electrical, thermal and mechanical properties. Muscovite exhibits perfect cleavage, flexibility and elasticity, infusibility, low thermal and electrical conductivity, high dielectric strength, light weight, good insulating characteristics, and is stable when exposed to moisture, light and high temperatures. Because of these properties, muscovite has found widespread application in plastics, automotive coatings, cosmetics, paints, catalysis and composite formulations. We believe, once adequate financing is obtained, that the project has the potential to produce 10,000 tons (20 million pounds) annually of premium wet-ground mica. For the project to be successful, we would need to penetrate existing markets and to establish our own markets in plastics, cosmetics and ultra-micronized applications.
Feldspathic Sand
Our feldspathic sand was produced as a by-product of mica concentration and was screened and sized for sale into the Phoenix construction and recreational markets. Products included golf course bunker sand and sand used in stucco, mortar and other specialized construction applications. The project is designed to produce 180,000 tons of feldspathic sand products annually. The demand for manufactured sand in the Phoenix construction market has decreased significantly in recent years because of the collapse in the housing market.
Sand producers in California and Nevada supply sand to the Phoenix manufactured sand market. Because the material has to be trucked long distances in order to reach Phoenix, trucking costs are significant and constitute a substantial proportion of the final selling price. The location of our Black Canyon mine only 30 miles from Phoenix may provide a transportation cost advantage over competitors who import sand into Arizona.
Work Program
Over the next 12 months, we plan to seek a joint venture partner to contribute the estimated $10.0 million in new funding necessary to advance the Black Canyon mica project to full production. The new funding would be used to fund an updated feasibility study, re-establish crushing and concentrating facilities at the Black Canyon mine, install the mica processing equipment at a new location and upgrade and expand the mining and processing facilities in order to reach planned capacity and to provide working capital. These expansions are required in order to achieve the higher throughput necessary for sustained economic operation. As an alternative to arranging the $10.0 million of new funding required for production, we are seeking to divest of the project.
Planet Micaceous Iron Oxide (“MIO”) Project
Overview
In 2002, Santa Fe leased the Planet property for its potential to produce micaceous iron oxide (“MIO”). In August 2008, we exercised our option to purchase the property. The Planet property consists of thirty-one patented mining claims totaling 523 acres located in western Arizona.
MIO is an uncommon flake-like form of crystalline hematite (Fe2O3) valued for the anti-corrosive properties it contributes to coatings formulated to protect structural steelwork. MIO is an increasingly recognized eco-friendly base pigment used in coating systems on many of the world’s largest bridges, oil rigs, production platforms, transmission towers, pipelines, industrial plants and superstructures.
Results of work to date indicate the Planet property contains a MIO deposit, one of the largest deposits of its kind in the world and unique to North America. The deposit appears to have the characteristics necessary to produce MIO from open pit mining at a relatively low production cost as compared to commercial operations currently in production. Metallurgical work suggests that a high quality MIO product may be able to be successfully produced. As is characteristic of industrial mineral operations, marketing would play a critical role in the success of any new MIO operation and is identified as an important factor for successful development.
We plan to continue pre-feasibility assessment of the Planet project.
Location and Access
The Planet property is located in the northwest corner of La Paz County, west central Arizona. It lies just south of the Bill Williams River twelve miles above its junction with the Colorado River. The property is reached by road, either via the Swansea gravel road, twenty-eight miles north from the town of Bouse; or via the Osborne Well paved and gravel road, twenty-five miles east from the town of Parker.
The topography of the property is rugged, with hills 100 to 500 feet high cut by numerous steep-sided canyons. Average elevation is 800 feet. The desert climate is typical of western Arizona, hot and dry in summer but mild in winter. Vegetation is sparse and confined mainly to the bottoms of the larger drainages.
The project is well served by existing infrastructure for both construction and operation. All-weather roads connect the Planet property to the town of Parker, situated on the Colorado River with a population of about 4,000. Highways connect Parker to two east-west interstate trucking routes, I-10 and I-40, respectively 35 miles to the south and 60 miles to the north. Parker also is served by the Arizona & California Railroad, which is part of the national rail system.
Electric power, water and other infrastructure are readily available at industrial sites in Parker. Fabrication and construction services, and a wide range of commercial and support services also are available in Parker and other nearby communities. The labor force required for a plant operation could be sourced locally.
Figure X.4
Claim Boundary Map
Mineral Title
The property consists of thirty-one patented mining claims totaling 523 acres, comprising an area 3,600 feet wide by 8,000 feet long. We leased the property, with an option to purchase, in September 2000 from the underlying owner, New Planet Copper Mining Company, for its potential to produce MIO. In 2008, in settlement of a dispute with the owner, we agreed to exercise our option to purchase the property for the purchase price of $250,000. We paid an initial purchase payment of $50,000 in 2008 and payments of principal and interest of $63,094 each in 2009, 2010 and 2011. One payment of $63,094 remains to be paid in 2012. There also is provision for a 5% royalty to be paid on any future production.
History of Mining and Exploration
The Planet deposit was worked for its copper value from 1863 until l884, and then intermittently through the early 1900’s. Several shafts were sunk and 8,000 feet of underground workings were developed. High-grade copper ore was extracted and shipped to Swansea, Wales, and to San Francisco. The last mining activity took place between 1915 and 1918 when all remaining high-grade ore was mined and shipped. In total, the property produced approximately 50,000 tons of ore grading 10% copper.
Between 1942 and 1944, the U. S. Bureau of Mines investigated the quantity and quality of mineralized material containing iron oxide at the Planet deposit. This work was conducted as part of the wartime evaluation of potential domestic sources of strategic minerals, including sources of iron ore for the steel industry. The Bureau carried out geologic mapping and sampling, and conducted drilling programs utilizing both churn and diamond drilling methods. The information that resulted from this work was compiled and recorded in Report of Investigations 3982, “Exploration of the New Planet Iron Deposit”. We believe that the information is reliable and of good quality. In 1945, it was used by the Bureau to calculate the tonnage and grade of mineralized material containing iron oxide at the Planet deposit.
Work Completed
Work completed since acquisition of the project includes recovery and surveying of the U. S. Bureau of Mines drill holes from 1942-1944; aerial photography and production of orthophotographs and topographic base maps; compilation of a comprehensive digital database and construction of a computerized block model incorporating all geological, geochemical and assay data; estimations of tonnage and grades of mineralized material containing iron oxide; design of conceptual open pits; preliminary metallurgical testing of MIO material; studies of MIO markets; and conduct of scoping studies to assess the project’s potential for production.
Geology and Mineralization
At the Planet deposit, MIO deposits associated with a mid-Tertiary, flat-lying, regional detachment fault are found in the Triassic Buckskin Formation. Rocks in the upper plate above the fault are composed of schist, limestone, hydrothermal carbonate and quartzite. Lower-plate rocks are gneisses. The upper and lower plates are separated by fault breccias up to 60 feet thick. The main mineralized bodies at the Planet deposit are found in the lower part of the upper plate, adjacent to and above the detachment fault. They occur as tabular replacements of hydrothermal carbonate, limestone and schist. The overall trend of the mineralized bodies is north fifty-five degrees east, and the plunge is eight to nine degrees to the southwest. Individual bodies dip ten to twenty degrees to the northwest.
The mineralized bodies form discontinuous lenses, irregular bodies and veins that individually are as much as 700 feet long, 250 feet wide, and 50 feet thick. Mineralized material consists dominantly of specularite and massive hematite with some limonite, malachite, azurite, chrysocolla, and minor pyrite, chalcopyrite, bornite, gold, and silver. Associated minerals include quartz and calcite. The mineralized material is silicified and very hard at the surface and to a depth of ten feet, but underground it is soft and powdery.
The U. S. Bureau of Mines and Santa Fe each estimated the quantities and grades of mineralized material containing iron oxide at the Planet deposit. In 1945, the Bureau of Mines estimated the deposit contained 1.4 million tons averaging 60 percent iron (85.8% Fe2O3). The Bureau based this estimation on work it had carried out during 1942-1944, including drilling of twelve churn holes aggregating 3,742 feet, and ten diamond holes totaling 569 feet; and mapping, surveying, and sampling of surface outcrops and underground workings.
Our new, more detailed estimations employed computerized analytical methods and construction of a block model. We estimated that a total of 1.4 million tons of mineralized material grading 44.4% iron would be contained in three conceptually designed open pits. In carrying out our study, we compiled a comprehensive digital database incorporating relevant information from all sources. The database relied heavily on the information available from the Bureau of Mines, including geologic and assay data from drill holes, and results of surface and underground channel sampling. The database contained new survey information that tied the locations of drill holes and underground workings to accurate topographic maps generated from aerial photographs.
The SEC only permits the disclosure of proven or probable reserves, which in turn, require the preparation of a feasibility study demonstrating the economic feasibility of mining and processing the mineralized material. We have not received a feasibility study with regard to our Planet property. We currently have not established proven or probable reserves on the Planet property.
Conceptual Mining and Processing Plan
As presently conceived, the Planet mining and processing operation would involve open-pit mining of MIO mineralized material, primary crushing of the material at the mine site, and trucking of the crushed material twenty-five miles to a processing plant to be located at an industrial site near Parker. At the plant site, metallurgical processing would be straightforward, and based on results from preliminarily metallurgical testing, would include grinding, classification, selective flotation or other method of separating the MIO, and filtration and drying to yield recovery of MIO and red iron oxide, a secondary product. A stockpile of mineralized material sufficient for plant operation would be maintained at the plant site. Because only small tonnages of material would need to be mined during the early years of operation, we believe mining and related activities would be carried out most efficiently on a periodic, campaign basis utilizing outside contractors. The project is well situated with respect to development infrastructure and transportation networks. MIO mineralized material is non-toxic and we see no significant environmental issues that would hinder development.
Micaceous Iron Oxide
MIO is an uncommon flake-like form of crystalline hematite (Fe2O3) valued for the anti-corrosive properties it contributes to coatings formulated to protect structural steelwork. MIO improves UV stability, adhesion, surface tolerance and abrasion resistance, and significantly increases coating life. It also has the advantage of being non-toxic to the environment. In Europe and Asia, MIO is the most important barrier pigment used to protect structural steelwork from corrosion. For many years it has been employed with outstanding success on bridges, oilrigs, transmission towers, pipelines, storage tanks, industrial plants and structural steelwork of all descriptions. The Eiffel Tower and Sydney Harbor Bridge are two examples.
Based on limited available market data, world production of MIO is estimated to be 20,000-30,000 tons (40-60 million lbs) annually, of which Europe and Asia consume over eighty percent. Prices are quoted in the range $0.40 -$.60 per pound for top quality material. Commercial deposits of high quality MIO are geologically rare. One supplier from underground mines in Austria has dominated the world market for many years; however, production from that source has been declining. Elsewhere around the world, production comes from only a handful of suppliers, operating on a small scale and, we believe, at high production costs.
The United States uses only a relatively small amount of MIO pigment as compared to other regions of the world. Lack of a domestic source of MIO has forced U. S. paint manufacturers to depend on imports and has restricted market expansion for MIO. The Planet project, if developed, would establish a domestic source of MIO pigment.
Historically, domestic paint manufactures have used zinc, rather than MIO, in anti-corrosion coatings of structural steelwork. However, underlying economic and environmental factors could result in a shift in usage to MIO. Increases in zinc prices, we believe, could create a competitive price advantage for MIO. In addition, MIO is non-toxic to the environment, another advantage that can be expected to grow in future importance.
Lordsburg Exploration Project
In June 2010 we commenced an exploration program on our extensive ground holdings in the Lordsburg (Virginia) Mining District, where we control approximately 1,500 acres of prospective ground, the majority of which is comprised of patented mining claims that we own, and the remainder patented and unpatented mining claims that we lease. To date we have completed an aerial mapping survey covering 30 square miles, carried out data compilation, conducted detailed geologic mapping and sampling, and conducted a geophysical survey. This work has been successful in identifying promising exploration targets, which we plan to drill. Recorded historic production from the Lordsburg Mining District, at today’s metal prices, has exceeded $1.0 billion in copper, gold and silver. The majority of this historic production came from mines on ground that we now control. We are conducting the Lordsburg exploration program pursuant to our long term strategy of finding sources of ore to augment ore from the Summit silver-gold mine, in order to fully utilize the excess capacity of the Banner mill.
Glossary
Alluvium
Unconsolidated gravel, sand, silt and clay deposited by streams.
Andesite
A common fine-grained continental lava containing sodium feldspar, no quartz and associated with mountain-making processes.
Argentite
Silver sulfide mineral, a common source of silver.
Argillization
Alteration of feldspars to form clay minerals, especially in wall rocks adjacent to mineral veins.
Azurite
Blue hydrous copper carbonate mineral formed in oxide zone of copper deposit.
Barite
Barium sulfate mineral, the main source of barium.
Bornite
Copper-iron sulfide mineral, an important source of copper.
Breccia
Rock composed of broken rock fragments, found in sedimentary or volcanic environments.
Calcite
Calcium carbonate mineral, the main constituent of limestone and marble.
Chalcopyrite
Copper-iron sulfide mineral, an important source of copper.
Diatreme
Volcanic pipe containing milled breccia that was formed by explosive gaseous venting and upward transport of material.
Dike
Tabular discordant intrusive rock.
Dip
Acute vertical angle that a rock surface makes with a horizontal plane. Direction of dip is
always perpendicular to strike.
Electrum
Alloy of silver and gold.
Epithermal
Refers to hydrothermal mineral deposit formed within a few thousand feet of surface at relatively low temperature and pressure, commonly a vein.
Fault
A break in the rocks along which movement has occurred.
Feldspar
Common alumino-silicate mineral containing sodium, potassium and/or calcium, formed in igneous environment and constituting over 60% of the Earth’s crust.
Feldspathic sand
Sand containing feldspar and quartz.
Flotation
Metallurgical process that begins concentration of economic minerals from gangue.
Fluorite
Calcium fluoride mineral, also called fluorspar.
Galena
Lead sulfide mineral, the main source of lead.
Gangue
Valueless material accompanying economic minerals in a mineral deposit.
Garnet
Silicate mineral formed at high temperature and found in metamorphic rock and in skarn near the contact zone of igneous intrusive rocks.
Gneiss
Metamorphic rock exhibiting compositional banding formed at depth in a high temperature and pressure environment.
Granite
Common coarse-grained igneous rock composed of light colored minerals including quartz and feldspar.
Heap leaching
A process used for the recovery of precious metals and copper from low-grade ores. Crushed material is laid on an impervious pad and uniformly leached by the percolation of the leach liquor trickling through the beds by gravity to ponds. The metals are recovered by conventional methods from the solution.
Hematite
Iron (ferrous) oxide mineral.
Hydrothermal
Relating to or produced by extremely hot water.
Igneous
Refers to a rock or mineral that solidified from magma, i.e., molten material.
Lava
Rock formed as a result of cooling and solidification of magma (molten rock) poured out on the earth’s surface.
Malachite
Green hydrous copper carbonate mineral formed in the oxide zone of copper deposit.
Manto
Tabular or pipe-like mineral deposit formed by selective replacement commonly of limestone beds by mineralizing solutions introduced along faults.
Metamorphic
Refers to rock changed in texture and composition by high temperature and/or pressure deep beneath the surface.
Mica
Group of phyllosilicate minerals, common variety muscovite, with perfect basal (micaceous) cleavage yielding tough, elastic flakes and sheets; colorless, white, yellow, green, brown, or black; common in igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks.
Micaceous Iron
Oxide (“MIO”)
Platy variety of specularite used in coatings to protect structural steelwork from corrosion.
Mineralized
Material added by hydrothermal solutions, principally in the form of mineral deposits. Often refers to the presence of a mineral of economic interest in the rock.
Molybdenite
Molydenum sulfide mineral, the main source of molybdenum
Monzonite
Coarse-grained igneous rock containing quartz and composed of approximately equal amounts of sodium and potassium feldspars.
Net Smelter Return
An interest in a mining property held by the vendor on the net revenues generated from the sale of metal produced from the mine.
Ore
Mineral of economic value that can be extracted profitably and legally.
Oxidation
The conversion of sulfide minerals to oxide minerals through weathering at or near the earth’s surface.
Paleozoic
The era of geologic time when fish, insects, amphibians, reptiles, and land plants first appeared, about 600 million to 230 million years ago.
Pegmatite
Very coarse-grained igneous rock containing quartz, feldspar and mica, usually found as irregular dikes, lenses or veins, esp. at the margins of granites.
Placer
Deposit of sand or gravel containing concentrations of valuable minerals, typically gold.
Plunge
The vertical angle between a horizontal plane and the line of maximum elongation of a linear geologic feature.
Porphyry
Igneous rock exhibiting a characteristic texture reflecting relatively large feldspar phenocrysts in a fine-grained groundmass.
Precambrian
All geologic time before the beginning of the Paleozoic. It encompasses about 90% of geologic time (4600-590 million years ago).
Pyrite
Iron sulfide mineral.
Quaternary
A period of geologic time from about 2 million years ago until the present.
Schist
Metamorphic rock exhibiting strong cleavage due to alignment of fibrous or platy minerals.
Sericitization
Replacement of rock by sericitic muscovite due to hydrothermal activity.
Silicification
Introduction of or replacement by silica.
Skarn
Characteristic high-temperature calc-silicate mineral assemblage formed in calcareous rocks near the contact zone of igneous intrusion.
Sphalerite
Zinc sulfide mineral, the main source of zinc.
Specularite
Crystalline form of hematite.
Stratigraphy
The study of rock strata, especially of their distribution, deposition, and age.
Strike
Direction of line formed by intersection of a rock surface with a horizontal plane. Strike is always perpendicular to direction of dip.
Sulfide
A mineral compound containing sulfur but no oxygen.
Tailings
Waste product from ground ore.
Tertiary
The first period of the Cenozoic era during which mammals became dominant and modern plants evolved, 65 million to 1.6 million years ago.
Vein
A mineral filling of a fault or other fracture in a host rock, in tabular or sheetlike form, commonly with associated replacement of the host rock; a mineral deposit of this form and origin.
Volcanism
Volcanic activity, including the eruption of lava and rock fragments and gas explosions.
Quartz
A silicate mineral composed of silicon and oxygen.
Quartzite
Metamorphic rock composed of quartz.
ITEM 3.