ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Royalties on Producing Properties
Recent activities at each of the significant producing properties in which we have a royalty interest are described in the following pages. Please also see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on the history of these properties.
We do not operate the properties in which we have royalty interests and therefore much of the information disclosed in this Form 10-K regarding these properties is provided to us by the operators. For example, the operators of the various properties provide us information regarding metals production, estimates of mineral reserves and additional mineralization. There is more information available to the public from the operators of the properties in which we have royalties, including reports filed by Newmont, Coeur d’Alene, and Barrick with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For risks associated with reserve estimates, please see “Risk Factors - Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant estimates which can change.”
Pipeline Mining Complex
The Pipeline Mining Complex is a large open pit, mill and heap leach operation located approximately 60 air miles southwest of Elko, Nevada, in Lander County. The site is reached by driving west from Elko on Interstate 80 approximately 46 miles, and proceeding south on State Highway 306 approximately 23 miles. The Pipeline Mining Complex includes both the Pipeline and the South Pipeline deposits and is operated by the Cortez Joint Venture.
The royalty interests we hold at the Pipeline Mining Complex include:
(a)
Reserve Claims (“GSR1”). This is a sliding-scale GSR royalty for all gold produced from the “Reserve Claims,” which includes 52 claims that encompass all of the proven and probable reserves in the Pipeline and South Pipeline deposits as of April 1, 1999. As defined in our royalty agreement with Cortez, our GSR royalty applies to revenues attributed to products mined and removed, with no deduction for any costs paid by or charged to Cortez, except for deductions of Mining Law reform costs. Mining Law reform costs includes all amounts paid by or charged to Cortez for any royalty, assessment, production tax or other levy imposed on and measured by production, to the extent that any such levy is hereafter imposed by the United States, in connection with reform of the General Mining Law or otherwise. The revenues attributed to Cortez are determined on a deemed market value basis of total production for each calendar quarter outturned to Cortez’s account at the refiner. The GSR royalty rate on the Reserve Claims is tied to the gold price, without indexing for inflation or deflation as shown in the table below.
(b)
GAS Claims (“GSR2”). This is a sliding-scale GSR royalty for all gold produced from the 288 claims outside of the Reserve Claims. The GAS Claims include 310 lode mining claims, but production from 22 of the GAS Claims that encompass the South Pipeline reserve as of April 1, 1999, are subject to the Reserve Claims GSR royalty. The GSR royalty rate on the GAS Claims is tied to the gold price, without indexing for inflation or deflation, and applies to revenues attributed to products mined and removed, with no deduction of costs, except for Mining Law reform costs.
(c)
Reserve and GAS Claims Fixed Royalty (“GSR3”). The GSR3 royalty is a fixed rate GSR royalty of 0.7125% for the life of the mine and covers the same cumulative area as is covered by our two sliding-scale GSR royalties, GSR1 and GSR2.
(d)
Net Value Royalty (“NVR1”). This is a fixed 0.39% NVR on production from the GAS Claims located on a portion of the Pipeline Mining Complex that excludes the Pipeline open pit. This NVR1 royalty is calculated by deducting contract defined processing-related and associated capital costs, but not mining costs from the revenue received by the operator from the claims covered by the royalty.
(e)
The Silver GSR. This is a 7% GSR royalty on all silver produced from any of the Reserve Claims or the GAS claims.
(f)
The Other Products NSR. This is a 3% NSR royalty on all products, other than gold or silver, produced from any of the Reserve Claims or GAS claims, commencing July 1, 1999. This NSR is defined as the actual price received by Cortez for the sale of products other than gold and silver prior to delivery to any customer, refinery or upgrading facility and after deductions for any Mining Law reform costs, the costs of insuring, marketing, freight or transportation and, if applicable, refining and treatment costs, for such products. There is no current production attributed to this royalty interest.
The following shows the current sliding-scale GSR royalty rates under our royalty agreement with Cortez:
Under certain circumstances we would be entitled to delayed production payments (i.e., payments not recoupable by Cortez) of $400,000 per year.
The following illustration depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Pipeline Mining Complex:
SJ Claims
We own a 0.9% NSR royalty on the SJ Claims that covers a portion of the Betze-Post mine, in Eureka County, Nevada. Betze-Post is an open pit mine operated by Barrick, at its Goldstrike property. The SJ Claims and the Betze-Post open pit lie approximately 24 air miles northwest of Carlin, Nevada. The property is accessed by driving north from Carlin on State Highway 766 for 19 miles and then on an improved gravel road for two miles.
Barrick estimated that at a $400 gold price, proven and probable reserves related to our royalty interest at the SJ Claims includes 64.9 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.137 ounces per ton, containing approximately 8.9 million ounces of gold as of December 31, 2005. Barrick does not provide us with additional mineralized material on the SJ Claims that is related to our royalty interest.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at the SJ Claims:
Leeville Project
We own a 1.8% carried working interest, equal to a 1.8% NSR royalty, which covers the majority of the Leeville Project, in Eureka County, Nevada. The Leeville Project is approximately 19 air miles northwest of Carlin, Nevada. The property is accessed by driving north from Carlin on State Highway 766 for 19 miles and then on an improved gravel road for two miles. Leeville North is an underground mine currently under production ramp up by Newmont. Newmont has announced that it intends to be at full production at Leeville North by the end of calendar 2007. Currently, we derive royalty revenue from underground operations on a portion of the Leeville South and North mines, which are operated by Newmont. Production from the Leeville South mine is expected to continue into calendar 2007.
As of December 31, 2005, Newmont estimated that at a $400 gold price, proven and probable reserves related to the Leeville South mine includes 0.086 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.371 ounces per ton, containing 32,000 ounces of gold. In addition, Newmont has reported additional mineralized material at Leeville South totaling 21,000 tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.300 ounces per ton.
At the Leeville North mine, proven and probable reserves include 5.1 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.465 ounces per ton, containing 2.381 million ounces of gold. In addition, Newmont has reported additional mineralized material totaling 1.4 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.435 ounces per ton, at Leeville North.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at the Leeville Project:
Troy Mine
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, we purchased two royalty interests in the Troy underground silver and copper mine, operated by Revett, located in Lincoln County, Montana. The Troy mine is approximately 15 miles south of the town of Troy, Montana, and access is via a paved road connected to State Highway 56.
The first royalty interest we acquired in the Troy mine is a production payment equivalent to a 7.0% GSR royalty from all metals and products produced and sold from the Troy mine. The 7.0% GSR royalty will extend until either cumulative production of approximately 9.9 million ounces of silver and 84.6 million pounds of copper, or we receive $10.5 million in cumulative payments, whichever occurs first. The second royalty interest we acquired in the Troy Mine is a perpetual royalty, which begins at 6.1% on any production in excess of 11.0 million ounces of silver and 94.1 million pounds of copper, and steps down to a perpetual 2% after cumulative production has exceeded 12.7 million ounces of silver and 108.2 million pounds of copper.
As of December 31, 2005, Revett estimated that at a $7.00 per ounce silver price, proven and probable reserves related to the Troy mine include 10.4 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 1.41 ounces per ton, containing 16.95 million ounces of silver. In addition, Revett has reported additional mineralized material at the Troy mine totaling 46.3 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 1.54 ounces per ton of silver.
As of December 31, 2005, Revett estimated that at a $1.60 per pound copper price, proven and probable reserves related to the Troy mine includes 10.4 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.60 percent, containing 145.1 million pounds of copper. In addition, Revett has reported additional mineralized material at the Troy mine totaling 46.3 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.74 percent of copper.
Revett recently announced the planned production for the Troy mine is expected to produce approximately 1.8 million ounces of silver and 15.6 million pounds of copper in calendar 2006. This is a reduction in estimated production numbers reported to us as of December 31, 2005, of 2.9 million ounces of silver and 24.2 million pounds of copper for calendar year 2006.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Troy mine:
Bald Mountain Mine
We own a 1.75% to 3.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on a portion of the Bald Mountain mine. The Bald Mountain mine is an open pit, heap leach mine operated by Barrick. The Bald Mountain mine is located in White Pine County, approximately 65 miles south of Elko, Nevada. The Bald Mountain mine is approximately midway between Elko and Ely, Nevada. From Elko, the mine is reached by driving on paved State Highway 46 south for approximately 45 miles, then for 30 miles on an improved gravel road to the mine site. From Ely, the drive is 30 miles west on paved United States Highway 50, then 55 miles north on the improved gravel Ruby Marshes Road.
As of December 31, 2005, Barrick informed us that the portion of the mine covered by our royalty interest contained proven and probable reserves of 45.4 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.039 ounces per ton, containing approximately 1.78 million ounces of gold. These reserves are based on a gold price of $400 per ounce. In addition, Barrick has reported that the property covered by our royalty interest contains an additional 20.6 million tons of mineralized material, at an average grade of 0.027 ounces per ton of gold.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Bald Mountain mine:
Robinson Mine
We own a 3% NSR royalty on all mineral production from the Robinson Mine operated by Quadra Mining Ltd. The Robinson Mine produces two flotation concentrates for sale to third party smelters. One concentrate contains copper, gold and silver. The second is a molybdenum concentrate. Access to the property is via a paved highway 6 1/2 miles west of Ely, Nevada in White Pine County.
For the year ending December 31, 2005, Quadra informed us that the copper and gold reserves were 160.4 million tons, at an average grade of 0.007 ounces per ton of gold containing 1.16 million ounces of gold and a copper grade of 0.69% equating to 2,213 million pounds of copper. The reserves were calculated at $425 per ounce for gold and $1.15 per pound of copper. Silver and molybdenum reserves were not reported but are produced and sold as a byproduct.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Robinson mine:
Mulatos Mine
We own a 0.3 to 1.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Mulatos Mine in southeastern Sonora, Mexico approximately 137 miles east of the city of Hermosillo and 186 miles south of the border with the United States. Commercial production at the Mulatos mine began on April 1, 2006. Operation of the gold heap leach mine is by Alamos. As of December 31, 2005, based upon a gold price of $350 per ounce, Alamos has reported proven and probable reserves of 40.6 million tons, at an average grade of 0.047 ounces per ton, containing 1.892 million ounces of gold. Additional mineralized material, based upon a $350 gold price, is reported as 153.2 million tons of ore at 0.026 ounces per ton.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Mulatos mine:
Martha Mine
We own a 2% NSR royalty on mineral production from certain properties in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, including the underground Martha silver mine operated by Coeur d’Alene. The Martha mine is located in remote southern Argentina. The property is accessed by driving west-northwest from the coastal town of Puerto San Julian, which is approximately 1,300 miles south of Buenos Aires. From Puerto San Julian the mine is reached by driving 95 miles on public highways (the last 25 of which are unpaved roads) and then five miles on a local road, which is also unpaved.
As of December 31, 2005, Coeur d’Alene informed us that, at a $6.50 per ounce silver price, estimated proven and probable reserves associated with our Martha mine royalty includes approximately 67,000 tons of ore, at an average grade of 60.3 ounces per ton, containing approximately 4.05 million ounces of silver. In addition, Coeur d’Alene has reported an additional 134,000 tons of mineralized material, at an average grade of 45.4 ounces per ton of silver.
Table 1 below summarizes proven and probable reserves for gold, silver and copper that have been reported to us by the operators of our royalty interests as of December 31, 2005:
TABLE 1
Summary of Proven and Probable Gold Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2005
Summary of Proven and Probable Silver Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2005
See footnotes to Table 1 on page 28.
TABLE 1 (Continued)
Summary of Proven and Probable Copper Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2005
See footnotes to Table 1 on page 28.
Footnotes to Table 1
(1)
“Reserve” is that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
“Proven (Measured) Reserves” are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and the grade is computed from the results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of the reserves are well established.
“Probable (Indicated) Reserves” are reserves for which the quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance of probable (indicated) reserves, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume geological continuity between points of observation.
Amounts shown represent 100% of the reserves subject to our royalty interest and do not take into account losses in processing the ore.
(2)
Gold reserves were calculated by the various operators at $400 per ounce except for the Robinson mine where Quadra calculated reserves at $425 per ounce, and the Mulatos mine where Alamos calculated reserves at $350 per ounce.
(3)
Contained ounces or contained pounds shown have an allowance for dilution of ore in the mining process and do not take into account losses in processing the ore.
(4)
GSR1 is a sliding-scale royalty that covers the Reserve Claims.
(5)
GSR2 is a sliding-scale royalty that covers an area outside of the Reserve Claims.
(6)
GSR3 is a 0.71% fixed rate royalty that covers the same area as GSR1 and GSR2.
(7)
NVR1 is a 0.39% net value royalty that covers production from the majority of the GAS Claims, which covers a portion of the Pipeline Mining Complex that excludes the Pipeline pit. NVR1 is calculated by deducting contract defined processing-related and associated capital costs but not mining costs from revenue received by the operator.
(8)
We own a 0.9% NSR royalty on the SJ Claims. SJ Claims did not provide a breakdown of proven and probable reserves.
(9)
We own a 1.8% carried working interest, equal to a 1.8% NSR royalty, on the Leeville Project.
(10)
We own a 1.75 to 3.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on a portion of the Bald Mountain mine. Bald Mountain mine did not provide a breakdown of proven and probable reserves.
(11)
We own a 3.0% NSR royalty on the Robinson mine.
(12)
We own a 0.03 to 1.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Mulatos mine.
(13)
Silver reserves were calculated by the operators at $7.00 per ounce for Troy and $6.50 per ounce for Martha mine.
(14)
We own a 7.0% GSR, a 6.1% GSR royalty and a 2% perpetual royalty in the Troy mine, subject to certain production thresholds. The Troy mine did not provide a breakdown of proven and probable reserves.
(15)
We own a 2% NSR royalty on the Martha mine.
(16)
Copper reserves were calculated by the operators at $1.60 per pound for Troy and $1.15 per pound for Robinson.
Table 2 below summarizes mineralization for gold, silver and copper which have been reported to us by the operators of our royalty interests as of December 31, 2005:
TABLE 2
Gold Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties1
As of December 31, 2005
Silver Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties1
As of December 31, 2005
Copper Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties1
As of December 31, 2005
See footnotes to this table on page 30.
Footnotes to Table 2
(1)
Mineralization has not been included in the proven and probable ore reserve estimates because even though drilling indicates a sufficient quantity and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these deposits do not qualify as commercially mineable ore bodies until further drilling and metallurgical work are completed, and until other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
(2)
GSR1 is a sliding-scale royalty that covers the Reserve Claims.
(3)
GSR2 is a sliding-scale royalty that covers an area outside of the Reserve Claims.
(4)
GSR3 is a 0.71% fixed rate royalty that covers the same area as GSR1 and GSR2.
(5)
NVR1 is a 0.39% net value royalty that covers production from the GAS Claims, which covers a portion of the Pipeline Mining Complex that excludes the Pipeline pit. NVR1 is calculated by deducting contract defined processing-related and associated capital costs but not mining costs from revenue received by the operator.
(6)
We own a carried working interest, equal to a 1.8% NSR royalty, on a majority of the Leeville Project.
(7)
We own a 1.75 to 3.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on a portion of the Bald Mountain mine.
(8)
We own a 0.03 to 1.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Mulatos mine.
(9)
We own a 7.0% GSR royalty, a 6.1% GSR royalty and a 2% perpetual royalty in the Troy mine, subject to certain production thresholds.
(10)
We own a 2% NSR royalty on the Martha mine.
Historical Production
The following table discloses historical production for the properties that are subject to our royalty interests as reported by the operators of the mines, for the past three fiscal years:
Historical Production in Ounces (Pounds for Copper) by Property
For the Fiscal Years Ended June 30,
Royalties on Development Stage Properties
The following is a description of our interests in royalties on development stage properties. There are proven and probable reserves associated with these properties at this time.
Taparko Mine
We own a production payment equivalent to a 15.0% GSR (TB-GSR1) royalty on all gold produced from the Taparko Project, located in Burkina Faso and operated by Somita. TB-GSR1 remains in-force until cumulative production of 804,420 ounces of gold is achieved or until cumulative payments of $35 million have been made to Royal Gold, whichever is earlier. We also own a production payment equivalent to a GSR sliding-scale royalty (TB-GSR2) on all gold produced from the Taparko Project. TB-GSR2 is effective concurrently with TB-GSR1, and remains in-force until the termination of TB-GSR1.
We also own a perpetual 2% GSR royalty (TB-GSR3) royalty on all gold produced from the Taparko Project area. TB-GSR3 will commence upon termination of TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 royalties. A portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty is associated with existing proven and probable reserves and has been classified as a development stage royalty interest. The remaining portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty, which is not currently associated with proven and probable reserves, is classified as an exploration stage royalty interest.
Royalties on Exploration Stage Properties
The following are descriptions of our interests in royalties on exploration stage properties. There are no proven and probable reserves associated with these properties at this time.
Mule Canyon
We own a 5.0% NSR royalty on a portion of the Mule Canyon property located in Lander County, Nevada, approximately 12 miles southeast of Battle Mountain, Nevada. This property is controlled by Newmont.
Buckhorn South Project
We own a 16.5% NPI royalty on the Buckhorn South Project. The Buckhorn South project is approximately 5,000 acres and is located in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 50 miles southwest of Elko, Nevada and approximately two miles south of Buckhorn mine. The property consists of 265 unpatented mining claims. Of the 265 claims that comprise Buckhorn South, we leased 131 claims and staked the balance of the project area. The leased claims are burdened by cumulative third party royalties equal to a 4% NSR royalty; the remaining claims are subject to another third party 1% NSR royalty.
Long Valley
We own a 1.0% NSR royalty on the Long Valley gold project 10 miles east of Mammoth Lakes, California. The project is a claim group consisting of 95 claims. The project is controlled and under evaluation by Vista Gold Corporation.
RG Russia
On June 20, 2003, through a newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary, RG Russia, Inc., we entered into an agreement for exploration in Russia with a subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Exploration Corporation, who holds an exploration license granted by the Russian government. As part of the exploration agreement, we provided exploration funding totaling $1.3 million to vest in a 1% NSR royalty interest. On
May 3, 2005, the subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Exploration Corporation entered into an agreement with Fortress Minerals Corporation (“Fortress”), whereby Fortress acquired a 51% indirect interest in the Svetloye project, with an option to earn an additional 29% indirect interest by completion of certain work requirements. Our 1% NSR royalty remains in effect as to 100% of the project. Fortress is actively exploring the property.
Taparko Mine
We own a perpetual 2% GSR royalty (TB-GSR3) royalty on all gold produced from the Taparko Project area. TB-GSR3 will commence upon termination of TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 (development stage) royalties. A portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty is associated with existing proven and probable reserves and has been classified as a development stage royalty interest. The remaining portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty, which is not currently associated with proven and probable reserves, is classified as an exploration stage royalty interest.
In addition, we own a 0.75% milling fee royalty (TB-MR1) on all gold processed through the Taparko Project processing facilities that is mined from any area outside of the Taparko Project area, subject to a cap of 1.1 million tons per year.
Taranis Resources Inc.
On November 4, 2005, we entered into two Exploration and Earn-In Agreements (the “Agreements”) with Taranis with respect to its exploration program in Finland. As part of the first Agreement, we will obtain a 2% NSR royalty and future earn-in rights on any new property acquired by Taranis in Finland as a result of its regional exploration program.
As part of the Agreements, we agreed to provide funding totaling $500,000 to Taranis for exploration work on the Kettukuusikko property in Lapland, Finland, in exchange for a 2% NSR royalty on the property. As of June 30, 2006, we have funded the entire $500,000 commitment. We also have an option to fund up to an additional $600,000. If we fund the entire additional amount, we will earn a 51% joint venture interest in the Kettukuusikko project, and we will release our 2% NSR royalty. We have elected to exercise this option. In the event that we do not fully fund the $600,000 to earn the joint venture interest, we would retain our 2% NSR royalty.
Argentine Royalties
Hidefield controls properties located in the eastern part of the Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, which are not in production. We own a 2% NSR royalty on these properties, which have been actively explored during our fiscal year 2006.
Simon Creek
We own a 1.0% NSR royalty on the Simon Creek property. The Simon Creek property is located in Eureka County, Nevada, and is operated by Barrick.
Horse Mountain
We own a 0.25% in the Horse Mountain property. The Horse Mountain property is located in Lander County, Nevada, and is operated by Barrick.
Ferris/Cooks Creek
We own a 1.50% net value royalty interest on net revenues derived from the Ferris/Cooks Creek property, which is located in Lander County, Nevada, and is operated by Barrick.
Rye
We own a 0.5% NSR royalty on the Rye property. The Rye property is located in Pershing County, Nevada, and is operated by Barrick.
BSC
We own a 2.5% NSR royalty on the BSC property. The BSC property is located in Elko County, Nevada, and is operated by Nevada Pacific Gold.
Copper Basin
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on a 60% non-vested interest in the Copper Basin project, located in Lander County, Nevada.
ICBM
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on a vested 67% interest (approximate) on the ICBM project, located in Lander County and Humboldt County, Nevada. The ICBM project is currently under exploration lease to Staccato Gold (“Staccato”).
Long Peak
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on the Long Peak project, located in Lander County, Nevada. The Long Peak project is currently under exploration lease to Staccato.
Dixie Flats
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on the Dixie Flats project, located in Elko County, Nevada. We continue to hold 1,280 acres of patented land through an exploration agreement at the Dixie Flats project. The Dixie Flats project is currently under exploration lease to Staccato.
Exploration Properties
Sparrow Hawk Claims
We continue to hold 31 unpatented mining claims from Quicksilver Phenomenon, LLC on lands located southeast of the Cortez Joint Venture area, Eureka County, Nevada. There are no reserves or resources identified on this project as of June 30, 2006.
Hoosac Project
We continue to hold a direct ownership in 16 unpatented claims and an indirect interest in 192 unpatented claims through leases in the Hoosac Project. The Hoosac Project is located in Eureka County, Nevada. The Hoosac Project is not currently under exploration lease.
Bulgarian Exploration
We own a 50% interest in Greek American Exploration Ltd., a Bulgarian private limited company that has an agreement with the Bulgarian Committee of Geology and Mineral Resources to conduct geological research and exploration on a license in Bulgaria.
Greek American Exploration joined with Phelps Dodge Exploration Corporation to form a Bulgarian company named Sofia Minerals Ltd. Sofia Minerals is held equally by Greek American Exploration and Phelps Dodge Exploration. There was no exploration activity during fiscal year 2006 and Sofia Minerals does not currently hold any concession agreements with the Bulgarian Committee of Geology and Mineral Resources. There were no expenses incurred in fiscal year 2006. We are currently in discussions with the other owners of the companies to determine appropriate actions to dissolve the Bulgarian companies.
ITEM 3.