ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Royalties on Producing Properties
Recent activities at each of the significant producing properties in which we have a royalty interest are described in the following pages. Please also see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on these properties.
We do not operate the properties in which we have royalty interests and therefore much of the information disclosed in this Form 10-K regarding these properties is provided to us by the operators. For example, the operators of the various properties provide us information regarding metals production, estimates of mineral reserves and additional mineralization. There is more information available to the public from the operators of the properties in which we have royalties, including reports filed by Newmont, Coeur d’Alene, and Barrick with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For risks to our business associated with operations of mining properties by third parties see generally the risks described under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” For risks associated with the operators’ reserve estimates, please see Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors - Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further detail.
Pipeline Mining Complex
The Pipeline Mining Complex is a large open pit, mill and heap leach operation located approximately 60 air miles southwest of Elko, Nevada, in Lander County. The site is reached by driving west from Elko on Interstate 80 approximately 46 miles, and proceeding south on State Highway 306 approximately 23 miles. The Pipeline Mining Complex includes the Pipeline, South Pipeline, Gap and Crossroads deposits and is operated by the Cortez Joint Venture.
The royalty interests we hold at the Pipeline Mining Complex include:
(a)
Reserve Claims (“GSR1”). This is a sliding-scale GSR royalty for all gold produced from the “Reserve Claims,” which includes 52 claims that encompass all of the proven and probable reserves in the Pipeline and South Pipeline deposits as of April 1, 1999. As defined in our royalty agreement with Cortez, our GSR royalty applies to revenues attributed to products mined and removed, with no deduction for any costs paid by or charged to Cortez, except for deductions of Mining Law reform costs. Mining Law reform costs includes all amounts paid by or charged to Cortez for any royalty, assessment, production tax or other levy imposed on and measured by production, to the extent that any such levy is hereafter imposed by the United States, in connection with reform of the General Mining Law or otherwise. As defined, no such Mining Law reform costs are currently deducted since no such reform has yet occurred. The revenues attributed to Cortez are determined on a deemed market value basis of total production for each calendar quarter outturned to Cortez’s account at the refiner. The GSR royalty rate on the Reserve Claims is tied to the gold price, without indexing for inflation or deflation as shown in the table below.
(b)
GAS Claims (“GSR2”). This is a sliding-scale GSR royalty for all gold produced from the 288 claims outside of the Reserve Claims. The GAS Claims include 310 lode mining claims, but production from 22 of the GAS Claims that encompass the South Pipeline reserve as of April 1, 1999, are subject to the Reserve Claims GSR royalty. The GSR royalty rate on the GAS Claims is tied to the gold price, without indexing for inflation or deflation, and applies to revenues attributed to products mined and removed, with no deduction of costs, except for Mining Law reform costs, if any.
(c)
Reserve and GAS Claims Fixed Royalty (“GSR3”). The GSR3 royalty is a fixed rate GSR royalty of 0.7125% for the life of the mine and covers the same cumulative area as is covered by our two sliding-scale GSR royalties, GSR1 and GSR2.
(d)
Net Value Royalty (“NVR1”). This is a fixed 1.25% NVR on production from the GAS Claims located on a portion of the Pipeline Mining Complex that excludes the Pipeline open pit. The Company owns 31.6% of the 1.25% NVR (or 0.39%) while our consolidated minority interest owns the remaining portion of the 1.25% NVR. This NVR1 royalty is calculated by deducting contract defined processing-related and associated capital costs, but not mining costs from the revenue received by the operator from the claims covered by the royalty.
(e)
The Silver GSR. This is a 7.0% GSR royalty on all silver produced from any of the Reserve Claims or the GAS claims.
(f)
The Other Products NSR. This is a 3.0% NSR royalty on all products, other than gold or silver, produced from any of the Reserve Claims or GAS claims, commencing July 1, 1999. This NSR is defined as the actual price received by Cortez for the sale of products other than gold and silver
prior to delivery to any customer, refinery or upgrading facility and after deductions for any Mining Law reform costs, the costs of insuring, marketing, freight or transportation and, if applicable, refining and treatment costs, for such products. There is no current production attributed to this royalty interest.
The following shows the current sliding-scale GSR royalty rates under our royalty agreement with Cortez:
Under certain circumstances we would be entitled to delayed production payments (i.e., payments not recoupable by Cortez) of $400,000 per year.
Barrick estimated that at a $475 gold price, proven and probable reserves related to our royalty interests at the Pipeline Mining Complex includes 82.65 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.028 ounces per ton, containing approximately 2.326 million ounces of gold as of December 31, 2006. In addition, Barrick has reported additional mineralized material at the Pipeline Mining Complex totaling 35.35 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.037 ounces of gold per ton.
The following illustration depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Pipeline Mining Complex:
SJ Claims
We own a 0.9% NSR royalty on the SJ Claims that covers a portion of the Betze-Post mine, in Eureka County, Nevada. Betze-Post is an open pit mine operated by a subsidiary of Barrick, at its Goldstrike property. The SJ Claims and the Betze-Post open pit lie approximately 24 air miles northwest of Carlin, Nevada. The property is accessed by driving north from Carlin on State Highway 766 for 19 miles and then on an improved gravel road for two miles.
Barrick estimated that at a $475 gold price, proven and probable reserves related to our royalty interest at the SJ Claims include 60.55 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.132 ounces per ton, containing approximately 7.977 million ounces of gold as of December 31, 2006. Barrick does not provide us with information regarding additional mineralized material on the SJ Claims that is related to our royalty interest.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at the SJ Claims:
Leeville Project
We own a 1.8% carried working interest, equal to a 1.8% NSR royalty, which covers the majority of the Leeville Mining Complex (collectively Leeville South and Leeville North), in Eureka County, Nevada. The Leeville Mining Complex is approximately 19 air miles northwest of Carlin, Nevada. The property is accessed by driving north from Carlin on State Highway 766 for 19 miles and then on an improved gravel road for two miles. Leeville North is an underground mine currently under production ramp up by Newmont. Newmont has announced that it intends to be at full production at Leeville North by the end of calendar 2007. Currently, we derive royalty revenue from underground operations on a portion of the Leeville South and North mines, which are operated by a subsidiary of Newmont. Production from the Leeville South mine is expected to continue throughout calendar 2007.
As of December 31, 2006, Newmont estimated that at a $500 gold price, proven and probable reserves related to the Leeville South mine includes 29,000 tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.310 ounces per ton, containing 9,000 ounces of gold. In addition, Newmont has reported additional mineralized material at Leeville South totaling 21,000 tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.300 ounces of gold per ton.
At the Leeville North mine, proven and probable reserves include 5.15 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.454 ounces per ton, containing 2.339 million ounces of gold as of December 31, 2006. In addition, Newmont has reported additional mineralized material totaling 1.44 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.373 ounces of gold per ton, at Leeville North.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at the Leeville Project:
Troy Mine
In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 and in connection with financing provided by the Company to Revett, we acquired two royalty interests in the Troy underground silver and copper mine, operated by a subsidiary of Revett, located in Lincoln County, Montana. The Troy mine is approximately 15 miles south of the town of Troy, Montana, and access is via a paved road connected to State Highway 56. Please see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information in connection with the financing provided by the Company.
The first royalty interest we acquired in the Troy mine is a production payment equivalent to a 7.0% GSR royalty from all metals and products produced and sold from the Troy mine. The 7.0% GSR royalty will extend until either cumulative production of approximately 9.9 million ounces of silver and 84.7 million pounds of copper, or we receive $10.5 million in cumulative payments, whichever occurs first. We have received cumulative payments with the GSR royalty totaling $5.5 million through June 30, 2007. The second royalty interest we acquired in the Troy Mine is a perpetual GSR royalty, which begins at 6.1% on any production in excess of 11.0 million ounces of silver and 94.1 million pounds of copper, and steps down to a perpetual 2.0% GSR royalty after cumulative production has exceeded 12.7 million ounces of silver and 108.2 million pounds of copper.
As of December 31, 2006, Revett estimated that at an $11.00 per ounce silver price, proven and probable reserves related to the Troy mine include 12.05 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 1.14 ounces per ton, containing 13.768 million ounces of silver. In addition, Revett has reported additional mineralized material at the Troy mine totaling 45.22 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 1.36 ounces per ton of silver.
As of December 31, 2006, Revett estimated that at a $2.00 per pound copper price, proven and probable reserves related to the Troy mine includes 12.19 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.54 percent, containing 131 million pounds of copper. In addition, Revett has reported additional mineralized copper material at the Troy mine totaling 45.22 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.64 percent of copper.
All of the ground within the “area of interest”, as labeled in the following map, depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Troy mine:
Bald Mountain Mine
We own a 1.75% to 3.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on a portion of the Bald Mountain mine. The Bald Mountain mine is an open pit, heap leach mine operated by a subsidiary of Barrick. The Bald Mountain mine is located in White Pine County, approximately 65 miles south of Elko, Nevada. The Bald Mountain mine is approximately midway between Elko and Ely, Nevada. From Elko, the mine is reached by driving on paved State Highway 46 south for approximately 45 miles, then for 30 miles on an improved gravel road to the mine site. From Ely, the drive is 30 miles west on paved United States Highway 50, then 55 miles north on the improved gravel Ruby Marshes Road.
As of December 31, 2006, Barrick informed us that the portion of the mine covered by our royalty interest contained proven and probable reserves of 51.49 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.039 ounces per ton, containing approximately 2.024 million ounces of gold. These reserves are based on a gold price of $475 per ounce. In addition, Barrick has reported that the property covered by our royalty interest contains an additional 7.64 million tons of additional mineralized material, at an average grade of 0.036 ounces per ton of gold.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Bald Mountain mine:
Robinson Mine
We own a 3.0% NSR royalty on all mineral production from the Robinson open pit mine operated by a subsidiary of Quadra Mining Ltd. The Robinson mine produces two flotation concentrates for sale to third party smelters. One concentrate contains copper, gold and silver. The second is a molybdenum concentrate. Access to the property is via Nevada state highway 50, 6 1/2 miles west of Ely, Nevada, in White Pine County.
As of December 31, 2006, Quadra informed us that the copper and gold reserves were 134.92 million tons, at an average grade of 0.008 ounces per ton of gold, containing 1.034 million ounces of gold and a copper grade of 0.69% equating to 1,863 million pounds of copper. The reserves were calculated at $500 per ounce for gold and $1.15 per pound of copper. Silver and molybdenum reserves were not reported but are produced and sold as a byproduct.
All of the ground within the “property boundary”, as labeled in the following map, is subject to our royalty interest at the Robinson mine:
Mulatos Mine
We own a 0.3% to 1.5% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Mulatos open pit mine in southeastern Sonora, Mexico approximately 137 miles east of the city of Hermosillo and 186 miles south of the border with the United States. Access to the mine from the city of Hermosillo can be made via private chartered flight or paved and gravel road. Commercial production at the Mulatos mine began on April 1, 2006. Operation of the gold heap leach mine is by a subsidiary of Alamos. As of December 31, 2006, based upon a gold price of $500 per ounce, Alamos has reported proven and probable reserves of 43.79 million tons, at an average grade of 0.047 ounces per ton, containing 2.057 million ounces of gold. Additional mineralized material, based upon a 0.015 ounces per ton cut-off, is reported as 95.21 million tons of ore at 0.036 ounces per ton.
All of the ground within the shaded area on the following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Mulatos mine:
Martha Mine
We own a 2.0% NSR royalty on mineral production from certain properties in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, including the underground Martha silver mine operated by Coeur d’Alene. The Martha mine is located in remote southern Argentina. The property is accessed by driving west-northwest from the coastal town of Puerto San Julian, which is approximately 1,300 miles south of Buenos Aires. From Puerto San Julian the mine is reached by driving 95 miles on public highways (the last 25 of which are unpaved roads) and then five miles on a local road, which is also unpaved.
As of June 30, 2007, Coeur d’Alene informed us that, at an $10.00 per ounce silver price, estimated proven and probable reserves associated with our Martha mine royalty includes approximately 113,700 tons of ore, at an average grade of 66.63 ounces per ton, containing approximately 7.576 million ounces of silver. Coeur d’Alene did not provide us with updated information regarding additional mineralized material for Martha mine that is related to our royalty interest.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Martha mine:
Royalties on Development Stage Properties
The following is a description of our interests in royalties on development stage properties. There are proven and probable reserves associated with these properties at this time. Reserves are summarized below in this report in Item 2, Properties - Reserve Information.
Taparko Mine
In connection with financing provided by the Company to Societe des Mines de Taparko, also known as Somita SA (“Somita”), we acquired two initial production payments equivalent to GSR royalties and two subsequent GSR royalties on the Taparko project. Please see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the financing transaction. Please also refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion on the Company’s funding commitment related to this financing transaction.
We own a production payment equivalent to a 15.0% GSR (TB-GSR1) royalty on all gold produced from the Taparko project, located in Burkina Faso and operated by Somita. TB-GSR1 remains in-force until cumulative production of 804,420 ounces of gold is achieved or until cumulative payments of $35 million have been made to Royal Gold, whichever is earlier. We also own a production payment equivalent to a GSR sliding-scale royalty (TB-GSR2) on all gold produced from the Taparko project. TB-GSR2 runs concurrently with TB-GSR1, and remains in-force until the termination of TB-GSR1.
We also own a perpetual 2.0% GSR royalty (TB-GSR3) on all gold produced from the Taparko project area. TB-GSR3 will commence upon termination of the TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 royalties. A portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty is associated with existing proven and probable reserves and has been classified as a development stage royalty interest. The remaining portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty, which is not currently associated with proven and probable reserves, is classified as an exploration stage royalty interest.
In addition, we own a 0.75% milling fee royalty (TB-MR1) on all gold processed through the Taparko project processing facilities that is mined from any area outside of the Taparko project area, subject to a maximum of 1.1 million tons per year. There currently are no proven and probable reserves associated with TB-MR1.
Peñasquito Project
We own a production payment equivalent to a 2.0% NSR royalty on all metal production from the Peñasquito project, located in the State of Zacatecas, Mexico, and operated by Goldcorp.
The deposit consists of oxide and sulfide portions containing gold, silver, zinc and lead. Current site activities include infrastructure and processing facility construction.
Pascua-Lama Project
We own a production payment equivalent to a sliding-scale NSR based upon gold price as shown in the following table.
The Pascua-Lama project is located on the border of Argentina and Chile within 6.25 miles of Barrick’s Valedaro project. Our royalty interest is applicable to all the gold production from Chile. Barrick is also the owner/operator of the Pascua-Lama project.
An additional royalty equivalent to 0.216% of proceeds from copper produced in Chile, net of allowable deductions, sold on or after January 1, 2017, is owned by the Company.
Gold Hill
We own a sliding-scale production payment equivalent to a 2.0% NSR at a gold price above $350. The royalty contains a buyout provision of $10.0 million as well as an advanced minimum payment provision; all payments are a reduction to the buyout price.
The property is located adjacent to the Round Mountain gold mine, (a 50/50 joint venture between Kinross and Barrick), 60 miles north of Tonopah in Nye County, Nevada. The Gold Hill property is 4 miles north of the Round Mountain gold mine, and encompasses 108 mining claims.
Reserve Information
Table 1 below summarizes proven and probable reserves for gold, silver, copper, zinc and lead that have been reported to us by the operators of our royalty interests as of December 31, 2006. Please refer to pages 30-31 for the footnotes to Table 1.
TABLE 1
Summary of Proven and Probable Gold Reserves Subject to Our Royalties (1,2)
As of December 31, 2006
TABLE 1 (Continued)
Summary of Proven and Probable Silver Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1,13)
As of December 31, 2006
Summary of Proven and Probable Copper Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1,15)
As of December 31, 2006
Summary of Proven and Probable Zinc Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1,16)
As of December 31, 2006
TABLE 1 (Continued)
Summary of Proven and Probable Lead Reserves Subject to Our Royalties(1,17)
As of December 31, 2006
Footnotes to Table 1
(1)
Set forth below are the definitions of proven and probable reserves used by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Some of our royalty operators are Canadian issuers. Their definitions of “mineral reserve,” “proven mineral reserve” and “probable mineral reserve” conform to the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum definitions of these terms as of the effective date of estimation as required by National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators. The Canadian definitions of “reserve,” “proven (measured) reserves,” and “probable (indicated) reserves” are different than those used by the SEC, which are defined below.
“Reserve” is that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
“Proven (Measured) Reserves” are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and the grade is computed from the results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of the reserves are well established.
“Probable (Indicated) Reserves” are reserves for which the quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance of probable (indicated) reserves, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume geological continuity between points of observation.
(2)
Gold reserves were calculated by the various operators at the following per ounce price: $400 - Taparko; $475 - Cortez Pipeline and South Pipeline, SJ Claims, Bald Mountain, and Pascua-Lama; $500 - Leeville, Robinson and Mulatos; $525 - Peñasquito; and $535 - Cortez Gap.
(3)
“Contained ounces” or “contained pounds” do not take into account losses in processing the ore. The amounts shown are 100% of the reserves subject to our royalty interests.
(4)
GSR1, GSR2 and NVR1 reserves are a subset of the reserves covered by GSR3.
(5)
The operator at SJ and Bald Mountain did not provide a breakdown of proven and probable reserves.
(6)
Only probable reserves are reported by the operator for Leeville North.
(7)
Only proven reserves are reported by the operator for Leeville South.
(8)
Development stage property.
Table 2 below summarizes additional mineralization for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc which have been reported to us by the operators of our royalty interests as of December 31, 2006. Please refer to page 34 for the footnotes to Table 2.
TABLE 2
Gold Additional Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2006
TABLE 2 (Continued)
Silver Additional Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2006
Copper Additional Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2006
Lead Additional Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2006
TABLE 2 (Continued)
Zinc Additional Mineralization Subject to Our Royalties(1)
As of December 31, 2006
Footnotes to Table 2
(1)
Additional mineralized material is that part of a mineral system that has potential economic significance but cannot be included in the proven and probable ore reserve estimates until further drilling and metallurgical work is completed, and until other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work have been resolved. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize this term. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in this category will ever be converted into reserves.
(2)
Some of our royalty operators are Canadian issuers and report “additional mineralized material” under their definitions of “mineral resource,” “measured mineral resource,” “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource”, which conform to the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum definitions of those terms as of the effective date of estimation, as required by National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have economic viability. Canadian issuers use the terms “mineral resources” and its subcategories “measured,” “indicated” and “inferred” mineral resources. While such terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
(3)
GSR1, GSR2 and NVR1 additional mineralized material are a subset of the additional mineralized material covered by GSR3.
(4)
The Company’s royalty is subject to a 2.0 million ounce cap on gold production.
(5)
Cut-off grade of 0.015 ounces per ton.
(6)
Development stage property.
(7)
Operator has reported estimates by deposit types. An oxide deposit is one in which the oxide minerals predominate. A sulfide deposit is one in which the sulfide minerals predominate.
(8)
Coeur d’Alene revised its December 31, 2006, reserve estimates in June 2007. Coeur d’Alene did not provide additional mineralized material updates during its June 2007 revisions.
(9)
Goldcorp revised its December 31, 2006, additional mineralized estimates in June 2007. The amounts shown reflect the June 2007 updates by Goldcorp.
NOTE:
Additional mineralized material was not reported by the operators for SJ Claims-Goldstrike, Robinson, Taparko, and Pascua-Lama.
Royalties on Exploration Stage Properties
The following are descriptions of our interests in royalties on inactive or exploration stage properties. There are no proven and probable reserves associated with these properties at this time.
Mule Canyon
We own a 5.0% NSR royalty on a portion of the Mule Canyon property located in Lander County, Nevada, approximately 12 miles southeast of Battle Mountain, Nevada. This property is controlled by Newmont.
Buckhorn South Project
We own a 16.5% NPI royalty on the Buckhorn South project. The Buckhorn South project, controlled by the Cortez Joint Venture, is approximately 5,000 acres and is located in Eureka County, Nevada, approximately 50 miles southwest of Elko, Nevada, and approximately two miles south of Buckhorn mine.
Long Valley
We own a 1.0% NSR royalty on the Long Valley gold project 10 miles east of Mammoth Lakes, California. The project is a claim group consisting of 95 claims. The project is controlled by Vista Gold Corporation.
RG Russia
On June 20, 2003, through a newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary, RG Russia, Inc., we entered into an agreement for exploration in Russia with a subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Exploration Corporation, who holds an exploration license granted by the Russian government. As part of the exploration agreement, we provided exploration funding totaling $1.3 million to vest in a 1.0% NSR royalty interest. On May 3, 2005, the subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Exploration Corporation entered into an agreement with Fortress Minerals Corporation (“Fortress”), whereby Fortress acquired a 51% indirect interest in the Svetloye project, with an option to earn an additional 29% indirect interest by completion of certain work requirements. Our 1.0% NSR royalty remains in effect as to 100% of the project. Fortress is actively exploring the property.
Taranis Resources Inc.
On November 4, 2005, we entered into two Exploration and Earn-In Agreements (the “Agreements”) with Taranis Resources Inc. (“Taranis”) with respect to its exploration program in Finland. As part of the first Agreement, we will obtain a 2.0% NSR royalty and future earn-in rights on any new property acquired by Taranis in Finland as a result of its regional exploration program. Please see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on our funding commitments as part of the Agreements.
Argentine Royalties
Hidefield controls properties located in the eastern part of the Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, which are not in production. We own a 2.0% NSR royalty on these properties, which have been actively explored during our fiscal year 2007.
Simon Creek
We own a 1.0% NSR royalty on the Simon Creek property. The Simon Creek property is located in Eureka County, Nevada, and is controlled by Barrick.
Horse Mountain
We own a 0.25% net value royalty on the Horse Mountain property. The Horse Mountain property is located in Lander County, Nevada, and is controlled by Barrick.
Ferris/Cooks Creek
We own a 1.50% net value royalty interest on net revenues derived from the Ferris/Cooks Creek property, which is located in Lander County, Nevada, and is controlled by Barrick.
Rye
We own a 0.5% NSR royalty on the Rye property. The Rye property is located in Pershing County, Nevada, and is controlled by Barrick.
BSC
We own a 2.5% NSR royalty on the BSC property. The BSC property is located in Elko County, Nevada, and is controlled by Nevada Pacific Gold.
ICBM
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on a vested 67% interest (approximate) on the ICBM project, located in Lander County and Humboldt County, Nevada. The ICBM project is currently under exploration lease to Staccato Gold (“Staccato”).
Long Peak
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on the Long Peak project, located in Lander County, Nevada. The Long Peak project is currently under exploration lease to Staccato.
Dixie Flats
We own a 0.75% NSR royalty on the Dixie Flats project, located in Elko County, Nevada. We continue to hold 1,280 acres of patented land through an exploration agreement at the Dixie Flats project. The Dixie Flats project is currently under exploration lease to Staccato.
Exploration Properties
Sparrow Hawk Claims
We own 31 unpatented mining claims from Quicksilver Phenomenon, LLC on lands located southeast of the Cortez Joint Venture area, Eureka County, Nevada. There are no reserves or resources identified on this project as of June 30, 2007.
Hoosac Project
We own 16 unpatented claims and control 192 unpatented claims through leases in the Hoosac project. The Hoosac project is located in Eureka County, Nevada. The Hoosac project is not currently under exploration lease.
Bulgarian Exploration
We own a 50% interest in Greek American Exploration Ltd., a Bulgarian private limited company that has an agreement with the Bulgarian Committee of Geology and Mineral Resources to conduct geological research and exploration on a license in Bulgaria.
Greek American Exploration joined with Phelps Dodge Exploration Corporation to form a Bulgarian company named Sofia Minerals Ltd. Sofia Minerals is held equally by Greek American Exploration and Phelps Dodge Exploration. There was no exploration activity during fiscal year 2007 and Sofia Minerals does not currently hold any concession agreements with the Bulgarian Committee of Geology and Mineral Resources. There were no expenses incurred in fiscal year 2007. We are currently in discussions with the other owners of the companies to determine appropriate actions to dissolve the Bulgarian companies.
ITEM 3.