ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We do not own or operate the properties in which we have royalty interests and therefore much of the information disclosed in this Form 10-K regarding these properties is provided to us by the operators. For example, the operators of the various properties provide us information regarding metals production, estimates of mineral reserves and additional mineralized material. Reserves are summarized below in this report in Item 2, Properties, Reserve Information. Our rights to information from the operators under our royalty agreements vary by royalty and by operator and we may not be entitled to information regarding certain properties. We do not participate in the preparation or calculation of the operators' estimates, production reports or reserve calculations and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information.
There is more information available to the public regarding certain properties in which we have royalties, including reports filed with the SEC or with the Canadian securities regulatory agencies available at www.sec.gov or www.sedar.com, respectively. For risks to our business associated with operations of mining properties by third parties see generally the risks described under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. For risks associated with the operators' reserve estimates, please see Part I, Item 1A, Risk
Factors, Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision, of this report for further detail.
The description of our principal royalties set forth in this Item 2, Properties, includes the location, operator, reserves and our royalty rate and interests. The descriptions do not include material current developments at each property. Material current developments announced by the operators are discussed in Item 7, MD&A, of this report.
Principal Royalties on Producing Properties
Recent activities and further information for each of the principal producing properties in which we have a royalty interest are described in the following pages. The Company considers both historical and future potential revenues in determining which royalties in our portfolio are principal to our business. Estimated future potential royalty revenues from both producing and development properties are based on a number of factors, including reserves subject to our royalty interests, production estimates, feasibility studies, metal price assumptions, mine life, legal status and other factors and assumptions, any of which could change and could cause Royal Gold to conclude that one or more of such royalties are no longer principal to our business. Reserves for all of our producing properties are summarized in this report in Item 2, Properties, Reserve Information. As of June 30, 2010, the Company considers the properties discussed below principal to our business.
Andacollo (Region IV, Chile)
We own a royalty on all gold produced from the sulfide portion of the Andacollo copper and gold deposit. The Andacollo Royalty equals 75% of the gold produced from the sulfide portion of the deposit at the Andacollo mine until 910,000 payable ounces of gold have been sold, and 50% of the gold produced in excess of 910,000 payable ounces of gold.
Andacollo is an open-pit copper mine located in central Chile, Region IV in the Coquimbo Province and is operated by a subsidiary of Teck Resources Limited ("Teck"). Andacollo is located in the foothills of the Andes Mountains approximately 1.5 miles southwest of the town of Andacollo. The provincial capital of La Serena and the coastal city of Coquimbo are approximately 34 miles northeast of the Andacollo project by road and Santiago is approximately 215 miles south by air. Access to the mine is provided by taking Route 43 (R-43) south from La Serena to El Peñon. From El Peñon, D-51 is followed east and eventually curving to the south to Andacollo. Both R-43 and D-51 are paved roads.
As of December 31, 2009, Teck estimated that at a $500 per ounce gold price, proven and probable reserves were 437.2 million tons, at an average grade of 0.004 ounces per ton containing 1.631 million ounces of gold.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion on the Andacollo Royalty.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at Andacollo:
Voisey's Bay (Labrador, Canada)
As a result of the IRC Transaction, we own an effective 2.7% NSR royalty on the Voisey's Bay nickel-copper-cobalt mine located in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada and operated by Vale. The Company owns 90% of a 3.0% NSR (or 2.7%) while a non-controlling interest owns the remainder. The Voisey's Bay project is located on the northeast coast of Labrador, on a peninsula bordered to the north by Anaktalak Bay and to the south by Voisey's Bay. The nearest communities are Nain, approximately 20 miles northeast, and Natuashish, approximately 50 miles southeast. The property is 205 miles north of Happy Valley-Goose Bay, in south-central Labrador, and 560 miles north-northwest of St. John's, the capital of the Province. Access to the property is by helicopter, small aircraft or tracked vehicles during the winter.
As of December 31, 2009, Vale reported that nickel, copper and cobalt reserves were 27.6 million tons, at an average grade of 2.71% nickel, 1.58% copper and 0.13% cobalt containing 1,493 million pounds of nickel, 873 million pounds of copper and 74 million pounds of cobalt. Reserves were calculated at $11.01 or less per pound of nickel, $2.91 or less per pound of copper, and $22.70 or less per pound of cobalt.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for a further discussion on the IRC Transaction.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at Voisey's Bay:
Cortez (Nevada, USA)
Cortez is a large open pit, mill and heap leach operation located approximately 60 air miles southwest of Elko, Nevada, in Lander County. The site is reached by driving west from Elko on Interstate 80 approximately 46 miles, and proceeding south on State Highway 306 approximately 23 miles. Cortez includes the Pipeline, South Pipeline, Gap and Crossroads deposits and is operated by subsidiaries of Barrick.
The royalty interests we hold at Cortez include:
(a)Reserve Claims ("GSR1"). This is a sliding-scale GSR royalty for all products from an area originally known as the "Reserve Claims," which includes the majority of the Pipeline and South Pipeline deposits. As defined in our royalty agreement with Cortez, our GSR royalty applies to revenues attributed to products mined and removed, with no deduction for any costs paid by or charged to Cortez, except for deductions for refining and transportation of doré and Mining Law reform costs. Mining Law reform costs include all amounts paid by or charged to Cortez for any royalty, assessment, production tax or other levy imposed on and measured by production, to the extent that any such levy is hereafter imposed by the United States in connection with reform of the General Mining Law or otherwise. As defined, no such Mining Law reform costs are currently deducted since no such reform has occurred. The revenues attributed to Cortez are determined on a deemed market value basis of total production for each calendar quarter outturned to Cortez's account at the refiner. The GSR
royalty rate on the Reserve Claims is tied to the gold price as shown in the table below and does not include indexing for inflation or deflation.
(b)GAS Claims ("GSR2"). This is a sliding-scale GSR royalty for all products from an area outside of the Reserve Claims, originally known as the "GAS Claims," which encompasses approximately 50% of the GAP deposit and all of the Crossroads deposit. The GSR royalty rate on the GAS Claims, as shown in the table below, is tied to the gold price, without indexing for inflation or deflation, and applies to revenues attributed to products mined and removed, with no deduction of costs, except for refining and transportation of doré and Mining Law reform costs, if any. The GSR2 royalty applies to the mining claims that comprise the Crossroads deposit and approximately 50% of the GAP deposit.
(c)Reserve and GAS Claims Fixed Royalty ("GSR3"). The GSR3 royalty is a fixed rate GSR royalty of 0.7125% and originally covered the same cumulative area as is covered by our two sliding-scale GSR royalties, GSR1 and GSR2. However, our GSR3interest does not cover the mining claims that comprise the undeveloped Crossroads deposit.
(d)Net Value Royalty ("NVR1"). This is a fixed 1.25% NVR on production from the GAS Claims located on a portion of Cortez that excludes the Pipeline open pit. The Company owns 31.6% of the 1.25% NVR (or 0.39%) while limited partners (including certain directors of the Company) in the partnership, which is consolidated in our financial statements, own the remaining portion of the 1.25% NVR. This NVR1 royalty is calculated by deducting contract defined processing-related and associated capital costs, but not mining costs, from the revenue received by the operator for production from the area covered by the royalty. Our 0.39% portion of the NVR1 royalty does not cover the mining claims that comprise the undeveloped Crossroads deposit.
We also own three other royalties in the Cortez area where there is currently no production and no reserves attributed to these royalty interests.
The following shows the current sliding-scale GSR1 and GSR2 royalty rates under our royalty agreement with Cortez:
Under certain circumstances we would be entitled to delayed production payments (i.e., payments not recoupable by Cortez) of $400,000 per year.
Barrick estimated that at an $825 per ounce gold price, proven and probable reserves related to our royalty interests at Cortez includes 134.2 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.039 ounces per ton, containing approximately 5.244 million ounces of gold as of December 31, 2009.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion of recent developments at Cortez.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at Cortez:
Taparko (Burkina Faso, West Africa)
We own a 15.0% GSR royalty (TB-GSR1) and a sliding-scale GSR royalty (TB-GSR2), ranging from 0% to 10.0% depending on the price of gold, on all gold produced from the Taparko open pit gold mine. The Taparko mine is located in Burkina Faso, West Africa, and is operated by Somita, a subsidiary of High River. The Taparko mine is accessible by paved roads and is approximately 125 miles northeast of Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso.
TB-GSR1 will remain in effect until cumulative production of 804,420 ounces of gold is achieved or until cumulative payments of $35 million have been made to Royal Gold, whichever is earlier. TB-GSR2 will remain in effect until the termination of TB-GSR1. Production at the Taparko mine commenced during our first fiscal quarter of 2008. As of June 30, 2010, we have recognized royalty revenue associated with the TB-GSR1 royalty totaling $30.6 million, which is attributable to cumulative production of approximately 202,000 ounces of gold. Management estimates that, based on Taparko's last three quarters of production and its calendar 2010 production guidance, the $35 million cap associated with TB-GSR1 could be met during the third calendar quarter of 2010.
We also own a perpetual 2.0% GSR royalty (TB-GSR3) on all gold produced from the Taparko mine that applies to production following the termination of TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 royalties. A portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty is associated with existing proven and probable reserves and has been classified as a development stage royalty interest. The remaining portion of the TB-GSR3 royalty, which is not currently associated with proven and probable reserves, is classified as an exploration stage royalty interest.
In addition, we own a 0.75% milling fee royalty (TB-MR1) on all gold processed through the Taparko mine processing facilities that is mined from any area outside of the Taparko mine area, subject to a maximum of 1.1 million tons per year. There currently are no proven and probable reserves associated with TB-MR1, and this royalty is classified as an exploration stage royalty interest.
As of December 31, 2009, High River estimated that at an $800 per ounce gold price, proven and probable reserves include 8.0 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.085 ounces per ton, containing 0.683 million ounces of gold. Management estimates that as of December 31, 2009, 0.132 million contained ounces will be depleted to reach the $35 million cap on TB-GSR1 royalty. Upon meeting the $35 million cap, the remaining 0.551 million contained ounces of estimated gold will be associated with the TB-GSR3 royalty once it becomes effective.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion of recent developments at Taparko.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at the Taparko mine:
Robinson Mine (Nevada, USA)
We own a 3.0% NSR royalty on all mineral production from the Robinson open pit mine operated by a subsidiary of Quadra. The Robinson mine produces two flotation concentrates for sale to third party smelters. One concentrate contains copper, gold and silver. The second is a molybdenum concentrate. Access to the property is via Nevada State Highway 50, 6.5 miles west of Ely, Nevada, in White Pine County.
As of December 31, 2009, Quadra informed us that the copper and gold reserves were 113.6 million tons, at an average grade of 0.006 ounces per ton of gold, containing 0.704 million ounces of gold and a copper grade of 0.53% containing 1,203 million pounds of copper. The reserves were calculated at $2.00 per pound of copper and $800 per ounce of gold. Silver and molybdenum reserves were not reported but are produced and sold as by-products.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion of recent developments at Robinson.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at the Robinson mine:
Leeville (Nevada, USA)
We own a carried working interest, equal to a 1.8% NSR royalty, which covers the majority of the Leeville property, in Eureka County, Nevada. The Leeville Mining Complex is approximately 19 air miles northwest of Carlin, Nevada, and is operated by a subsidiary of Newmont. The property is accessed by driving north from Carlin on Nevada State Highway 766 for 19 miles and then on an improved gravel road for two miles.
At Leeville, proven and probable reserves, at an $800 per ounce gold price, include 5.3 million tons of ore, at an average grade of 0.338 ounces per ton, containing 1.790 million ounces of gold as of December 31, 2009.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at Leeville:
Mulatos (Sonora, Mexico)
We own a 1.0% to 5.0% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Mulatos open pit mine in southeastern Sonora, Mexico. The Mulatos mine is located approximately 137 miles east of the city of Hermosillo and 186 miles south of the border with the United States and is operated by Alamos. Access to the mine from the city of Hermosillo can be made via private chartered flight or paved and gravel road.
The Mulatos royalty is capped at 2.0 million gold ounces of production. As of June 30, 2010, approximately 581,000 cumulative ounces of gold have been produced.
As of December 31, 2009, based upon a gold price of $800 per ounce, Alamos has reported proven and probable reserves of 67.9 million tons, at an average grade of 0.035 ounces per ton, containing 2.387 million ounces of gold.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion of recent developments at Mulatos.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at the Mulatos mine:
Peñasquito (Zacatecas, Mexico)
We own a production payment equivalent to a 2.0% NSR royalty on all metal production from the Peñasquito project, located in the State of Zacatecas, Mexico, and operated by Goldcorp. The Peñasquito project is located approximately 17 miles west of the town of Concepción del Oro, Zacatecas, Mexico. The project, composed of two main deposits called Peñasco and Chile Colorado, hosts large silver, gold, zinc and lead reserves. The deposits contain both oxide and sulfide material. Access to the site is via either paved or cobbled roads west out of Concepcion del Oro nine miles to the town of Mazapil and then further approximately seven miles west from Mazapil.
Goldcorp estimates that at a gold price of $825 per ounce and a silver price of $13 per ounce, proven and probable oxide reserves as of December 31, 2009 total 79.9 million tons of ore, at an average gold grade of 0.005 ounces per ton, containing 0.400 million ounces of gold, and at an average silver grade of 0.43 ounces per ton containing 34.5 million ounces of silver. Estimates for the sulfide reserves use the same gold and silver prices as the oxide reserve and include lead and zinc reserve estimates at a reserve price of $0.60 per pound for lead and $0.80 per pound for zinc. Proven and probable sulfide reserves as of December 31, 2009 include 1,261.9 million tons of ore, at an average gold grade of 0.014 ounces per ton, a silver grade of 0.82 ounces per ton, a lead grade of 0.29% and a zinc grade of 0.63% yielding contained metal of 17.420 million ounces of gold, 1,035.6 million ounces of silver, 7,211 million pounds of lead and 15,930 million pounds of zinc.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion of recent developments at Peñasquito.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at Peñasquito:
Dolores (Chihuahua, Mexico)
We own a 1.25% NSR royalty on gold and a 2.0% NSR royalty on both gold and silver from the Dolores project located in Chihuahua, Mexico, and operated by Minefinders. The Dolores project is located approximately 155 miles west of the city of Chihuahua, Mexico. The property can be accessed by approximately 56 miles of recently upgraded access road from Yepachi, Chihuahua, to the mine site. Access to the property can also be achieved by light aircraft landing on a dirt strip located about five miles from the mine site.
As of December 31, 2008, based upon a gold and silver price of $600 and $10 per ounce, respectively, Minefinders reported proven and probable gold reserves of 109.5 million tons, at an average gold grade of 0.022 ounces per ton, and an average silver grade of 1.16 ounces per ton, containing 2.444 million ounces of gold and 126.6 million ounces of silver. The Company did not receive updated reserve information as of December 31, 2009 from the operator.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion of recent developments at Dolores.
The following map depicts the area subject to our royalty interests at Dolores:
Las Cruces (Andalucía, Spain)
As a result of the IRC Transaction, we own a 1.5% NSR royalty on the Las Cruces copper project located in Andalucía, Spain and operated by Inmet. The Las Cruces mine is located in the Sevilla Province of southern Spain, about 12 miles northwest of the Province capital city of Seville. Access to the site is by well-maintained paved roads.
As of December 31, 2009, Inmet reported copper reserves of 18.2 million tons, at an average grade of 6.3% copper, containing 2,304 million pounds of copper. Reserves were calculated at $2.00 per pound of copper.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for a further discussion of the IRC Transaction.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at Las Cruces:
Gwalia Deeps (Western Australia, Australia)
As a result of the IRC Transaction, we own a 1.5% NSR royalty on gold produced from the Gwalia Deeps mine located near the town of Leonora, Western Australia and operated by St. Barbara. The Gwalia Deeps mine in an underground mine within St. Barbara's Leonora operations. The mine can be accessed by taking the Goldfields Highway north out of Kalgoorlie for approximately 245 miles to the town of Leonora.
As of June 30, 2009, St. Barbara Limited reported gold reserves of 8.7 million tons, at an average grade of 0.227 ounces per ton, containing 1.980 million ounces of gold. Reserves were calculated at
A$1,250 (Australian dollars) for the operator's fiscal 2010 and at A$850 (Australian dollars) per ounce of gold thereafter.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for a further discussion on the IRC Transaction.
The following aerial photo depicts the area subject to our royalty interest at Gwalia Deeps:
Principal Royalties on Development Stage Properties
The following is a description of our principal royalty interests on development stage properties. There are proven and probable reserves associated with these properties as indicated below. These development stage royalty interests are not currently in production. Reserves for all of our development stage properties are summarized below in this report in Item 2, Properties-Reserve Information.
Pascua-Lama Project (Region III, Chile)
As of June 30, 2010, we own a 0.67% to 4.48% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Pascua-Lama project located on both sides of the border between Argentina and Chile, and operated by Barrick. Our royalty interest is applicable to all gold production from the portion of the Pascua-Lama project lying on the Chilean side of the border. As discussed in further detail in Item 7, MD&A, under "Recent Developments, Business Developments," on July 1, 2010, the Company entered into two separate assignment of rights agreements with two private Chilean citizens whereby Royal Gold acquired (i) a 0.35% sliding-scale NSR royalty and (ii) the right to acquire an additional 0.40% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Pascua-Lama project. Upon the closing of the 0.40% sliding-scale NSR royalty acquisition, which is expected to occur during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company's sliding-scale NSR on the Pascua-Lama project will be 0.78% to 5.23%. The Company has certain contingent rights and obligation with respect to the portion of the Pascua-Lama royalty acquired in the IRC Transaction. Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, under "Recent Developments, Business Developments" for further discussion on the contingent rights and obligations.
The Pascua-Lama project is located within 7 miles of Barrick's operating Veladero mine. Access to the project is from the city of Vallenar, Region III, Chile, via secondary roads C-485 to Alto del Carmen, Chile, and C-489 from Alto del Carmen to El Corral, Chile.
As of June 30, 2010, the sliding-scale NSR royalty is based upon the gold prices as shown in the following table.
Note: Royalty rate is interpolated between the upper and lower endpoints.
Upon completion of the acquisition of the additional royalty interest, the sliding-scale NSR royalty is based upon the gold prices as shown in the following table:
Note: Royalty rate is interpolated between the upper and lower endpoints.
The Company will own an additional royalty equivalent to 1.05% upon completion of acquisition of the additional royalty interest of proceeds from copper produced from the Chilean portion of the project, net of allowable deductions, sold on or after January 1, 2017.
The Pascua-Lama project is currently under construction. Barrick has estimated commissioning in late calendar 2012 and production in early calendar 2013.
As of December 31, 2008, Barrick estimated proven and probable reserves at a $750 per ounce gold price, totaled 324.7 million tons, at an average of 0.045 ounces per ton, containing 14.615 million ounces of gold.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion on our Pascua-Lama interest.
Canadian Malartic (Quebec, Canada)
We own a 2.0% to 3.0% sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic gold project located in Quebec, Canada, and owned by Osisko. The Canadian Malartic gold property is located in the Abitibi Gold Belt in Quebec, Canada, immediately south of the town of Malartic, Quebec, approximately 16 miles west of the town of Val d'Or. The northern extents of the Canadian Malartic property can be accessed directly from the Trans Canadian Highway 117.
As of December 31, 2008, Osisko announced the completion of a positive feasibility study resulting in proven and probable reserves at a $775 gold price of 150.6 million tons of ore, at a grade of 0.031 ounces per ton, and containing 4.727 million ounces of gold that are subject to our royalty interest.
The royalty is subject to a buy-down right for $1.0 to $1.5 million. If the buy down right is exercised by Osisko, the sliding-scale NSR royalty would be reduced to range between 1.0% and 1.5%. There is no expiration date on the buy down right.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion on recent developments at Canadian Malartic.
Holt (Ontario, Canada)
We own a sliding-scale NSR royalty on the Holt portion of the Holloway-Holt mining project located in Ontario, Canada and owned 100% by St Andrew. The Holloway-Holt project straddles Ontario Provincial Highway 101 for approximately 25 miles beginning east of Matheson, Ontario, Canada and extending to the Quebec, Canada border. The sliding-scale NSR royalty rate on gold produced from the Holt portion of the mining project is calculated by multiplying 0.00013 by the quarterly average gold price. For example, at a quarterly average gold price of $950 per ounce, the effective royalty rate payable would be 12.35%. The operator has disputed its obligation in respect of
the royalty is limited to only a portion of the total royalty payable. Please refer to Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for more information regarding the dispute.
St Andrew has brought the Holloway mine back into production and is performing the necessary work to maintain the Holt mine in a condition that allows for an easy start-up of mining activities once the Holt royalty litigation is satisfactorily resolved. According to St Andrew's public filings in Canada from June 2008, at a gold price of $775 per ounce, proven and probable reserves subject to Royal Gold's royalty equal 3.0 million tons at a grade of 0.165 ounces per ton, containing 0.486 million ounces of gold.
Please refer to Item 7, MD&A, of this report for further discussion on recent developments on our Holt royalty.
Wolverine (Yukon, Canada)
As a result of the IRC Transaction, we own a 0.00% to 9.445% sliding-scale NSR royalty on all gold and silver produced from the Wolverine project located in Yukon Territory, Canada, and operated by Yukon Zinc. The Wolverine property is located 106 miles north-northwest of Watson Lake in south central Yukon. Access to the property is provided by a 17 mile gravel road heading south and then northeast to the Robert Campbell Highway at a point approximately 120 miles north of Watson Lake.
The sliding-scale NSR royalty on all gold and silver is based on the silver price as show in the following table:
As of October, 2007, Yukon Zinc reported reserves of 5.3 million tons, at an average grade of 0.039 ounces per ton gold and 8.13 ounces per ton silver, containing 0.205 thousand ounces of gold and 42.8 million ounces of silver. Reserves were calculated using an $80 per tonne NSR cut-off.
Reserve Information
Table 1 below summarizes proven and probable reserves for gold, silver, copper, zinc and lead that have been reported to us by the operators of our royalty interests as of December 31, 2009. Properties are currently in production unless noted as development ("DEV") within the table. Properties for which we did not receive certain reserve breakdowns or information are noted as "DNR" within the table. Please refer to pages 39-41 for the footnotes to Table 1.
TABLE 1
(1)Set forth below are the definitions of proven and probable reserves used by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Reserve" is that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
"Proven (Measured) Reserves" are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, and the grade is computed from the results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of the reserves are well established.
"Probable (Indicated) Reserves" are reserves for which the quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance of probable (indicated) reserves, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume geological continuity between points of observation.
(2)Royal Gold has disclosed a number of reserve estimates that are provided by mine operators that are foreign issuers and are not based on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's definitions for proven and probable reserves. For Canadian issuers, definitions of "mineral reserve," "proven mineral reserve," and "probable mineral reserve" conform to the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum definitions of these terms as of the effective date of estimation as required by National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators. For Australian issuers, definitions of "mineral reserve," "proven mineral reserve," and "probable mineral reserve" conform with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves prepared by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia, as amended ("JORC Code").
(3)The reserves reported are either estimates received by the various operators or are based on royalty documentation material provided to Royal Gold or which is derived from recent publicly-available information from the operators of the various properties or various recent National Instrument 43-101 or JORC Code reports filed by operators. Accordingly, Royal Gold is not able to reconcile the reserve estimates prepared in reliance on National Instrument 43-101 or JORC Code with definitions of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(4)Reserves have been reported by the operators as of December 31, 2009, with the exception of the following properties: El Chanate-October 2009; Balcooma, Gwalia, South Laverton, and Southern Cross-June 2009; Inata-March 2009; Canadian Malartic, Dolores, Gold Hill and Pascua-Lama-December 2008; Schaft Creek-September 2008; Holt-June 2008; Soledad Mountain-December 2007; Wolverine-October 2007; and Pine Cove-March 2005.
(5)Gold reserves were calculated by the operators at the following per ounce prices: $950-Martha; $825-Bald Mountain, Cortez, Goldstrike, Marigold, Peñasquito and Wharf; $800-El Chanate, Leeville, Mulatos, Robinson, Twin Creeks, Siquiri and Taparko; $775-Canadian Malartic and Holt; $750-Pascua-Lama and Williams; $725-Gold Hill; $700-El Toqui; $600-Dolores, Soledad Mountain and Wolverine; $550-El Limon and Inata; $500-Andacollo; and $425-Pine Cove. For Gwalia Deeps and Southern Cross, a price of A$1,075 was used for St. Barbara's 2010 fiscal year and A$850 per ounce thereafter; $A1,250-South Laverton. Schaft Creek is at a $5.05 net smelter return cut-off grade (metal price assumptions used by the operator were $658 per ounce gold; $10.00 per ounce silver; and $1.93 per pound copper). No gold price was reported for Balcooma, Meekatharra (Paddy's Flat) or Meekatharra (Yaloginda).
(6)"Contained ounces" or "contained pounds" do not take into account recovery losses in processing the ore.
(7)The operators at Avebury, Bald Mountain, Canadian Malartic, Dolores, El Limon, Goldstrike, Marigold and Mt. Goode did not provide a breakdown of proven and probable reserves.
(8)NVR1 and GSR3 reserves and additional mineralized material are subsets of the reserves and additional mineralized material covered by GSR1 and GSR2.
(9)The 2.0% NSR royalty interest covers the majority of six sections of land, containing a number of open pits, but does not cover the current mining in the Basalt/Antler area.
(10)In November 2008, the operator made application to a court in Ontario, Canada for a declaration that it is not obligated to pay the entire royalty defined under the royalty agreement and to dispute the royalty rate. The operator claims that its predecessor in interest is responsible for payment of some or all of the royalty. On July 23, 2009, the Court held that Royal Gold is entitled to payment from the predecessor of the full amount of the NSR sliding-scale royalty and that the operator's obligation is to reimburse the predecessor for payment of the royalty up to a flat rate of 0.013% NSR. On August 21, 2009, the predecessor appealed the portion of the judgment holding them responsible for paying the royalty and on December 9, 2009, Royal Gold was made a party to the appeal.
(11)Operator reports reserves by material type. The sulfide material will be processed by milling. The oxide material will be processed by heap leaching.
(12)Royalty applies to all gold production from an area of interest in Chile. Only that portion of the reserves pertaining to our royalty interest in Chile is reflected here.
(13)Approximately 74% of the royalty is limited to the first 14.0 million ounces of gold produced from the project. Also, 30% of the royalty can be extended beyond 14.0M ounces for $6.4 million. In addition, a one-time payment totaling $4.0 million will be made if gold prices exceed $550 per ounce for any six-month period within the first 36 months after commercial production and an additional payment totaling $6.4 million will be made if gold prices exceed $600 per ounce for any six-month period within the first 36 months after commercial production.
(14)Figures reflect reserves associated with the entire property. The operator did not provide a detailed breakdown of the reserves and additional mineralized material subject to Royal Gold's royalty interest. Therefore, a portion of the reserves may not be subject to Royal Gold's royalty interest.
(15)Royalty percentages: TB-GSR1-15.0%; TB-GSR2-4.3% when the average monthly gold price ranges between $385 and $430 per ounce. Outside of this range, the royalty rate is calculated by dividing the average monthly gold price by 100 for gold prices above $430 per ounce (with a 10% cap), or by dividing the average monthly gold price by 90 for gold prices below $385 per ounce (e.g., a $900 per ounce gold price results in a rate of 900/100 = 9.0%). Two subsequent royalties consist of ("TB-GSR3"), applicable to gold production from defined portions of the Taparko-Bouroum project area, and a 0.75% GSR milling royalty ("TB-MR1"). The TB-MR1 royalty applies to ore that is mined outside of the defined area of the Taparko-Bouroum project that is processed through the Taparko facilities up to a maximum of 1.1 million tons per year. Both the TB-GSR3 and TB-MR1 royalties commence once TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 have ceased. Both TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 continue until either production reaches 804,420 ounces of gold, or payments totaling $35 million under TB-GSR1 are received, whichever comes first. As of June 30, 2010, Royal Gold has cumulatively recognized approximately $30.6 million in royalty revenue under TB-GSR1 that is attributable to cumulative production of approximately 171,000 ounces of gold.
(16)Due to the royalty structure at the Taparko mine, reserves are not broken down into proven and probable.
(17)TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 royalties are subject to the same reserve.
(18)The reserves at Taparko have been adjusted by Royal Gold based on actual 2009 depletion and on the operator's reserve gold price assumption of $800 per ounce, to reflect the $35 million cap on the TB-GSR1 royalty. Upon meeting this cap, both the TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2 royalties cease and the TB-GSR3 royalty becomes effective. The TB-GSR3 reserves represent the remaining reserves after subtracting the reserves associated with TB-GSR1 and TB-GSR2.
(19)Silver reserves were calculated by the operators at the following prices per ounce: $16.00-Martha; $13.00-Peñasquito; $12.55-El Toqui; $12.33-Troy; $12.00-Soledad Mountain; and $10.00-Dolores. Shaft Creek is at a $5.05 per tonne net smelter return cut-off grade (metal price assumptions used by the operator were $658 per ounce gold; $10.00 per ounce silver; and $1.93 per pound copper). Wolverine is at a $80 per tonne NSR cut-off grade (metal price assumptions used by the operator were $400 per ounce gold; $7.00 per ounce silver; $1.10 per pound copper; $0.30 per pound lead; and $0.60 per pound zinc). No silver price is available for Balcooma. Don Mario additional mineralized material was calculated at a silver price of $11.00 per ounce.
(20)Copper reserves were calculated by the operators at the following prices per pound: $2.91 or lower-Voisey's Bay; $2.67-Troy; $2.00-Robinson and Las Cruces; $1.50-Johnson Camp. Shaft Creek is at a $5.05 net smelter return cut-off grade (metal price assumptions used by the operator were $658 per ounce gold; $10.00 per ounce silver; and $1.93 per pound copper). No copper price is available for Balcooma or Caber.
(21)Lead reserves were calculated by the operators at the following price per pound: $0.83 - El Toqui and $0.60-Peñasquito. No lead price is available for Balcooma.
(22)Zinc reserves were calculated by the operators at the following price per pound: $1.00 - El Toqui; and $0.80-Peñasquito. No zinc price is available for Balcooma or Caber.
(23)Nickel reserve price was calculated by the operator at Voisey's Bay mine at $11.01 or lower per pound. No nickel reserve price is available for Avebury or Mt. Goode.
(24)The operator does not report reserves by property in Australia. Therefore, a portion of the reserves is not subject to Royal Gold's royalty interest.
(25)Cobalt reserve price was calculated by the operator at $22.70 or lower per pound.
ITEM 3.