ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Reserves, Productive Wells, Acreage and Production
The Company holds interests in oil and gas wells located in the United States and West Africa. The Company's principal developed properties are located in California, Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, and Congo, West Africa; undeveloped acreage (see next page for detail) is located primarily in California, Texas, Nevada, Mississippi, Congo and Ghana. Estimated proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1997 increased approximately 16% since December 31, 1996, primarily as a result of development drilling activities. (See Note 16 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company has not filed any different oil or gas reserve information with any foreign government or other Federal authority or agency.
The following table sets forth certain information, as of December 31, 1997, which relates to the Company's principal oil and gas properties:
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
Acreage
The following table sets forth the acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas properties in which the Company held an interest as of December 31, 1997. Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in the gross acres expressed as a whole number and percentages thereof. A "net acre" is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one.
Gross Net ----- ---
Developed Acreage 340,703 155,984 Undeveloped Acreage 4,722,725 4,152,919 --------- --------- Total 5,063,428 4,308,903 ========= =========
The following table sets forth the Company's undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 1997:
Gross Net ----- ---
California 158,062 120,441 Texas 59,595 20,367 Nevada 18,468 2,309 Mississippi 17,692 5,323 Congo, West Africa: Marine I Permit 38,000 16,625 Ghana, West Africa: East Cape Three Points 1,700,000 1,275,000 Accra-Keta 2,700,000 2,700,000 Other 30,908 12,854 --------- --------- Total 4,722,725 4,152,919 ========= ========= Productive Wells
The following table sets forth the Company's gross and net interests in productive oil and gas wells as of December 31, 1997. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production.
Gross Net ----- ---
Oil Wells 2,892 2,451 Gas Wells 314 123 ----- ----- Total 3,206 2,574 ===== =====
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
Production
The Company's principal production volumes for the year ended December 31, 1997, were from the states of California, Texas, Alabama, Louisiana, and from the Congo, West Africa.
Data relating to production volumes, average sales prices, average unit production costs and oil and gas reserve information appears in Note 16 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Drilling Activity and Present Activities
During the three year period ended December 31, 1997, the Company's principal drilling activities occurred in the continental United States and offshore in state and Federal waters, and offshore the Congo in West Africa.
The Company believes that its demonstrated ability to reduce operating costs to levels well below those of the larger oil and gas companies from which acquisitions have been made allows it to compete successfully in an industry characterized by fluctuating commodity prices.
Between the date of the California Properties acquisition, April 9, 1996, and the end of 1997, the Company drilled 171 wells in the Cymric field in central California, which contained 14% of the Company's total estimated net proved equivalent reserves at December 31, 1997, and anticipates drilling approximately 95 wells during 1998. In the Midway-Sunset field in central California, which contained 14% of the total estimated net proved equivalent reserves at December 31, 1997, the Company drilled 58 wells during 1997, and plans to drill approximately 55 wells in 1998.
In the Oak Hill field in Rusk County, Texas, the Company drilled 29 wells in 1997. The Company received Texas Railroad Commission approval for 80 acre spacing in March 1995, providing a total of 189 additional drilling locations (130 remain as of December 31, 1997), 50 of which are included in the Company's estimated net proved reserve volumes at December 31, 1997. The Company commenced a two rig drilling program in July 1996, and plans to continue drilling through 1998.
In 1996, the Company sold 177 producing wells and the majority of its undeveloped acreage in the Giddings field and East Texas Austin Chalk formation for $27.3 million. The Company retained ownership of several wells and surrounding acreage in the Turkey Creek prospect area of the Austin Chalk trend. The Company drilled 5 wells in 1997 and 3 wells in 1996 in this area. Three of the five wells drilled in 1997 tested at gross rates of over 18 MMCFD.
In 1997, the Company drilled an exploration well to evaluate the Lower Sendji and sub-salt sections underlying the Masseko structure located several miles to the west of the Yombo field in the Congo, as well as to further delineate the Upper Sendji and Tchala zones, which were discovered but not developed by the previous operator. This well tested at rates over 3,000 gross barrels per day from a newly discovered middle Sendji section. Platform design and development plans are being evaluated and will be formulated in
1998. Other potential exploration features are being evaluated for possible future drilling. Additionally, the Company initiated a waterflood project to enhance production from existing Upper Sendji and Tchala zones. During 1996, the Company completed a six well development drilling program in the Congo, which contributed approximately 1,800 gross barrels of oil per day during 1997. Also during 1996, the Company drilled a successful exploration well, the B-14 to the Lower Sendji formation in the Yombo field. This well is completed in half of the 236 feet of net pay and has produced over 900 gross MBOE as of December 31, 1997. Plans for 1998 include offset development drilling to the B-14 well and three shallow infill wells associated with the waterflood implementation.
The Company's exploration program resulted in nine successful wells out of 14 drilled in 1997. The Company's most significant discoveries in 1997 were in: (i) the Masseko structure offshore Congo, West Africa, (ii) the Monument Junction reservoir in Cymric field, California; and (iii) Tranquillon Ridge, offshore California. In 1996, the Company's exploration program resulted in 6 successful wells out of 13 drilled. Discoveries included sections in the Yombo field, Cymric field and at North Riley Ridge in Western Wyoming. In 1995, the Company's exploration program resulted in 7 successful wells out of 16 drilled in Hinds County, Mississippi and Cameron Parish, Louisiana.
The Company had 23 gross (18.66 net) wells in progress at December 31, 1997. The following table sets forth the results of drilling activity by the Company, net to its interest, for the last three calendar years. Gross wells, as it applies to wells in the following tables, refers to the number of wells in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and percentages thereof.
Exploratory Wells ----------------- Gross Net ------------------------------ ----------------------------- Dry Dry Productive Holes Total Productive Holes Total --------------------------------------------------------------
1995 7 9 16 1.32 1.97 3.29 1996 6 7 13 3.40 2.09 5.49 1997 9 5 14 6.63 2.33 8.96
Development Wells ----------------- Gross Net ------------------------------ ----------------------------- Dry Dry Productive Holes Total Productive Holes Total --------------------------------------------------------------
1995 53 0 53 15.30 --- 15.30 1996 149 1 150 125.24 1.00 126.24 1997 236 1 237 217.52 1.00 218.52
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
Gas Plant, Pipelines and Other Facilities
As of December 31, 1997, the Company owned interests in the following gas plant and pipeline facilities:
Capacity Throughput Ownership Facility State Operator MMCFD MMCFD Interest -------- ----- -------- -------- ---------- ---------
Illini Illinois Illini Carrier, 50 11.8 100% Carrier L.P.
Bright Star Texas Bright Star Gathering 30 3.1 72% Incorporated
Stearns Gas California Torch Operating 6 3.6 100% Plant Company
Santa Clara California Torch Operating 18 9.5 100% Plant Company
HS&P Gas California Torch Operating 13 4.5 80% Plant Company
The Richfield Gas Storage facility is located in Morton County, Kansas and is operated by Duke Energy Field Services, Inc. The storage facility has a working gas capacity of 5 BCF with firm gas storage agreements for 3.5 BCF in place at December 31, 1997. The Company owns a 48.5% interest in the facility.
On May 2, 1997, Nuevo Liquids, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, sold its 95% interest in NuStar Joint Venture, which held the Company's investment in the Benedum Plant System, for proceeds of $25.0 million. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $2.3 million. The effective date of this sale was January 1, 1997. Additionally, in December 1997, the Company announced its intention to dispose of the remainder of its non-core gas gathering, pipeline and storage assets during 1998. Such assets include the Company's 48.5% interest in the Richfield Gas Storage facility, an 80% interest in Bright Star Gathering, Inc. and the Illini pipeline. This resulted in a non-cash, pre- tax charge to fourth quarter 1997 earnings of approximately $26.0 million, reflecting the estimated loss on the disposition of these assets. The Company's results of operations will include operating results from these assets through the disposition date; however these assets will no longer be depreciated. The Company will retain its California gas plants, as these plants are strategic assets for the Company's oil and gas activities in California.
Risk Factors
Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices
The Company's financial condition, operating results, future growth and the carrying value of its oil and gas properties are substantially dependent on prevailing prices of oil and gas. The Company's ability to maintain or increase its borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
terms is also substantially dependent upon oil and gas prices. Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include weather conditions in the United States, the condition of the United States economy, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC"), governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign oil imports and the availability of alternate fuel sources. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have an adverse effect on the Company's carrying value of its proved reserves, borrowing capacity, the Company's ability to obtain additional capital, and its revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations.
Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects.
A portion of the Company's production is California heavy oil. The market for California heavy oil differs substantially from the established market indices for oil and gas, due principally to the higher transportation and refining costs associated with heavy oil. As a result, the price received for heavy oil is generally lower than the price for medium and light oil, and the production costs associated with heavy oil are relatively higher than for lighter grades. The margin (sales price minus production costs) on heavy oil sales is generally less than for lighter oil, and the effect of material price decreases will more adversely affect the profitability of heavy oil production compared with lighter grades of oil.
Reserve Replacement Risks
The Company's future performance depends upon its ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, exploitation or acquisition activities, the Company's reserves and revenues will decline. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost.
The successful acquisition and development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. In addition, no assurances can be given that the Company's exploitation and development activities will result in any increases in reserves. The Company's operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of lack of adequate capital and other factors, such as title problems, weather, compliance with governmental regulations or price controls, mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In addition, the costs of exploitation and development may materially exceed initial estimates.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
Substantial Capital Requirements
The Company makes, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and gas reserves. Historically, the Company has financed these expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and the proceeds of debt and equity issuances. The Company believes that it will have sufficient cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under its bank credit facility to fund planned capital expenditures. If revenues or the Company's borrowing base decreases as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, the Company may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations will be available to meet these requirements.
Uncertainty of Estimates of Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which are to some degree speculative and may vary considerably from actual results. Therefore, actual production, revenues, taxes, and development and operating expenditures may not occur as estimated. Future results of operations of the Company will depend upon its ability to develop, produce and sell its oil and gas reserves. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data.
Operating Risks
Nuevo's operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution, earthquakes and other environmental risks. These risks could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Moreover, offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, to more extensive governmental regulation, including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage, and to interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental or other considerations. The Company's operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages.
Foreign Investments
The Company's foreign investments involve risks typically associated with investments in emerging markets such as an uncertain political, economic, legal and tax environments and expropriation and nationalization of assets. In addition, if a dispute arises in its foreign operations, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the United States. The Company attempts to conduct its business and financial affairs so as to protect against political and economic risks applicable to operations in the various countries where it operates, but there can be no assurance the Company will be successful in protecting against such risks.
The Company's international assets and operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including, among other things, the risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, changing political conditions, international monetary fluctuations, currency controls and foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. In addition, if a dispute arises with foreign operations, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons, especially foreign oil ministries and national oil companies, to the jurisdiction of the United States.
The Company's private ownership of oil and gas reserves under oil and gas leases in the United States differs distinctly from its ownership of foreign oil and gas properties. In the foreign countries in which the Company does business, the state generally retains ownership of the minerals and consequently retains control of (and in many cases, participates in) the exploration and production of hydrocarbon reserves. Accordingly, operations outside the United States, and estimates of reserves attributable to properties located outside the United States, may be materially affected by host governments through royalty payments, export taxes and regulations, surcharges, value added taxes, production bonuses and other charges.
Hedging
The Company periodically seeks to reduce its exposure to price volatility by hedging its production through swaps, options and other commodity derivative instruments. In a typical hedging transaction, the Company will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge and a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, the Company is required to pay the counterparty
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
the difference. The Company would be required to pay the counterparty the difference between such prices regardless of whether the Company's production was sufficient to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. In addition, the index used to calculate the floating price in a hedge is frequently not the same as the prices actually received for the production hedged. The difference (referred to as basis differential) may be material, and may reduce the benefit or increase the detriment caused by a particular hedge. There is not an established pricing index for hedges of California heavy crude oil production, and the cash market for heavy oil production in California tends to vary widely from index prices typically used in oil hedges. Consequently, hedging California heavy crude oil is particularly subject to the risks associated with volatile basis differentials.
Competition; Markets for Production
The Company operates in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, exploitation, development and production. The availability of funds and information relating to a property, the standards established by the Company for the minimum projected return on investment, the availability of alternate fuel sources and the intermediate transportation of gas are factors which affect the Company's ability to compete in the marketplace. The Company's competitors include major integrated oil companies and a substantial number of independent energy companies, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than the Company.
The Company's heavy crude oil production in California requires special treatment available only from a limited number of refineries. Substantial damage to such a refinery or closures or reduction in capacity due to financial or other factors could adversely affect the market for the Company's heavy crude oil production.
Environmental and Other Regulation
The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution which might result from the Company's operations. Moreover, the recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on the Company. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
The OPA imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the OPA, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
ITEM 3.