Item 2. Properties
Reserves, Productive Wells, Acreage and Production
The Company holds interests in oil and gas wells located in the United States and West Africa. The Company's principal developed properties are located in California, Texas, Alabama, and offshore Congo, West Africa; undeveloped acreage is located primarily in California, Texas, Congo, Ghana and Tunisia. Estimated proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2000 decreased approximately 14% since December 31, 1999, primarily as a result of price revisions relating to extremely high natural gas prices which adversely affect thermal oil producing property reserves. The estimates are based on realized prices at year-end 2000, of $19.51 per Bbl and $13.94 per Mcf, and are adjusted for the effects of contractual agreements with Unocal and Amoco in connection with the California and Congo property acquisitions. (See Notes 13 and 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company has not filed any different oil or gas reserve information with any foreign government or other Federal authority or agency.
The following table sets forth certain information, as of December 31, 2000, which relates to the Company's principal oil and gas properties:
- --------------- * includes natural gas liquids ** pre-tax
In addition to the information presented in the above table, the Company had entered into swap arrangements on a portion of its future crude production as of December 31, 2000 (see Note 12 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The effects of these hedges would decrease the PV-10 by approximately $39.3 million.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
The summary of SEC reserves, which is presented on the previous page, is computed based on realized prices at December 31, 2000, held constant over time (see Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Oil and gas prices at December 31, 2000, were high compared to historical levels. Management believes that the following reserve information, which reflects fluctuating commodity pricing based on market information available at year-end, is more consistent with management's belief that the current oil and gas prices will revert to long-term historical averages. The following table sets forth this alternative reserve information as of December 31, 2000 (based on forward NYMEX price strips at December 31, 2000, beginning with $24.86 per Bbl and $6.19 per Mcf in 2001, and ending with $18.73 per Bbl and $3.58 per Mcf in 2015). Because the prices used in the following table are lower than the year-end prices Nuevo received for its production, the following does not represent information attributable to "proved reserves" as defined by the SEC.
- --------------- * includes natural gas liquids ** pre-tax
In addition to the information presented in the above table, the Company had entered into swap arrangements on a portion of its future crude production as of December 31, 2000 (see Note 12 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The effects of these hedges would decrease the PV-10 by approximately $19.6 million.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
Acreage
The following table sets forth the acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas properties in which the Company held an interest as of December 31, 2000. Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in the gross acres expressed as a whole number and percentages thereof. A "net acre" is deemed to exist when the sum of the Company's fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one.
The following table sets forth the Company's undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2000:
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth the Company's gross and net interests in productive oil and gas wells as of December 31, 2000. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production.
Production
The Company's principal production volumes for the year ended December 31, 2000, were from California and offshore Congo.
Data relating to production volumes, average sales prices, average unit production costs and oil and gas reserve information appears in Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Drilling Activity and Present Activities
During the three year period ended December 31, 2000, the Company's principal drilling activities occurred in the continental United States and offshore in state and federal waters, and offshore the Congo in West Africa.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
The Company believes that its demonstrated ability to reduce operating costs to levels well below those of the larger oil and gas companies from which acquisitions have been made allows it to compete successfully in an industry characterized by fluctuating commodity prices.
As of December 31, 2000, the Company had drilled 360 wells in the Cymric field in central California, which contained 21% of the Company's total estimated net proved equivalent reserves at December 31, 2000, and anticipates drilling approximately 30 wells in the Cymric field during 2001. In the Midway- Sunset field in central California, which contained 7% of the total estimated net proved equivalent reserves at December 31, 2000, the Company drilled 40 wells during 2000, and plans to defer future development in this field until 2002. In the Belridge field in central California, which contained 7% of the total estimated net proved equivalent reserves at December 31, 2000, the Company drilled 20 wells during 2000, and plans to drill approximately 9 wells in 2001.
In 1999, the Company initiated a waterflood project in the Yombo field offshore Congo to enhance production from existing Upper Sendji and Tchala zones. The Company continued its development drilling program in the Yombo field during 2000 and repaired a pipeline from one of its platforms. Plans for 2001 include the drilling of three to four development wells, expansion of the waterflood program and replacing pipelines from the two platforms.
The Company's most significant discovery in 2000 was the 701 well on its Star Fee lease in the Cymric Field in California, which was acquired from Texaco in 1999. The Star Fee 701 deep well tested at a rate of over 900 BOPD and 1.2 million cubic feet of gas per day, and has already produced over 216 equivalent barrels since August 2000. The Company owns a 100% working and net revenue interest in this well, which is currently producing at rates over 660 BOPD. As a result of this success, additional exploratory wells have been scheduled for drilling in 2001 to further test the deep geologic model. The Company's most significant discoveries in 1998 were: (i) four successful wells at Four Isle Dome in Louisiana, which helped increase net production from 0.6 MMCFPD and 35 BOPD at the beginning of 1998 to 7.9 MMCFPD and 170 BOPD at the end of 1998; (ii) two successful wells at Weeks Island, Louisiana, which each resulted in completions producing in excess of 700 BOPD (the Company's interest in Weeks Island was sold in 1999); and (iii) successful extension to the south and east at the Monument Junction reservoir in the Cymric Field in California.
The Company had two gross (two net) wells in progress at December 31, 2000. The following table sets forth the results of drilling activity by the Company, net to its interest, for the last three calendar years. Gross wells, as it applies to wells in the following tables, refers to the number of wells in which a working interest is owned directly by the Company. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Company in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and percentages thereof.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
Exit Cost Liabilities
With respect to the Company's offshore oil and gas operations in California, the Company has significant exit cost liabilities. These liabilities include costs for dismantlement, rehabilitation and abandonment. As of December 31, 2000, the Company's net liability for these exit costs was approximately $82.1 million. The Company is not indemnified for any part of these exit costs.
Gas Plant, Pipelines and Other Facilities
As of December 31, 2000, the Company owned interests in the following gas plant facilities:
Risk Factors
Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices
Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include weather conditions in the United States, the condition of the United States economy, the actions of OPEC, governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign oil imports and the availability of alternate fuel sources. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or gas would have an adverse effect on the Company's carrying value of its proved reserves, borrowing capacity, the Company's ability to obtain additional capital, and its revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations.
Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects.
Pricing of Heavy Oil Production
A portion of the Company's production is California heavy oil. The market price for California heavy oil differs substantially from the established market indices for oil and gas, due principally to the higher transportation and refining costs associated with heavy oil. As a result, the price received for heavy oil is generally lower than the price for medium and light oil, and the production costs associated with heavy oil are relatively higher than for lighter grades. The margin (sales price minus production costs) on heavy oil sales is generally less than for lighter oil, and the effect of material price decreases will more adversely affect the profitability of heavy oil production compared with lighter grades of oil. (See "Hedging" below for discussion of 15- year crude oil contract).
Reserve Replacement Risks
The Company's future performance depends upon its ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, exploitation or acquisition activities, the Company's reserves and revenues will decline. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
The successful acquisition and development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. In addition, no assurances can be given that the Company's exploitation and development activities will result in any increase in reserves. The Company's operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of lack of adequate capital and other factors, such as title problems, weather, compliance with governmental regulations or price controls, mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In addition, the costs of exploitation and development may materially exceed initial estimates.
Substantial Capital Requirements
The Company makes, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and gas reserves. Historically, the Company has financed these expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and the proceeds of debt and equity issuances. The Company believes that it will have sufficient cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under its bank credit facility to fund planned capital expenditures. If revenues or the Company's borrowing base decreases as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, the Company may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations will be available to meet these requirements.
Uncertainty of Estimates of Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which are to some degree speculative and may vary considerably from actual results. Therefore, actual production, revenues, taxes, and development and operating expenditures may not occur as estimated. Future results of operations of the Company will depend upon its ability to develop, produce and sell its oil and gas reserves. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data.
Operating Risks
Nuevo's operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution, earthquakes and other environmental risks. These risks could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Moreover, offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, to more extensive governmental regulation, including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage, and to interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental or other considerations. The Company's operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages and for existing contamination, but does not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages.
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
California Natural Gas and Electricity Markets
The price of natural gas and the threat of electrical disruptions are factors that create volatility in the Company's California oil and gas operations. Because of the recent developments in these commodities, Nuevo has made significant changes in its natural gas disposition and electricity production in California. Regarding natural gas, Nuevo has a net long position in California - producing more natural gas than consumed in thermal crude production. Moreover, as gas prices escalated in late 2000, Nuevo began to exploit this gas position by diverting gas consumed in uneconomic cyclic steaming operations to gas sales. In January and February 2001, Nuevo sold an average of 19 MMcfd, or 44% of its total daily gas production, which resulted in an increase in gas sales of 33%. This strategy will remain as long as gas prices support sales over thermal oil production.
In California, Nuevo generates a total of 22.5 Megawatts ("MW") of power at various sites. Two turbines came on-line at the Company's Brea Olinda field using gas previously flared. Three turbines in Kern County produce 12 MW of power and cogenerate 15% of Nuevo's total steam needs in thermal operation. By self-generating power consumption in Kern County, Nuevo has reduced it exposure to rising electricity prices. With the exception of the Point Pedernales field, for which the Company has contracted for firm electric power service, Nuevo's facilities receive power under interruptible service contracts. Considering the fact that California is short of electricity and some Nuevo facilities receive interruptible service, the Company could experience periodic power interruptions. In addition, the State of California could change existing rules or impose new rules or regulations with respect to power that could impact the Company's operating costs.
Foreign Investments
The Company's foreign investments involve risks typically associated with investments in emerging markets such as uncertain political, economic, legal and tax environments and expropriation and nationalization of assets. The Company attempts to conduct its business and financial affairs so as to protect against political and economic risks applicable to operations in the various countries where it operates, but there can be no assurance the Company will be successful in protecting against such risks.
The Company's international assets and operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including, among other things, the risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, changing political conditions, international monetary fluctuations, currency controls and foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. In addition, if a dispute arises with foreign operations, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons, especially foreign oil ministries and national oil companies, to the jurisdiction of the United States.
The Company's private ownership of oil and gas reserves under oil and gas leases in the United States differs distinctly from its ownership of foreign oil and gas properties. In the foreign countries in which the Company does business, the state generally retains ownership of the minerals and consequently retains control of (and in many cases, participates in) the exploration and production of hydrocarbon reserves. Accordingly, operations outside the United States, and estimates of reserves attributable to properties located outside the United States, may be materially affected by host governments through royalty payments, export taxes and regulations, surcharges, value added taxes, production bonuses and other charges.
Hedging
During 1999, the Company formalized its policies regarding the management of price risk to ensure the Company's ability to optimally manage its portfolio of investment opportunities. In a typical swap transaction, the Company will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge contract and a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, the Company is required to pay the counterparty the difference. The Company would be required to pay the counterparty the difference between such prices regardless of whether the Company's
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
production was sufficient to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. In addition, the index used to calculate the floating price in a hedge is frequently not the same as the prices actually received for the production hedged. The difference (referred to as basis differential) may be material, and may reduce the benefit or increase the detriment caused by a particular hedge. There is not an established pricing index for hedges of California heavy crude oil production, and the cash market for heavy oil production in California tends to vary widely from index prices typically used in oil hedges. Consequently, prior to 2000, hedging California heavy crude oil was particularly subject to the risks associated with volatile basis differentials. In February 2000, the Company entered into a 15-year contract, effective January 1, 2000, to sell substantially all of its current and future California crude oil production to Tosco Corporation. The contract provides pricing based on a fixed percentage of the NYMEX crude oil price for each type of crude oil that Nuevo produces in California. Therefore, the actual price received as a percentage of NYMEX will vary with the Company's production mix. Based on the Company's current production mix, the price received by Nuevo for its California oil production is expected to average approximately 72% of WTI. While the contract does not reduce the Company's exposure to price volatility, it does effectively eliminate the basis differential risk between the NYMEX price and the field price of the Company's California oil production, thereby facilitating Nuevo's ability to hedge its realized prices.
As a result of hedging transactions, oil and gas revenues were reduced by $117.7 million and $44.9 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively, and increased by $0.6 million in 1998. For 2001, the Company has entered into swap arrangements on 26,000 BOPD for the first quarter at an average WTI price of $19.52, for the second quarter on 25,000 BOPD at an average WTI price of $19.54, for the third quarter on 20,000 BOPD at an average WTI price of $21.22, and for the fourth quarter on 15,500 BOPD at an average WTI price of $22.95 per barrel. Subsequent to December 31, 2000, the Company entered into swaps on an additional 1,200 BOPD for the second quarter, bringing the total to 26,200 BOPD at an average price of $19.84 per barrel. On a physical volume basis, these hedges cover 47% of the Company's estimated 2001 oil production. At December 31, 2000, the market value of the swaps in place for 2001 was a loss of $35.1 million. For 2002, the Company has entered into swap arrangements on 12,500 BOPD for the first quarter at an average WTI price of $25.91 per barrel. For the remainder of 2002, the Company purchased put options with a WTI strike price of $22.00 per barrel, on 19,000 BOPD for the second quarter, and on 14,000 BOPD for both the third and fourth quarters. At December 31, 2000, the market value of the 2002 hedge positions is a gain of $8.3 million. See Item 7a. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk".
Risk Management Policy
The Board of Directors adopted a risk management policy, which was implemented by management and is periodically assessed by the Governance Committee of the Board. The Company's policy is designed to meet the following goals: (i) to assure the Company can generate sufficient operating cash flow to replace reserves that are produced and (ii) to assure compliance with restrictive debt covenants that would otherwise limit the Company's ability to incur additional debt. It is also the Company's policy that significant capital investments whose rates of return are sensitive to future oil and gas prices be protected from exposure to extreme price volatility.
The Company's risk management policy is based on the view that oil prices revert to a mean price over the long term. To the extent that future markets over a forward 18 month period are significantly higher than long term norms, the Company will hedge as much of its production as is necessary to meet its policy goals for that period. Variations from this policy require Board approval. The risk management policy states that hedging activity that is speculative or otherwise unrelated to the Company's normal business activities is considered inappropriate. The Company recognizes the risks inherent in price management. In order to minimize such risk, the Company has instituted a set of controls addressing approval authority, trading limits and other control procedures. All hedging activity is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, Internal Audit, which independently reports to the Audit Committee, reviews the Company's price management activity.
Competition/Markets for Production
The Company operates in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, exploitation, development and production. The availability of funds and information relating to a property, the standards established by the Company for the minimum projected return on investment, the availability of alternate fuel sources and the intermediate transportation of oil and gas are factors which affect the Company's ability to compete
NUEVO ENERGY COMPANY
in the marketplace. The Company's competitors include major integrated oil companies and a substantial number of independent energy companies, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than the Company.
The Company's heavy crude oil production in California requires special treatment available only from a limited number of refineries. Substantial damage to such a refinery or closures or reduction in capacity due to financial or other factors could adversely affect the market for the Company's heavy crude oil production.
Environmental and Other Regulation
The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution which might result from the Company's operations. Moreover, the recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and cleanup requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on the Company. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
The OPA imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the OPA, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
ITEM 3.