Item 2. Properties The net profits interests are the principal asset of the trust. The trustee cannot acquire any other assets, with the exception of certain short-term investments as specified under Item 1. The trustee may sell or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the net profits interests if approved by at least 80% of the unitholders, or upon termination of the trust. Otherwise, the trust may only sell up to 1% of the value of the net profits interests in any calendar year, pursuant to notice from XTO Energy of its desire to sell the related underlying properties. Any such sale must be for cash with the proceeds promptly distributed to the unitholders. The underlying properties are predominantly natural gas producing leases located in the states of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The principal productive areas are the Hugoton area, Anadarko Basin and Green River Basin.
All the underlying properties are currently owned by XTO Energy. XTO Energy may sell all or any portion of the underlying properties at any time, subject to and burdened by the net profits interests.
Hugoton Area Natural gas was discovered in the Hugoton area in 1922. With an estimated five million productive acres covering parts of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas, the Hugoton area is one of the largest domestic natural gas producing areas. During 2007, daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area averaged approximately 21,700 Mcf of gas and 51 Bbls of oil.
Most of the production from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area is from the Chase formation, at depths of 2,700 to 2,900 feet. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to develop other formations that underlie the 79,500 net acres held by production by the Chase formation wells, which range from 2,950 to 8,000 feet and include the Council Grove, Morrow, Chester and St. Louis formations. These formations are characterized by both oil and gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Since 2003, XTO Energy has drilled wells to these formations and plans to continue this development program in 2008.
Within this area, XTO Energy performed 41 workovers in 2007, of which 27 were Chase restimulations. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill up to seven wells and perform up to 25 workovers during 2008.
XTO Energy’s future development plans for the underlying properties in the Hugoton area include:
• additional compression to lower line pressures,
• installing artificial lift,
• opening new producing zones in existing wells,
• restimulating producing intervals in existing wells utilizing new technology,
• deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
• drilling additional wells.
XTO Energy delivers most of its Hugoton gas production to a gathering and processing system operated by a subsidiary. This system collects approximately 71% of its throughput from underlying properties, which, in recent months, has been approximately 16,500 Mcf per day from 252 wells. The gathering subsidiary purchases the gas from XTO Energy at the wellhead, gathers and transports the gas to its plant, and treats and processes the gas at the plant. The gathering subsidiary pays XTO Energy for wellhead volumes at a price of 80% to 85% of the net residue price received by XTO Energy’s marketing affiliate. This affiliate currently sells the residue to a pipeline at a price based on the monthly pipeline index less actual fees.
Other Hugoton gas production is sold under a third party contract. Under the contract, XTO Energy receives 74.5% of the net proceeds received from the sale of the residue gas and liquids.
Anadarko Basin Oil and gas accumulations were discovered in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma in 1945. XTO Energy is one of the largest producers in the Ringwood, Northwest Okeene and Cheyenne Valley fields of Major County, the Northeast Cedardale field of Woodward County and the Elk City field of Beckham County, the principal producing regions of the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin. Daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin averaged 33,700 Mcf of gas and 754 Bbls of oil in 2007.
The fields in the Major County area are characterized by oil and gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Productive zones range from 6,500 to 9,400 feet and include the Oswego, Red Fork, Inola, Chester, Manning, Mississippian, Hunton and Arbuckle formations. Within this area, XTO Energy drilled 12 gross (6.4 net) wells and performed 31 workovers in 2007. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill up to 12 wells and perform up to 23 workovers in Major County during 2008.
The fields within Woodward County are characterized primarily by gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Productive zones range from 6,000 to 7,500 feet and include the Cottage Grove, Oswego, Chester and Mississippian formations. Within this area, XTO Energy drilled 11 gross (9.2 net) wells and performed seven workovers in 2007. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill up to eight wells and perform up to eight workovers in Woodward County during 2008.
The Elk City field on the eastern edge of Beckham County produces oil and gas from a structural anticline with stratigraphic trapping features. Production zones range from 9,500 to 15,500 feet and include the Hoxbar, Atoka and Morrow formations. Within this area, XTO Energy drilled four gross (3.6 net) wells and performed eight workovers in 2007. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill two wells and perform four workovers within the Elk City field during 2008.
XTO Energy plans to further develop the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin primarily through:
• mechanical stimulation of existing wells,
• installing artificial lift,
• opening new producing zones in existing wells,
• deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
• drilling additional wells.
A gathering subsidiary of XTO Energy operates a 300-mile gathering system and pipeline in the Major County area. The gathering subsidiary and a third-party processor purchase natural gas produced at the wellhead from XTO Energy and other producers in the area under various agreements including life-of-production contracts. The gathering subsidiary gathers and transports the gas to a third-party processor, which processes the gas and pays XTO Energy and other producers for at least 50% of the liquids processed. After the gas is processed, the gathering subsidiary transports the gas via a residue pipeline to a connection with an interstate pipeline. The gathering subsidiary sells the residue gas to the marketing subsidiary of XTO Energy based upon a published index price. The gathering subsidiary pays this price to XTO Energy less a compression and gathering fee of approximately $0.31 per Mcf of residue gas. This gathering fee was previously approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission when the gathering subsidiary was regulated. During 2007, the
gathering system collected approximately 13,400 Mcf per day from 359 wells, approximately 55% of which XTO Energy operates. Estimated capacity of the gathering system is 28,000 Mcf per day. The gathering subsidiary also provides contract operating services to properties in Woodward County, collecting approximately 11,500 Mcf per day from 117 wells, for an average fee of approximately $0.10 per Mcf.
XTO Energy also sells gas directly to its marketing subsidiary, which then sells the gas to third parties. The price paid to XTO Energy is based upon the weighted average price of several published indices, but does not include a deduction for any marketing fees. The price paid by the marketing affiliate includes a deduction for any transportation fees charged by the third party.
Green River Basin The Green River Basin is located in southwestern Wyoming. Natural gas was discovered in the Fontenelle Field of the Green River Basin in the early 1970s. The producing reservoirs are the Frontier, Baxter and Dakota sandstones at depths ranging from 7,500 to 10,000 feet.
Daily 2007 sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Fontenelle Field averaged 21,600 Mcf of natural gas and 32 Bbls of oil. In 2007, XTO Energy completed six gross (6.0 net) wells and performed nine workovers. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it plans to drill up to six wells and perform up to eight workovers in the Green River Basin during 2008. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it is continuing its efforts to reduce pipeline pressure which has shown potential for increasing production and extending field life in the Fontenelle Field.
Potential development activities for the underlying properties in this area include:
• installing artificial lift,
• restimulating producing intervals utilizing new technology,
• additional compression to lower line pressures, and
• opening new producing zones in existing wells.
XTO Energy markets the gas produced from the Fontenelle Unit and nearby properties under three different marketing arrangements. Under the agreement covering approximately 70% of the gas sold, XTO Energy compresses the gas on the lease, transports it off the lease and compresses the gas again prior to entry into the gas plant pipeline. The pipeline transports the gas 35 miles to the gas plant, where the gas is processed, then redelivered to XTO Energy and sold to XTO Energy’s marketing subsidiary. The owner of the gas plant and related pipeline charges XTO Energy for operational fuel and processing. In 2007, the fuel charge was 1.45% of the volumes produced and the processing fee was approximately $0.10 per MMBtu. The marketing subsidiary then sells the residue gas to third parties based upon a spot sales price and pays the net sales proceeds to XTO Energy. The marketing subsidiary does not receive a marketing fee. Effective November 1, 2007, XTO Energy began transporting and selling this gas directly to the markets. The marketing subsidiary is no longer involved. The gas not sold under the above arrangement is sold either under a similar arrangement where the fee is $0.17 per MMBtu, or under a contract where XTO Energy directly sells the gas to a third party on the lease at an adjusted index price. Condensate is sold at the lease to an independent third party at market rates.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts For the following data, “gross” refers to the total wells or acres on the underlying properties in which XTO Energy owns a working interest and “net” refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by XTO Energy. Although many of XTO Energy’s wells produce both oil and gas, a well is categorized as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of oil to natural gas production. Operated wells are operated by XTO Energy and nonoperated wells are operated by other operators.
The underlying properties are interests in developed properties located primarily in gas producing regions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The following is a summary of the approximate producing acreage of the underlying properties at December 31, 2007. Undeveloped acreage is not significant.
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the underlying properties as of December 31, 2007:
The following is a summary of the number of wells drilled on the underlying properties during the years indicated. Unless otherwise indicated, all wells drilled are developmental. There were 10 gross (5.9 net) wells in process of drilling at December 31, 2007.
(a) Included in totals are 17 gross (4.3 net) wells in 2007, 17 gross (4.3 net) wells in 2006 and 10 gross (2.4 net) wells in 2005, drilled on nonoperated interests.
Oil and Natural Gas Production Trust production is recognized in the period net profits income is received, which is the month following receipt by XTO Energy, and generally two months after the time of production. Oil and gas production and average sales prices attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interests for the three years ended December 31, 2007 were as follows:
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves General Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers, has estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties as of December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The estimated reserves for the underlying properties are then used by XTO Energy to calculate the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the net profits interests. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of these reserves may be substantially different from the original estimates.
Reserve quantities and revenues for the net profits interests were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined interests of the trust and XTO Energy in the subject properties. Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserve quantities. Accordingly, reserves allocated to the trust pertaining to its 80% net profits interests in the properties have effectively been reduced to reflect recovery of the trust’s 80% portion of applicable production and development costs. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes in such discounted cash flows as presented below are prepared using assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These assumptions include the use of year-end prices for oil and gas and year-end costs for estimated future development and production expenditures to produce the proved reserves. Because natural gas prices are influenced by seasonal demand, use of year-end prices, as required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, may not be the most representative in estimating future revenues or reserve data. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%. No provision is included for federal income taxes since future net cash flows are not subject to taxation at the trust level.
Estimated costs to plug and abandon wells on the underlying properties at the end of their productive lives have not been deducted from cash flows since this is not a legal obligation of the trust. These costs are
the legal obligation of XTO Energy as the owner of the underlying working interests and will only be deducted from net proceeds payable to the trust if net proceeds from the related conveyance exceed such costs when paid, subject to excess cost carryforward provisions as described under Item 1.
Year-end weighted average realized gas prices used to determine the standardized measure were $6.72 per Mcf in 2007, $5.60 per Mcf in 2006, $8.72 per Mcf in 2005 and $5.68 per Mcf in 2004. Year-end oil prices used to determine the standardized measure were based on a West Texas Intermediate crude oil posted price of $92.70 per Bbl in 2007, $57.75 per Bbl in 2006, $57.75 per Bbl in 2005 and $40.25 per Bbl in 2004.
Proved Reserves
Extensions, additions and discoveries in 2005, 2006 and 2007 are primarily related to delineation of additional proved undeveloped reserves in the Anadarko Basin. Revisions of prior estimates of the proved gas reserves for the underlying properties in each year are primarily because of changes in the year-end gas and oil prices. Higher upward and downward revisions for the net profits interests as compared with the underlying properties in each year were caused by changes in year-end oil and gas prices and estimated future production and development costs which resulted in an increase or decrease in gas reserves allocated to the trust.
Proved Developed Reserves
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows from Proved Reserves
Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows from Proved Reserves
Regulation Natural Gas Regulation The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including transportation rates charged, storage tariffs and various other matters, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas terminated on January 1, 1993. On August 8, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, among other things, amended the Natural Gas Act to prohibit market manipulation by any entity, to direct FERC to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce, and to significantly increase the penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or FERC rules, regulations or orders thereunder. FERC has promulgated new regulations to implement the Energy Policy Act. While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties.
On December 19, 2007, the President signed into law the Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007 (PL 110-140). The EISA, among other things, prohibits market manipulation by any person in connection with the purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline or petroleum distillates at wholesale in contravention of such rules and regulations that the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe, directs the Federal Trade Commission to enforce the regulations, and establishes penalties for violations thereunder. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it cannot predict the impact of future government regulation on any natural gas facilities.
Environmental Regulation Companies that are engaged in the oil and gas industry are affected by federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Those laws may impact operations of the underlying properties. No material expenses have been incurred on the underlying properties in complying with environmental laws and regulations. XTO Energy does not expect that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on the trust.
State Regulation The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
State Tax Withholding Several states have enacted legislation to require state income tax withholding from nonresident recipients of oil and gas proceeds. After consultation with its state tax counsel, XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it believes the trust is not subject to these withholding requirements. However, regulations are subject to change by the various states, which could change this conclusion. Should the trust be required to withhold state taxes, distributions to the unitholders would be reduced by the required amount, subject to the unitholder’s right to file a state tax return to claim any refund due.
Other Regulation The Minerals Management Service of the United States Department of the Interior amended the crude oil valuation regulations in July 2004 and the natural gas valuation regulations in June 2005 for oil and natural gas produced from federal oil and natural gas leases. The principal effect of the oil regulations pertains to which published market prices are most appropriate to value crude oil not sold in an arm’s-length transaction and what transportation deductions should be allowed. The principal effect of the natural gas valuation regulations pertains to the calculation of transportation deductions and changes necessitated by judicial decisions since the regulations were last amended. Seven percent of the net acres of the underlying properties, primarily located in Wyoming, involve federal leases. Neither of these changes have had a significant effect on trust distributions.
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and laws relating to environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it does not believe that compliance with these laws will have any material adverse effect upon the unitholders.
Pricing and Sales Information A subsidiary of XTO Energy purchases most of XTO Energy’s natural gas production based on a monthly published index price or at a weighted average of several monthly published index prices, then sells the gas to third parties for the best available price. The monthly published index price is the price established during the last five business days of the month preceding the month of delivery for the specific delivery location, which is based on the average of all fixed price transactions that occur at a specific delivery location. The fixed price is determined by the NYMEX price less the location differential during this period. Any marketing gains or losses are not included in trust net proceeds. Oil production is generally marketed at the wellhead to third parties at the best available price. XTO Energy arranges for some of its natural gas to be processed by unaffiliated third parties and markets the natural gas liquids. The natural gas attributable to the underlying properties is marketed under contracts existing at trust inception. Contracts covering production from the Ringwood area of the Major County area are generally for the life of the lease, and the contract for the majority of production from the Hugoton area was extended through 2008. If new contracts are entered with unaffiliated third parties, the proceeds from sales under those new contracts will be included in gross proceeds from the underlying properties. If new contracts are entered with XTO Energy’s marketing subsidiary, it may charge XTO Energy a fee that may not exceed 2% of the sales price of the oil and natural gas received from unaffiliated parties. The sales price is net of any deductions for transportation from the wellhead to the unaffiliated parties and any gravity or quality adjustments.
Item 3.