Item 2. Properties
The net profits interests are the principal asset of the trust. The trustee cannot acquire any other assets, with the exception of certain short-term investments as specified under Item 1. The trustee may sell or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the net profits interests if approved by at least 80% of the unitholders, or upon termination of the trust. Otherwise, the trust may only sell up to 1% of the value of the net profits interests in any calendar year, pursuant to notice from XTO Energy of its desire to sell the related underlying properties. Any such sale must be for cash with the proceeds promptly distributed to the unitholders. The underlying properties are predominantly natural gas producing leases located in the states of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The principal productive areas are the Hugoton area, Anadarko Basin and Green River Basin.
Hugoton Area
Natural gas was discovered in the Hugoton area in 1922. With an estimated five million productive acres covering parts of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas, the Hugoton area is the largest natural gas producing area in North America. More than 64 trillion cubic feet of natural gas have been produced from the Hugoton area. During 2001, sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area averaged approximately 30,800 Mcf of gas per day and 72 Bbls of oil per day.
Most of the production from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area is from the Chase formation, at depths of 2,700 to 2,900 feet. Although increased density drilling was ultimately not approved by the Oklahoma legislature, regulations were amended in July 1998 to increase allowable production in the Oklahoma panhandle from 150,000 Mcf per day to 450,000 Mcf per day which lifted curtailment in this area. XTO Energy also plans to develop other formations that underlie the 79,500 net acres held by production by the Chase formation wells, including the Council Grove between 2,950 and 3,400 feet, the Morrow between 6,000 and 6,300 feet, the Chester between 6,350 and 6,700 feet and the St. Louis between 7,500 and 8,000 feet. XTO Energy has participated in 3-D seismic shoots covering 30,000 acres of XTO Energy's net acreage position beneath the Chase formation. Test wells were drilled to delineate the Council Grove formation in 1999, 2000 and 2001.
During 2001, development of the Hugoton area included successful recompletions to the Towanda Formation. XTO Energy also embarked on a pilot project to test new restimulation techniques in the Chase intervals. XTO Energy completed 27 of these restimulations in 2001. During 2002, XTO Energy plans to perform seven Towanda completions and 46 Chase restimulations.
XTO Energy's future development plans for the underlying properties in the Hugoton area include:
•additional compression to lower line pressures,
•pumping unit installations,
•opening new producing zones of existing wells,
•drilling additional wells, and
•drilling deeper in existing wells to new producing zones.
XTO Energy delivers most of its Hugoton gas production to a gathering and processing system operated by a subsidiary. This system collects approximately 75% of its throughput from underlying properties, which, in recent months, has been approximately 24,000 Mcf per day from 270 wells. The gathering subsidiary purchases the gas from XTO Energy at the wellhead, gathers and transports the gas to its plant, and treats and processes the gas at the plant. The gathering subsidiary pays XTO Energy for wellhead volumes at a price of 80% to 85% of the residue price received upon sale to XTO Energy's marketing affiliate. Under long-term contracts, the gathering subsidiary sells residue volumes to XTO Energy's marketing affiliate at a price equal to the average price of several published indices and is reduced by any pipeline access fees incurred by the marketing affiliate, but is not reduced by any marketing fees. Pipeline access fees currently are approximately $0.02 per Mcf.
Other Hugoton gas production is delivered under a third party contract. Under the contract, XTO Energy receives 74.5% of the net proceeds received from the sale of the residue gas and liquids.
Anadarko Basin
Oil and gas were discovered in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma in 1945. Daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin averaged 44,500 Mcf and 946 Bbls in 2001. XTO Energy is one of the largest producers in the Ringwood, Northwest Okeene and Cheyenne Valley fields in Major County, the principal producing region of the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin.
The fields in the Major County area are characterized by oil and gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Productive zones range from 6,500 to 9,400 feet and include the Oswego, Red Fork, Inola, Chester, Manning, Mississippian, Hunton and Arbuckle formations.
In Major and Woodward counties, the Mississippian (Osage), Chester and Red Fork formations were the primary drilling targets in 2001. In Major County, XTO Energy successfully drilled and completed 13 gross (10.5 net) wells. XTO Energy plans to drill up to six wells and perform up to 19 workovers in Major County during the next year. In Woodward County, the Chester Formation with its four separate producing intervals, was the primary target for 16 gross (13.5 net) wells successfully drilled and completed during 2001. During 2002, XTO Energy plans to drill up to 12 gross (8.3 net) wells and perform up to six workovers in Woodward County.
XTO Energy plans to further develop the underlying properties in the Major County area primarily through:
•mechanical stimulation of existing wells,
•opening new producing zones in existing wells,
•deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
•drilling additional wells.
A gathering subsidiary of XTO Energy operates a 300-mile gathering system and pipeline in the Major County area. The gathering subsidiary and a third-party processor purchase natural gas produced at the wellhead from XTO Energy and other producers in the area under life-of-production contracts. The gathering subsidiary gathers and transports the gas to a third-party processor, which processes the gas and pays XTO Energy and other producers for at least 50% of the liquids processed. After the gas is processed, the gathering subsidiary transports the gas via a 26-mile pipeline to a connection with other pipelines. The gathering subsidiary sells the residue gas to the marketing subsidiary of XTO Energy based upon the average price of several published indices. The gathering subsidiary pays this price to XTO Energy less a compression and gathering fee of $0.315 per Mcf of residue gas. This gathering fee was previously approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission when the gathering subsidiary was regulated. During 2001, the gathering system collected approximately 21,000 Mcf per day from over 400 wells, 70% of which XTO Energy operates. Estimated capacity of the gathering system is 40,000 Mcf per day. The gathering subsidiary also provides contract operating services to properties in Woodward County, collecting approximately 256,000 Mcf per month from 48 wells, for a historical average fee of approximately $0.125 per Mcf.
XTO Energy also sells gas to its marketing subsidiary, which then sells the gas to third parties. The price paid to XTO Energy is based upon the average price of several published indices, but does not include a deduction for any marketing fees. The price paid by the marketing affiliate includes a deduction for any transportation fees charged by the third party.
Green River Basin
The Green River Basin is located in southwestern Wyoming. Natural gas was discovered in the Fontenelle field of the Green River Basin in the early 1970s. The producing reservoirs are the Cretaceous-aged Frontier, Baxter and Dakota sandstones at depths ranging from 7,500 to 10,000 feet. In 2001, daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Fontenelle field averaged 24,900 Mcf of natural gas and 60 Bbls of oil.
During 1997, XTO Energy installed additional pipeline compression to lower overall field operating pressures and improve overall field performance. XTO Energy also completed an interconnect to another pipeline in the southeastern part of the Fontenelle field that added an additional market for gas.
XTO Energy drilled six gross (6.0 net) wells in the Fontenelle Unit in 2001, all of which were successfully completed. Drilling focused on continued 80-acre and 40-acre infill development of the Frontier sandstones. XTO Energy plans to perform up to six workovers in the Green River Basin during 2002.
Potential development activities for the underlying properties in this area include:
•additional compression to lower line pressures,
•opening new producing zones of existing wells,
•deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
•drilling additional wells.
XTO Energy markets the gas produced from the Fontenelle Unit and nearby properties under three different marketing arrangements. Under the agreement covering 70% of the gas sold, XTO Energy compresses the gas on the lease, transports it off the lease and compresses the gas again prior to entry into the gas plant pipeline. The pipeline transports the gas 35 miles to the gas plant, where the gas is processed, then redelivered to XTO Energy and sold to XTO Energy's marketing subsidiary. The owner of the gas plant and related pipeline charges XTO Energy for operational fuel and processing. In 2001, the fuel charge was 0.02% of the volumes produced and the processing fee was $0.051 per MMBtu. The marketing subsidiary then sells the residue gas to third parties based upon a spot sales price and pays the net sales proceeds to XTO Energy. The marketing subsidiary does not receive a marketing fee. The gas not sold
under the above arrangement is sold either under a similar arrangement where the fee is $0.148 per MMBtu, or under a contract where XTO Energy directly sells the gas to a third party on the lease at an adjusted index price. Condensate is sold at the lease to an independent third party at market rates.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts
For the following data, "gross" refers to the total wells or acres on the underlying properties in which XTO Energy owns a working interest and "net" refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by XTO Energy. Although many of XTO Energy's wells produce both oil and gas, a well is categorized as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of oil to natural gas production.
The underlying properties are interests in developed properties located primarily in gas producing regions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The following is a summary of the approximate producing acreage of the underlying properties at December 31, 2001. Undeveloped acreage is not significant.
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the underlying properties as of December 31, 2001:
The following is a summary of the number of wells drilled on the underlying properties during the years indicated. Unless otherwise indicated, all wells drilled are developmental. There were no wells in process of drilling at December 31, 2001.
(a)Included in completed gas wells are 6 gross (1.3 net) wells drilled on nonoperated interests in 2001, ten gross (1.7 net) wells in 2000 and 7 gross (1.1 net) wells in 1999.
(b)Completed oil wells were drilled on nonoperated interests. Oil and Gas Production
Trust production is recognized in the period net profits income is received, which is the month following receipt by XTO Energy, and generally two months after the time of production. Because of this two-month interval, the trust's initial accounting year ended December 31, 1999 includes net profits income related to eleven months of oil and gas sales, or December 1998 (the trust's initial month) through
October 1999 production. Oil and gas production and average sales prices attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interests for the three years ended December 31, 2001 were as follows:
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
General
Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers, has estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties and net profits interests as of December 31, 2001, 2000, 1999 and 1998. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of these reserves may be substantially different from the original estimates.
Reserve quantities and revenues for the net profits interests were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined interests of the trust and XTO Energy in the subject properties. Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserve quantities. Accordingly, reserves allocated to the trust pertaining to its 80% net profits interests in the properties have effectively been reduced to reflect recovery of the trust's 80% portion of applicable production and development costs, excluding overhead. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes in such discounted cash flows as presented below are prepared using assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These assumptions include the use of year-end prices for oil and gas and year-end costs for estimated future development and production expenditures to produce the proved reserves. Because natural gas prices are influenced by seasonal demand, use of year-end prices, as required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, may not be the most representative in estimating future revenues or reserve data. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%. No provision is included for federal income taxes since future net revenues are not subject to taxation at the trust level.
Year-end weighted average realized gas prices used to determine the standardized measure were $2.34 per Mcf in 2001, $9.44 per Mcf in 2000, $2.23 per Mcf in 1999 and $2.01 per Mcf in 1998. Year-end oil prices used to determine the standardized measure were based on a West Texas Intermediate crude oil posted price of $16.75 per Bbl in 2001, $23.75 per Bbl in 2000, $22.75 per Bbl in 1999 and $9.50 per Bbl in 1998.
Proved Reserves
Extensions, discoveries and additions in 1999, 2000 and 2001 are primarily related to delineation of additional proved undeveloped reserves in the Anadarko Basin. Downward revisions of prior estimates of the proved reserves for the underlying properties during 2001 are because of lower prices. Upward revisions of prior estimates of the proved reserves for the underlying properties during 2000 were because of lower than estimated production decline. Upward revisions of prior estimates of proved gas reserves of the net profits interests as compared with downward revisions of the underlying properties in 1999, and higher upward and downward revisions for the net profits interests as compared with the underlying properties in 2000 and 2001, were caused by year-end gas price fluctuations which resulted in increased gas reserves allocated to or from the trust.
Proved Developed Reserves
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows from Proved Reserves
Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows from Proved Reserves
(a)Significant revisions in 2001 and 2000 were caused by the changes in year-end gas prices.
Regulation
Natural Gas Regulation
The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including transportation rates charged, storage tariffs and various other matters, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas terminated on January 1, 1993. While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties.
Environmental Regulation
Companies that are engaged in the oil and gas industry are affected by federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Those laws may impact operations of the underlying properties. No material expenses have been incurred on the underlying properties in complying with environmental laws and regulations. XTO Energy does not expect that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on the trust.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Other Regulation
The Minerals Management Service of the United States Department of the Interior is evaluating existing methods of settling royalties on federal and Native American oil and gas leases. Seven percent of the net acres of the underlying properties, primarily located in Wyoming, involve federal leases. Although the final rules could cause an increase in the federal royalties to be paid on these properties, and, correspondingly, decrease the revenue to XTO Energy and the trust, XTO Energy's management does not believe that the proposed rule changes will have a significant detrimental effect on trust distributions.
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and laws relating to environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it does not believe that compliance with these laws will have any material adverse effect upon the unitholders.
Tight Sands Tax Credit
The trust receives net profits income from tight sands wells, certain production from which qualifies for the federal income tax credit for producing nonconventional fuels under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Section 29 tax credit is available for tight sands gas produced and sold through 2002 from wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993 and after November 5, 1990, or after December 31, 1979 if the related formation was dedicated to interstate commerce as of April 20, 1977. This tax credit is approximately $0.52 per MMBtu. Such credit, calculated based on the unitholder's pro rata share of qualifying production, may not reduce the unitholder's regular tax liability (after the foreign tax credit and certain other nonrefundable credits) below his tentative minimum tax. Any part of the Section 29 credit not allowed for the tax year solely because of this limitation is subject to certain carryover provisions.
Congress is considering an extension of existing energy tax credits beyond the scheduled December 31, 2002 expiration date, as well as the creation of similar new tax credits. During 2001, the U.S. House passed a bill that would extend existing Section 29 tax credits on certain production, while the U.S. Senate is considering a separate bill to address energy tax credits, including Section 29. The potential effect of any final legislation on unitholders is unknown.
Pricing and Sales Information
A subsidiary of XTO Energy purchases most of XTO Energy's natural gas production at the monthly published index price, then sells the gas to third parties for the best available price. Any marketing gains or losses are not included in trust net proceeds. Oil production is generally marketed at the wellhead to third parties at the best available price. XTO Energy arranges for some of its natural gas to be processed by unaffiliated third parties and markets the natural gas liquids. The natural gas attributable to the underlying properties is marketed under contracts existing at trust inception. Contracts covering production from the Ringwood area of Major County are generally for the life of the lease, and the contract for the majority of production from the Hugoton area expires in 2004. If new contracts are entered with unaffiliated third parties, the proceeds from sales under those new contracts will be included in gross proceeds from the underlying properties. If new contracts are entered with XTO Energy's marketing subsidiary, it may charge XTO Energy a fee that may not exceed 2% of the sales price of the oil and natural gas received from unaffiliated parties. The sales price is net of any deductions for transportation from the wellhead to the unaffiliated parties and any gravity or quality adjustments.
Item 3.