Item 2. Properties
The net profits interests are the principal asset of the trust. The trustee cannot acquire any other assets, with the exception of certain short-term investments as specified under Item 1, Business. The trustee may sell or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the net profits interests if approved by at least 80% of the unitholders, or upon termination of the trust. Otherwise, the trust may only sell up to 1% of the value of the net profits interests in any calendar year, pursuant to notice from XTO Energy of its desire to sell the related underlying properties. Any such sale must be for cash with the proceeds promptly distributed to the unitholders. All the underlying properties are currently owned by XTO Energy. XTO Energy may sell all or any portion of the underlying properties at any time, subject to and burdened by the net profits interests.
The underlying properties are predominantly gas-producing properties with established production histories in the Hugoton area of Oklahoma and Kansas, the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Green River Basin of Wyoming. The average reserve-to-production index for the underlying properties as of December 31, 2011 is approximately 14 years. This index is calculated using total proved reserves and estimated 2012 production for the underlying properties. The projected 2012 production is from proved developed producing reserves as of December 31, 2011. Based on estimated future net cash flows at 12-month average oil and gas prices, based on the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period, the proved reserves of the underlying properties are approximately 84% natural gas and 16% oil. XTO Energy operates approximately 95% of the underlying properties.
Because the underlying properties are working interests, production expense, development costs and overhead are deducted in calculating net profits income. As a result, net profits income is affected by the level of maintenance and development activity on the underlying properties. See Trustee’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Item 7. Total 2011 development costs deducted for the underlying properties were $9 million, an increase of 21% from the prior year. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that total 2012 budgeted development costs for the underlying properties are between $8 million and $9 million.
Significant Properties
Hugoton Area
Natural gas was discovered in the Hugoton area in 1922. With an estimated five million productive acres covering parts of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas, the Hugoton area is one of the largest domestic natural gas producing areas. During 2011, daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area averaged approximately 16,900 Mcf of gas and 81 Bbls of oil.
Most of the production from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area is from the Chase formation. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it has begun to develop other formations that underlie the 79,500 net acres held by production by the Chase formation wells, which include the Council Grove, Morrow, Chester and St. Louis formations. These formations are characterized by both oil and gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Since 2003, XTO Energy has drilled wells to these formations and plans to continue this development program in 2012.
Within this area, XTO Energy did not drill any wells but did perform 5 workovers in 2011. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill up to 2 new wells and perform up to 20 workovers during 2012.
XTO Energy’s future development plans for the underlying properties in the Hugoton area include:
•
additional compression to lower line pressures,
•
installing artificial lift,
•
opening new producing zones in existing wells,
•
restimulating producing intervals in existing wells utilizing new technology,
•
deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
•
drilling additional wells.
XTO Energy delivers most of its Hugoton gas production to a gathering and processing system owned by a subsidiary. Most of the gas is sold under the terms of a contract that was entered into in March 1996, predating the existence of the trust. This system collects the majority of its throughput from underlying properties, which, in recent months, has been approximately 11,500 Mcf per day. The gathering subsidiary purchases the gas from XTO Energy at the wellhead, gathers and transports the gas to its plant, and treats and processes the gas at the plant. The gathering subsidiary has agreed to use its best efforts to purchase all gas produced by XTO Energy from the wells that are subject to the contract, but the gathering subsidiary is not obligated to purchase gas in excess of its market requirements. The gathering subsidiary has been taking all of the gas produced for over ten years. The gathering subsidiary pays XTO Energy for wellhead volumes at a price of 80% to 85% of the net residue price received by XTO Energy’s marketing affiliate, which amount is adjusted for the BTU content of the gas. This affiliate currently sells the residue to a pipeline at a price based on a monthly pipeline index less actual third party fees. The term of these contracts can vary by contract, but in general the contracts, after an initial stated period, renew on a monthly basis unless either party gives notice of termination. If either party to the contracts fails to perform under the contract, the contract may be terminated if written notice is given of the breach and the breaching party fails to cure the breach within a specified period. The March 1996 contract has an annual price renegotiation term under which either party can request that the price provided under the contract be renegotiated. Neither party has requested that the price be renegotiated. XTO Energy does not anticipate that the terms of the contracts will be renegotiated.
Other Hugoton gas production is sold under a third party contract that remains in effect for the life of the lease. Under the contract, XTO Energy receives 74.5% of the net proceeds received by the buyer from the sale of the residue gas and liquids produced from certain underlying properties. The residue gas net proceeds are based upon the weighted average price of the gas sold by the buyer at its facilities, and the liquids net proceeds are based upon an average daily index sales price, less transportation, processing and storage fees incurred by the buyer. The buyer agrees to use its best efforts to take all of the gas produced, subject to its market requirements. The buyer has been taking all of the gas produced for over ten years.
Anadarko Basin
Oil and gas accumulations were discovered in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma in 1945. XTO Energy is one of the largest producers in the Ringwood, Northwest Okeene and Cheyenne Valley fields of Major County, the Northeast Cedardale field of Woodward County and the Elk City field of Beckham County, the principal producing regions of the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin. Daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin averaged 26,500 Mcf of gas and 568 Bbls of oil in 2011.
The fields in the Major County area are characterized by oil and gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Productive zones include the Oswego, Red Fork, Inola, Chester, Manning, Mississippian, Hunton and Arbuckle formations. Within this area, XTO Energy drilled 1 gross (1.0 net) well and performed 35 workovers in 2011. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill 1 new well and perform up to 14 workovers in Major County during 2012.
The fields within Woodward County are characterized primarily by gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Productive zones include the Cottage Grove, Oswego, Chester and Mississippian formations. Within this area, XTO Energy did not drill any wells or perform any workovers in 2011. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it does not plan to drill any new wells but may perform up to 4 workovers in Woodward County during 2012.
The Elk City field on the eastern edge of Beckham County produces oil and gas from a structural anticline with stratigraphic trapping features. Production zones include the Hoxbar, Atoka and Morrow formations. Within this area, XTO Energy did not drill any wells but did perform 9 workovers in 2011. XTO Energy has informed the trustee that it plans to drill 1 new well and perform up to 6 workovers within the Elk City field during 2012.
XTO Energy plans to further develop the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin primarily through:
•
mechanical stimulation of existing wells,
•
installing artificial lift,
•
opening new producing zones in existing wells,
•
deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
•
drilling additional wells.
A gathering subsidiary of XTO Energy operates a 300-mile gathering system and pipeline in the Major County area. The gathering subsidiary and a third-party processor purchase natural gas produced at the wellhead from XTO Energy and other producers in the area under various agreements, most of which were entered into in the 1960’s and 1970’s, and which include life-of-production terms such that the contracts will continue until there is no further production from the underlying properties, unless the production declines so that it is no longer economical to take the gas. The gathering subsidiary and the third-party processor are required to take certain minimum volumes of the gas produced but have been taking all of the volumes produced for over ten years. The gathering subsidiary gathers and transports the gas to a third-party processor, which processes the gas and pays XTO Energy and other producers for at least 50% of the liquids processed based upon a weighted average sales price less transportation charges, which price may vary in the event of inadequate markets. After the gas is processed, the gathering subsidiary transports the gas via a residue pipeline to a connection with an interstate pipeline. The gathering subsidiary sells the residue gas to the marketing subsidiary of XTO Energy based upon a weighted average price, which price will vary monthly based upon market conditions. The gathering subsidiary pays this price to XTO Energy less a compression and gathering fee of approximately $0.31 per Mcf of residue gas. This gathering fee was previously approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission when the gathering subsidiary was regulated and is unlikely to change. During 2011, the gathering system collected approximately 10,500 Mcf per day, approximately 50% of which XTO Energy operates. Estimated capacity of the gathering system is 24,000 Mcf per day. The gathering subsidiary also provides contract operating services to properties in Woodward County, collecting approximately 9,500 Mcf per day, for an average fee of approximately $0.05 per Mcf. The fee is subject to an annual price renegotiation under which either party can request that the price provided under the contract be renegotiated. The contract continues on a yearly basis, and it is subject to termination upon written notice prior to its annual renewal or in the event the parties fail to agree upon a pricing renegotiation. XTO Energy also sells gas directly to its marketing subsidiary under a month-to-month contract, which then sells the gas to third parties. The price paid to XTO Energy is based upon the weighted average price of several published indices, which price varies upon market conditions but does not include a deduction for any marketing fees. The price paid by the marketing affiliate includes a deduction for any transportation fees charged by the third party. Neither party has a firm obligation to sell or purchase any specific minimum quantity of gas.
Green River Basin
The Green River Basin is located in southwestern Wyoming. Natural gas was discovered in the Fontenelle field of the Green River Basin in the early 1970’s. The producing reservoirs are the Frontier, Baxter and Dakota sandstones.
Daily 2011 sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Fontenelle field averaged 16,000 Mcf of natural gas and 32 Bbls of oil. In 2011, XTO Energy did not drill any wells but did perform 1 workover. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it does not plan to drill any new wells but may perform up to 4 workovers in the Green River Basin during 2012. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it is continuing its efforts to reduce pipeline pressure which has shown potential for increasing production and extending field life in the Fontenelle Field.
Potential development activities for the underlying properties in this area include:
•
installing artificial lift,
•
restimulating producing intervals utilizing new technology,
•
additional compression to lower line pressures, and
•
opening new producing zones in existing wells.
XTO Energy markets the gas produced from the Fontenelle field and nearby properties under various marketing arrangements. Under the agreement covering the majority of the gas sold, XTO Energy compresses the gas on the lease, transports it off the lease and compresses the gas again prior to entry into the gas plant pipeline. The pipeline transports the gas to the gas plant, where the gas is processed, then redelivered to XTO Energy. The owner of the gas plant and related pipeline charges XTO Energy for operational fuel and processing and has agreed to accept certain volumes, which amounts can be adjusted by the owner. The owner may be able to cease taking volumes if it has valid unaddressed concerns regarding the creditworthiness of XTO Energy. In 2011, the fuel charge was 2.00% of the volumes produced and the processing fee was approximately $0.11 per MMBtu. These charges are adjusted annually based upon a published governmental economic index, and the contract renews on a year-to-year basis. XTO Energy transports and sells this gas directly to the markets based on a spot sales price on a month-to-month term, and the volumes to be sold are generally determined upon a monthly basis. These contracts may be terminated by either party if there are credit issues with the other party. The gas not sold under the above arrangement may be gathered and sold under a similar arrangement on a month-to-month term where the fee is approximately $0.18 per MMBtu and is adjusted annually. The amount of gas that the gatherer is required to gather is limited to certain maximum volumes, and the gatherer may be able to cease taking volumes if it has valid unaddressed concerns regarding the creditworthiness of XTO Energy. Alternatively, the gas may be sold under a contract where XTO Energy directly sells the gas to a third party on the lease at an adjusted index price, which price varies upon market conditions. The contract continues on a month-to-month basis, and the buyer is obligated to make a good faith effort to purchase a minimum 90% of the gas nominated by buyer for purchase. Condensate is sold to an independent third party at market rates on a month-to-month basis. The purchaser accepts all condensate delivered at the lease, but either party may suspend performance of the contract if there are credit issues with the other party.
Producing Acreage, Drilling and Well Counts
For the following data, “gross” refers to the total wells or acres on the underlying properties in which XTO Energy owns a working interest and “net” refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by XTO Energy. Although many of XTO Energy’s wells produce both oil and gas, a well is categorized as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of oil to natural gas production. Operated wells are managed by XTO Energy, while nonoperated wells are managed by others.
The underlying properties are interests in developed properties located primarily in gas producing regions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The following is a summary of the approximate producing acreage of the underlying properties at December 31, 2011. Undeveloped acreage is not significant.
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the underlying properties as of December 31, 2011:
The following is a summary of the number of wells drilled on the underlying properties during the years indicated. During 2011, 1 exploratory dry hole (0.0 net) was drilled on the underlying properties. No exploratory wells were drilled on the underlying properties in 2010 or 2009; all other wells drilled were developmental. There was 1 gross (0.6 net) well in process of drilling at December 31, 2011.
(a) Included in totals are 3 gross (0.5 net) wells in 2011, zero wells in 2010 and 5 gross (1.2 net) wells in 2009, drilled on nonoperated interests.
Estimated Proved Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
The following are proved reserves of the underlying properties, as estimated by independent engineers, and proved reserves and future net cash flows from proved reserves of the net profits interests, based on an allocation of these reserves, at December 31, 2011:
(a) Based on 12-month average oil price of $92.92 per Bbl and $4.67 per Mcf for gas, based on the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period. Discounted estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves decreased 1% from year-end 2010 to 2011, primarily because of 2011 production, partially offset by a 5% increase in natural gas prices and a 22% increase in oil prices.
(b) Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserves. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
(c) Before income taxes since future net cash flows are not subject to taxation at the trust level. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%.
Proved reserves consist of the following:
Approximately 87% of the underlying proved reserves are proved developed reserves.
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and is performed by XTO Energy. As a result, XTO Energy has developed internal policies and controls for estimating and recording reserves. XTO Energy’s policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. XTO Energy’s policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to its reserve engineering group and require that reserve estimates be made by qualified reserves estimators, as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. All qualified reserves estimators are required to receive education covering the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.
The XTO Energy reserve engineering group reviews reserve estimates with our third-party petroleum consultants, Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers. Miller and Lents, Ltd. estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties as of December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Miller and Lents’ primary technical person responsible for calculating the trust’s reserves has more than 30 years of experience as a reserve engineer. The estimated reserves for the underlying properties are then used by XTO Energy to calculate the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the net profits interests. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of these reserves may be substantially different from the original estimates.
Reserve quantities and revenues for the net profits interests were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined interests of the trust and XTO Energy in the subject properties. Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserve quantities. Accordingly, reserves allocated to the trust pertaining to its 80% net profits interests in the properties have effectively been reduced to reflect recovery of the trust’s 80% portion of applicable production and development costs. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
Trust production is recognized in the period net profits income is received, which is the month following receipt by XTO Energy, and generally two months after the time of production. Oil and gas production and average sales prices attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interests for each of the three years ended December 31 were as follows:
Oil and gas production by conveyance attributable to the underlying properties for each of the three years ended December 31 were as follows:
Pricing and Sales Information
A subsidiary of XTO Energy purchases most of XTO Energy’s natural gas production based on a weighted average sales price, then sells the gas to third parties for the best available price. Oil production is generally marketed at the wellhead to third parties at the best available price. XTO Energy arranges for some of its natural gas to be processed by unaffiliated third parties and markets the natural gas liquids. Most of the natural gas attributable to the underlying properties is marketed under contracts existing at trust inception. Contracts covering production from the Ringwood area of the Major County area are generally for the life of the lease, and the contract for the majority of production from the Hugoton area was extended through 2012. If new contracts are entered with unaffiliated third parties, the proceeds from sales under those new contracts will be included in gross proceeds from the underlying properties. If new contracts are entered with XTO Energy’s marketing subsidiary, it may charge XTO Energy a fee that may not exceed 2% of the sales price of the oil and natural gas received from unaffiliated parties. The sales price is net of any deductions for transportation from the wellhead to the unaffiliated parties and any gravity or quality adjustments. For further information on these arrangements see Significant Properties above.
Regulation
Natural Gas Regulation
The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including transportation and storage rates charged, tariffs, and various other matters, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas terminated on January 1, 1993. While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. On August 8, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, among other things, amended the Natural Gas Act to prohibit market manipulation by any entity, to direct FERC to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce, and to significantly increase the penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or FERC rules, regulations or orders thereunder. FERC has promulgated regulations to implement the Energy Policy Act, including enforcement rules and new annual reporting requirements for certain sellers of natural gas. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties.
Federal Regulation of Oil
Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The net price received from the sale of these products is affected by market transportation costs. Under rules adopted by FERC effective January 1995, interstate oil pipelines can change rates based on an inflation index, though other rate mechanisms may be used in specific circumstances.
On December 19, 2007, the President signed into law the Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007 (PL 110-140). The EISA, among other things, prohibits market manipulation by any person in connection with the purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline or petroleum distillates at wholesale in contravention of such rules and regulations that the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe, directs the Federal Trade Commission to enforce the regulations, and establishes penalties for violations thereunder. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it cannot predict the impact of future government regulation on any crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids facilities, sales or transportation transactions.
Environmental Regulation
Companies that are engaged in the oil and gas industry are affected by federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Those laws may impact operations of the underlying properties. No material expenses have been incurred on the underlying properties in complying with environmental laws and regulations. XTO Energy does not expect that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on the trust.
There is an increased focus by local, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change. Several states have adopted climate change legislation and regulations, and various other regulatory bodies have announced their intent to regulate GHG emissions or adopt climate change regulations. As these regulations are under development, XTO Energy is unable to predict the total impact of the potential regulations upon the operators of the underlying properties, and it is possible that operators of the underlying properties could face increases in operating costs in order to comply with climate change or GHG emissions legislation, which costs could reduce net proceeds payable to the trust and trust distributions.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Federal Income Taxes
For federal income tax purposes, the trust constitutes a fixed investment trust which is taxed as a grantor trust. A grantor trust is not subject to tax at the trust level. The unitholders are considered to own the trust’s income and principal as though no trust were in existence. The income of the trust is deemed to have been received or accrued by each unitholder at the time such income is received or accrued by the trust and not when distributed by the trust.
Because the trust is a grantor trust for federal tax purposes, each unitholder is taxed directly on his proportionate share of income, deductions and credits of the trust consistent with each such unitholder’s taxable year and method of accounting and without regard to the taxable year or method of accounting employed by the trust. The income of the trust consists primarily of a specified share of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties. During 2011, the trust earned interest income on funds held for distribution and for the cash reserve maintained for the payment of contingent and future obligations of the trust.
The net profits interests constitute “economic interests” in oil and gas properties for federal tax purposes. Each unitholder is entitled to amortize the cost of the units through cost depletion over the life of the net profits interests or, if greater, through percentage depletion equal to 15 percent of gross income. Unlike cost depletion, percentage depletion is not limited to a unitholder’s depletable tax basis in the units. Rather, a unitholder is entitled to a percentage depletion deduction as long as the applicable underlying properties generate gross income. Unitholders may compute both percentage depletion and cost depletion from each property, and claim the larger amount as a deduction on their income tax returns.
If a taxpayer disposes of any “Section 1254 property” (certain oil, gas, geothermal or other mineral property), and if the adjusted basis of such property includes adjustments for deductions for depletion under Section 611 of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxpayer generally must recapture the amount deducted for depletion as ordinary income (to the extent of gain realized on the disposition of the property). This depletion recapture rule applies to any disposition of property that was placed in service by the taxpayer after December 31, 1986. Detailed rules set forth in Sections 1.1254-1 through 1.1254-6 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations govern dispositions of property after March 13, 1995. The Internal Revenue Service likely will take the position that a unitholder must recapture depletion upon the disposition of a unit.
Interest and net profits income attributable to ownership of units and any gain on the sale thereof are considered portfolio income, and not income from a “passive activity,” to the extent a unitholder acquires and holds units as an investment and not in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Therefore, interest and net profits income attributable to ownership of units generally may not be offset by losses from any passive activities.
Some trust units are held by middlemen, as such term is broadly defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations (and includes custodians, nominees, certain joint owners, and brokers holding an interest for a customer in street name, collectively referred to herein as “middlemen”). Therefore, the trustee considers the trust to be a non-mortgage widely held fixed investment trust (“WHFIT”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management, EIN: 56-0906609, Post Office Box 830650, Dallas, Texas. 75283-0650, telephone number 1-877-228-5083, email address trustee@hugotontrust.com, is the representative of the trust that will provide tax information in accordance with applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the trust as a WHFIT. Tax information is also posted by the trustee at www.hugotontrust.com. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the middlemen holding trust units on behalf of unitholders, and not the trustee of the trust, are solely responsible for complying with the information reporting requirements under the U.S. Treasury Regulations with respect to such trust units, including the issuance of IRS Forms 1099 and certain written tax statements. Unitholders whose trust units are held by middlemen should consult with such middlemen regarding the information that will be reported to them by the middlemen with respect to the trust units.
Unitholders should consult their tax advisors regarding trust tax compliance matters.
State Income Taxes
All revenues from the trust are from sources within either Kansas, Oklahoma or Wyoming. Because it distributes all of its net income to unitholders, the trust has not been taxed at the trust level in Kansas or Oklahoma. While the trust has not owed tax, the Trustee is required to file a return with Oklahoma and Kansas reflecting the income and deductions of the Trust attributable to properties located in each state, along with a schedule that includes information regarding distributions to unitholders. Oklahoma and Kansas tax the income of nonresidents from real property located within those states, and the trust has been advised by counsel that those states will each tax nonresidents on income from the net profits interests located in those states. Wyoming does not have a state income tax. Kansas and Oklahoma also impose a corporate income tax that may apply to unitholders organized as corporations (subject to certain exceptions for S corporations and limited liability companies, depending on their treatment for federal tax purposes).
Each unitholder should consult his or her own tax advisor regarding state income tax requirements, if any, applicable to such person’s ownership of trust units.
State Tax Withholding
Several states have enacted legislation requiring state income tax withholding from nonresident recipients of oil and gas proceeds. After consultation with its tax counsel, the trustee believes that it is not required to withhold on payments made to the unitholders. However, regulations are subject to change by the various states, which could change this conclusion. Should amounts be withheld on payments made to the trust or the unitholders, distributions to the unitholders would be reduced by the required amount, subject to the filing of a claim for refund by the trust or unitholders for such amount.
Other Regulation
The Minerals Management Service of the United States Department of the Interior amended the crude oil valuation regulations in July 2004 and the natural gas valuation regulations in June 2005 for oil and natural gas produced from federal oil and natural gas leases. The principal effect of the oil regulations pertains to which published market prices are most appropriate to value crude oil not sold in an arm’s-length transaction and what transportation deductions should be allowed. The principal effect of the natural gas valuation regulations pertains to the calculation of transportation deductions and changes necessitated by judicial decisions since the regulations were last amended. Seven percent of the net acres of the underlying properties, primarily located in Wyoming, involve federal leases. Neither of these changes have had a significant effect on trust distributions.
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and laws relating to environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it does not believe that compliance with these laws will have any material adverse effect upon the unitholders.
Item 3.