Item 2. Properties
The net profits interests are the principal asset of the trust. The trustee cannot acquire any other assets, with the exception of certain short-term investments as specified under Item 1. The trustee may sell or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the net profits interests if approved by at least 80% of the unitholders, or upon termination of the trust. Otherwise, the trust may only sell up to 1% of the value of the net profits interests in any calendar year, pursuant to notice from Cross Timbers of its desire to sell the related underlying properties. Any such sale must be for cash with the proceeds promptly distributed to the unitholders. The underlying properties are predominantly natural gas producing leases located in the states of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The principal productive areas are the Hugoton area, Anadarko Basin and Green River Basin.
Hugoton Area
Natural gas was discovered in the Hugoton area in 1922. With an estimated five million productive acres covering parts of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas, the Hugoton area is the largest natural gas producing area in North America. More than 64 trillion cubic feet of natural gas have been produced from the Hugoton area.
The Permian-aged Chase formation is the major productive formation in the Hugoton area, ranging in depth from 2,700 to 2,900 feet. Additional productive formations in the Hugoton area include the Council Grove between 2,950 and 3,400 feet, the Morrow between 6,000 and 6,300 feet, the Chester between 6,350 and 6,700 feet and the St. Louis between 7,500 and 8,000 feet.
Sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Hugoton area averaged approximately 32,400 Mcf of natural gas per day and 80 Bbls of oil per day.
Cross Timbers delivers most of its Hugoton natural gas production to a gathering and processing system operated by a subsidiary. This system collects approximately 75% of its throughput from underlying properties, which, in recent months, has been approximately 24,000 Mcf per day from 270 wells. The gathering subsidiary purchases the gas from Cross Timbers at the wellhead, gathers and transports the gas to its plant, and treats and processes the gas at the plant. The gathering subsidiary pays Cross Timbers for wellhead volumes at a price of 80% to 85% of the residue price received upon sale to Cross Timbers' marketing affiliate. Under long-term contracts, the gathering subsidiary sells residue volumes to Cross Timbers' marketing affiliate at a price equal to
the average price of several published indices and is reduced by any pipeline access fees incurred by the marketing affiliate, but is not reduced by any marketing fees. Pipeline access fees currently are approximately $0.02 per Mcf.
Other Hugoton natural gas production is delivered under a third party contract. Under the contract, Cross Timbers receives 74.5% of the net proceeds received from the sale of the residue gas and liquids.
In the Hugoton area, Cross Timbers' development plans include:
. additional compression to lower line pressures;
. pumping unit installations;
. opening new producing zones of existing wells;
. drilling additional wells; and
. drilling deeper in existing wells to new producing zones.
Most of the production from the underlying properties is from the Chase formation. In June 1999, Oklahoma regulations were amended to allow increased drilling density in the Oklahoma panhandle where Cross Timbers has approximately 200 infill well locations on the underlying properties. Cross Timbers also plans to develop other formations, including the Council Grove, Chester, Morrow and St. Louis formations that underlie the 79,500 net acres held by production by the Chase formation wells. Cross Timbers has participated in 3-D seismic shoots covering 30,000 acres of Cross Timbers' net acreage position beneath the Chase formation. Test wells were drilled to delineate the Council Grove formation in 1999 and 2000.
Cross Timbers drilled one well in 2000 to the Chester, Council Grove and Chase formations, which was successfully completed. Cross Timbers plans to perform up to 37 workovers in the Hugoton area during 2001.
Anadarko Basin
Oil and natural gas were discovered in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma in 1945. Daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin averaged 42,100 Mcf and 950 barrels in 2000. Cross Timbers is one of the largest producers in the Ringwood, Northwest Okeene and Cheyenne Valley fields in Major County, the principal producing region of the underlying properties in the Anadarko Basin.
The fields in the Major County area are characterized by oil and natural gas production from a variety of structural and stratigraphic traps. Productive zones range from 6,500 to 9,400 feet and include the Oswego, Red Fork, Inola, Chester, Manning, Mississippian, Hunton and Arbuckle formations.
A gathering subsidiary of Cross Timbers operates a 300-mile gathering system and pipeline in the Major County area. The gathering subsidiary and a third- party processor purchase natural gas produced at the wellhead from Cross Timbers and other producers in the area under life-of-production contracts. The gathering subsidiary gathers and transports the gas to a third-party processor, which processes the gas and pays Cross Timbers and other producers for at least 50% of the liquids processed. After the gas is processed, the gathering subsidiary transports the gas via a 26-mile pipeline to a connection with other pipelines. The gathering subsidiary sells the residue gas to the marketing subsidiary of Cross Timbers based upon the average price of several published indices. The gathering subsidiary pays this price to Cross Timbers less a compression and gathering fee of $0.317 per Mcf of residue gas. This gathering fee was previously approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission when the gathering subsidiary was regulated. During 2000, the gathering system collected approximately 18,000 Mcf per day from over 400 wells, 70% of which Cross Timbers operates. Estimated capacity of the gathering system is 40,000 Mcf per day. The gathering subsidiary also provides contract operating services to properties in Woodward County, collecting approximately 161,000 Mcf per month from 34 wells, for a historical average fee of approximately $0.125 per Mcf.
Cross Timbers also sells natural gas to its marketing subsidiary, which then sells the gas to third parties. The price paid to Cross Timbers is based upon the average price of several published indices, but does not include a deduction for any marketing fees. The price paid by the marketing affiliate includes a deduction for any transportation fees charged by the third party.
Cross Timbers plans to develop the Major County area primarily through:
. mechanical stimulation of existing wells;
. opening new producing zones in existing wells;
. deepening existing wells to new producing zones; and
. drilling additional wells.
Cross Timbers drilled 18 gross (12.9 net) wells in 2000 in the northwest portion of Major County, targeting the Chester, Inola, Oswego and Red Fork formations. All of these wells were successfully completed. Cross Timbers plans to drill up to 27 wells and perform up to 17 workovers in the Anadarko Basin during 2001.
Green River Basin
The Green River Basin is located in southwestern Wyoming. Natural gas was discovered in the Fontenelle field of the Green River Basin in the early 1970s. The producing reservoirs are the Cretaceous-aged Frontier and Dakota sandstones at depths ranging from 7,500 to 10,000 feet. Daily sales volumes from the underlying properties in the Fontenelle field averaged 26,200 Mcf of natural gas and 60 Bbls of oil in 2000.
Cross Timbers markets the natural gas produced from the Fontenelle Unit and nearby properties under three different marketing arrangements. Under the agreement covering 70% of the gas sold, Cross Timbers compresses the gas on the lease, transports it off the lease and compresses the gas again prior to entry into the gas plant pipeline. The pipeline transports the gas 35 miles to the gas plant, where the gas is processed, then redelivered to Cross Timbers and sold to Cross Timbers' marketing subsidiary. The owner of the gas plant and related pipeline charges Cross Timbers for operational fuel and processing. In 2000, the fuel charge was 0.025% of the volumes produced and the processing fee was $0.05 per MMBtu. The marketing subsidiary then sells the residue gas to third parties based upon a spot sales price and pays the net sales proceeds to Cross Timbers. The marketing subsidiary does not receive a marketing fee. The gas not sold under the above arrangement is sold either under a similar arrangement where the fee is $0.145 per MMBtu, or under a contract where Cross Timbers directly sells the gas to a third party on the lease at an adjusted index price. Condensate is sold at the lease to an independent third party at market rates.
During 1997, Cross Timbers installed additional pipeline compression to lower overall field operating pressures and improve overall field performance. Cross Timbers also completed an interconnect to another pipeline in the southeastern part of the Fontenelle field that added an additional market for natural gas.
Potential development activities for the fields in this area include:
. additional compression to lower line pressures,
. opening new producing zones of existing wells,
. deepening existing wells to new producing zones, and
. drilling additional wells.
Cross Timbers drilled five gross (4.9 net) wells in the Fontenelle Unit in 2000, all of which were successfully completed. Cross Timbers plans to drill up to ten wells and perform up to seven workovers in the Green River Basin during 2001.
Producing Acreage and Well Counts
For the following data, "gross" refers to the total wells or acres on the underlying properties in which Cross Timbers owns a working interest and "net" refers to gross wells or acres multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by Cross Timbers. Although many of Cross Timbers' wells produce both oil and gas, a well is categorized as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of oil to natural gas production.
The underlying properties are interests in developed properties located primarily in gas producing regions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. The following is a summary of the approximate producing acreage of the underlying properties at December 31, 2000. Undeveloped acreage is not significant.
The following is a summary of the producing wells on the underlying properties as of December 31, 2000:
There were seven (5.2 net) wells in process of drilling at December 31, 2000.
The following is a summary of the number of wells drilled on the underlying properties during the year ended December 31, 2000. Unless otherwise indicated, all wells drilled are developmental.
- -------- (a) Included in completed gas wells are ten gross (1.7 net) wells drilled on nonoperated interests. (b) Completed oil wells were drilled on nonoperated interests.
Oil and Gas Production
Trust production is recognized in the period royalty income is received, which is the month following receipt by Cross Timbers, and generally two months after the time of production. Because of this two-month interval, the trust's initial accounting year ended December 31, 1999 includes royalty income related to eleven months of oil and gas sales, or December 1998 (the trust's initial month) through October 1999 production. Oil and gas production and average sales prices attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interests for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 were as follows:
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
General
The following are definitions adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used in the following discussion of oil and natural gas reserves:
Proved reserves--Estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which, upon analysis of geologic and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Proved developed reserves--Proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped reserves--Proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required.
Estimated future net revenues--Also referred to herein as "estimated future net cash flows." Computational result of applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by existing contractual arrangements) to estimated future production from proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves. Estimated future net revenues do not include the effects of the tight sands tax credit, since the trust is not a taxable entity and the credit inures directly to the benefit of the unitholder (see "Regulation-- Tight Sands Tax Credit").
Present value of estimated future net revenues--Also referred to herein as "standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows" or "standardized measure." Computational result of discounting estimated future net revenues at a rate of 10% annually.
Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers, has estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties and net profits interests as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of these reserves may be substantially different from the original estimates.
Reserve quantities and revenues for the net profits interests were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined interests of the trust and Cross Timbers in the subject properties. Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserve quantities. Accordingly, reserves allocated to the trust pertaining to its 80% net profits interest in the properties have effectively been reduced to reflect recovery of the trust's 80% portion of applicable production and development costs, excluding overhead. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes in such discounted cash flows as presented below are prepared using assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These assumptions include the use of year-end prices for oil and gas and year-end costs for estimated future development and production expenditures to produce the proved reserves. Because natural gas prices are influenced by seasonal demand, use of year-end prices, as required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, may not be the most representative in estimating future revenues or reserve data. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%. No provision is included for federal income taxes since future net revenues are not subject to taxation at the trust level.
Year-end oil prices used to determine the standardized measure were based on a West Texas Intermediate crude oil posted price of $23.75 per Bbl in 2000, $22.75 per Bbl in 1999 and $9.50 per Bbl in 1998. The year-end weighted average realized gas prices used to determine the standardized measure were $9.44 per Mcf in 2000, $2.23 per Mcf in 1999 and $2.01 per Mcf in 1998.
Proved Reserves
The following table reconciles the change in proved reserves attributable to the underlying properties and net profits interests from December 31, 1998 through December 31, 2000:
Extensions, discoveries and additions in 1999 and 2000 are primarily related to delineation of additional proved undeveloped reserves in the Anadarko Basin. Upward revisions of prior estimates of the proved reserves for the underlying properties during 2000 are because of lower than estimated production decline. Upward
revisions of prior estimates of proved gas reserves of the net profits interests as compared with downward revisions of the underlying properties in 1999, and higher upward revisions for the net profits interests as compared with the underlying properties in 2000, were caused by higher year-end gas prices which resulted in increased gas reserves allocated to the trust.
Proved Developed Reserves
The following are estimated quantities of proved developed reserves attributable to the underlying properties and net profits interests as of December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000:
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows from Proved Reserves
The following are summary calculations of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable to the underlying properties and net profits interests as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998:
Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows from Proved Reserves
The following summarizes the changes in the standardized measure during 2000 and 1999 for the net profits interests. Significant upward revisions in 2000 were caused by the increase in year-end gas prices:
Regulation
Natural Gas Regulation
The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including transportation rates charged, storage tariffs and various other matters, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas terminated on January 1, 1993. While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties.
Environmental Regulation
Companies that are engaged in the oil and gas industry are affected by federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Those laws may impact operations of the underlying properties. No material expenses have been incurred on the underlying properties in complying with environmental laws and regulations. Cross Timbers does not expect that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on the trust.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Other Regulation
The Minerals Management Service of the United States Department of the Interior is evaluating existing methods of settling royalties on federal and Native American oil and gas leases. Seven percent of the net acres of the underlying properties, primarily located in Wyoming, involve federal leases. Although the final rules could cause an increase in the federal royalties to be paid on these properties, and, correspondingly, decrease the revenue to Cross Timbers and the trust, Cross Timbers' management does not believe that the proposed rule changes will have a significant detrimental effect on trust distributions.
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and laws relating to environmental protection, occupational
safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. Cross Timbers Oil has advised the trustee that it does not believe that compliance with these laws will have any material adverse effect upon the unitholders.
Tight Sands Tax Credit
The trust receives royalty income from tight sands wells, certain production from which qualifies for the federal income tax credit for producing nonconventional fuels under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Section 29 tax credit is available for tight sands gas produced and sold through 2002 from wells drilled prior to January 1, 1993 and after November 5, 1990, or after December 31, 1979 if the related formation was dedicated to interstate commerce as of April 20, 1977. This tax credit is approximately $0.52 per MMBtu. Such credit, calculated based on the unitholder's pro rata share of qualifying production, may not reduce the unitholder's regular tax liability (after the foreign tax credit and certain other nonrefundable credits) below his tentative minimum tax. Any part of the Section 29 credit not allowed for the tax year solely because of this limitation is subject to certain carryover provisions.
Pricing and Sales Information
A subsidiary of Cross Timbers purchases Cross Timbers' natural gas production at the monthly published price, then sells the gas to third parties for the best available price. Any marketing gains or losses are not included in trust net proceeds. Oil production is generally marketed at the wellhead to third parties at the best available price. Cross Timbers arranges for some of its natural gas to be processed by unaffiliated third parties and markets the natural gas liquids. The natural gas attributable to the underlying properties is marketed under contracts existing at trust inception. Contracts covering production from the Major County area are generally for the life of the lease, and the contract for the majority of production from the Hugoton area expires in 2004. If new contracts are entered with unaffiliated third parties, the proceeds from sales under those new contracts will be included in gross proceeds from the underlying properties. If new contracts are entered with Cross Timbers' marketing subsidiary, it may charge Cross Timbers a fee that may not exceed 2% of the sales price of the oil and natural gas received from unaffiliated parties. The sales price is net of any deductions for transportation from the wellhead to the unaffiliated parties and any gravity or quality adjustments.
Item 3.