Item 2. Properties.
We own a fleet of seven vessels and 38 ROVs, five trenchers, and two ROV Drills. We also lease four vessels and one ROV. Currently all of our vessels, both owned and leased, have DP capabilities specifically designed to respond to the deepwater market requirements. Two of our vessels have built-in saturation diving systems.
DIVESTITURES
In 2008, we sold a 30% working interest in the Bushwood discoveries (Garden Banks Blocks 462,463, 506 and 507) and other Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas properties (East Cameron Blocks 371 and 381), to affiliates of a private independent oil and gas company for total cash consideration of approximately $183.4 million (which included the purchasers’ share of incurred capital expenditures on these fields), and additional potential cash payments of up to $20 million contingent on exceeding specified field production milestones. The co-owners also pay their pro rata share of all capital expenditures related to the exploration, development and decommissioning of these fields. Future asset retirement costs will be shared on a pro rata share basis between the co-owners and us. Proceeds from the sale of these properties were used to partially repay our outstanding revolving loans in April 2008. As a result of these sales, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $91.6 million in the first half of 2008.
In May 2008, we sold all our interests in our onshore proved and unproved oil and gas properties located in the states of Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana, New Mexico and Wyoming (“Onshore Properties”) to an unrelated third party. We sold these Onshore Properties for cash proceeds of $47.3 million and recorded a related loss of $11.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. Proceeds from the sale of these properties were used to reduce our outstanding revolving loans in May 2008. Included in the cost basis of the Onshore Properties was $8.1 million of allocated goodwill from our Oil and Gas segment.
In December 2008, we announced the sale of all our interests in the Bass Lite field (Atwater Block 426), a 17.5% working interest, to our joint interest owners in the field for approximately $49 million. Proceeds from the sale were used to fund our working capital requirements.
Since the beginning of 2009, dispositions of non-core business assets (see “Our Strategy” above) resulted in receipt of the following pre-tax proceeds:
•
$100 million from the sale of a total of 15.2 million shares of CDI common stock held by us to CDI in separate transactions in January and June 2009;
•
$25 million for the sale of our subsurface reservoir consulting business in April 2009.
OUR VESSELS
Listing of Vessels, Barges and ROVs Related to Contracting Services Operations(1)
The following table details the average utilization rate for our vessels by category (calculated by dividing the total number of days the vessels in this category generated revenues by the total number of calendar days in the applicable period) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
We incur routine drydock, inspection, maintenance and repair costs pursuant to Coast Guard regulations in order to maintain our vessels in class under the rules of the applicable class society. In addition to complying with these requirements, we have our own vessel maintenance program that we believe permits us to continue to provide our customers with well maintained, reliable vessels. In the normal course of business, we charter other vessels on a short-term basis, such as tugboats, cargo barges, utility boats and additional robotics support vessels.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
We own a 50% interest in Deepwater Gateway, a limited liability company in which Enterprise Products Partners L.P. is the other member. Deepwater Gateway was formed to construct, install and own the Marco Polo TLP in order to process production from Anadarko Petroleum Corporation’s Marco Polo field discovery at Green Canyon Block 608, which is located in water depths of 4,300 feet. Anadarko required processing capacity of 50,000 barrels of oil per day and 150 million cubic feet (Mmcf) of natural gas per day for its Marco Polo field. The Marco Polo TLP was designed to process 120,000 barrels of oil per day and 300 Mmcf of natural gas per day and payload with space for up to six subsea tiebacks.
We also own a 20% interest in Independence Hub, an affiliate of Enterprise Products Partners L.P., that owns the Independence Hub platform, a 105 foot deep draft, semi-submersible platform located in Mississippi Canyon Block 920 in a water depth of 8,000 feet that serves as a regional hub for natural gas production from multiple ultra-Deepwater fields in the previously untapped eastern Gulf of Mexico. First production began in July 2007. The Independence Hub facility is capable of processing up to 1 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day of gas.
Further, we, along with Kommandor Rømø, a Danish corporation, formed Kommandor LLC and converted a ferry vessel into the HP I, a dynamically positioned floating production vessel. The initial conversion of the HP I was completed in April 2009, and we have chartered the vessel from Kommandor LLC. We own approximately 81% of Kommandor LLC.
After the initial conversion and our subsequent charter of the HP I, we installed, at 100% our cost, processing facilities and a disconnectable fluid transfer system on the vessel. The HP I is capable of processing up to 45,000 barrels of oil and 70 MMcf of natural gas daily. We had planned for the vessel to be initially used at our Phoenix field; however, in June 2010 as we approached reestablishment of production from the Phoenix field, the vessel was contracted to assist in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill response and containment efforts (Note 1). Following these services, the HP I returned to the Phoenix field, where production commenced on October 19, 2010. The results of Kommandor LLC and the HP I are consolidated within our Production Facilities business segment (Note 17).
SUMMARY OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS RESERVE DATA
Accounting Rules Activities
In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserve reporting requirements. In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update 2010-03 “Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures.” We adopted these rules on December 31, 2009 in conjunction with our year-end 2009 proved reserve estimates and implemented the mandated authoritative guidance issued by the FASB on extractive activities for oil and gas reserve estimation and disclosures requirements. The objective of this guidance was to align the oil and gas reserve estimation and disclosure requirements with the requirements of the SEC. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
*
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves - Probable and Possible reserves may be disclosed separately from proved reserves on a voluntary basis. We elected not to disclose Probable and Possible reserves;
*
Reserves Estimation Using New Techniques - Reserves may be estimated through a use of reliable techniques in addition to traditional flow test and production history;
*
Disclosure by Geographic Area - Reserves in foreign countries must be presented separately if such reserves represent more than 15% of our total estimated oil and gas proved reserves; and
One effect of adoption of these rules included the application of a lower oil price at December 31, 2010 (representing the average price for the year $77.55 per barrel) than what would have been used under the previous rule (year end price of $91.38 per barrel). At December 31, 2009, the requirement to use an average price for both oil and natural gas ($58.05 per barrel and $3.72 per mmbtu) caused such prices to be significantly lower than those in effect at December 31, 2009 ($79.36 per barrel and $5.79 per mmbtu). Reduced prices for oil and natural gas generally result in lower estimates of proved reserves. Other than these price differences, adoption of these new regulations had little effect on our estimates of reserves at both December 31, 2010 and 2009; however, the rule requiring development of proved undeveloped reserves within five years could significantly impact future estimates of our proved reserves (see “Proved Undeveloped Reserves” below).
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserve estimates require reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Responsibility for compliance in reserves bookings is delegated to our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering.
Our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering prepares all reserve estimates covering all of our oil and gas properties. Our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering has a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering and over 15 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility in engineering and reservoir evaluations.
We employ full-time experienced reserve engineers and geologists who are responsible for determining proved reserves in conformance with SEC guidelines. Engineering reserve estimates were prepared by us based upon our interpretation of production performance data and sub-surface information derived from the drilling of existing wells. Our internal reservoir engineers analyzed 100% of our oil and gas fields on an annual basis (82 fields as of December 31, 2010). We consider any field to be significant if its estimated discounted future net revenues represent 1% or more than our total estimated discounted future net revenues from all of our fields.
Lastly, we engage a third party independent reservoir engineer firm to separately review our reserve estimation process and the results of this process. We also separately engaged the independent reservoir engineer firm to prepare their own estimates of our proved reserves at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Their proved reserve estimates are included herein as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report. The same independent reservoir engineer firm audited substantially all of our estimates of proved reserves at December 31, 2008. See Note 19 for information regarding the independent petroleum engineer’s audit of our proved reserve estimates at December 31, 2008.
The table below sets forth the approximate estimate of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2010. Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because the estimation of reserves involves numerous judgmental determinations. Accordingly, reserve estimates must be continually revised as a result of new information obtained from drilling and production history, new geological and geophysical data and changes in economic conditions.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (“PUDs”)
At December 31, 2010, our PUDs totaled 151 Bcf of natural gas and 13 MMBbls of crude oil for a total of 230 Bcfe. Our PUDs represent approximately 61% of our total estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009 our estimated PUD reserves totaled 364 Bcfe. All estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise and subject to change as new technical information about the properties is obtained. Estimates of proved reserves for wells with little or no production history are less reliable than those based on a long production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves may result in variations which may be substantial. This is especially valid as it pertains to PUD reserves.
Our most substantial PUDs are located at our Bushwood field (see “Significant Oil and Gas Properties” below). Our Bushwood field has estimated PUDs totaling approximately 109 Bcfe representing approximately 47% of all our estimated PUD reserves and 29% of our total estimated proved reserves. In June 2010, in connection with our regular mid-year proved reserve review, we had substantial reductions in our PUD reserve estimates, including a 91 Bcfe reduction in our estimated Bushwood field PUD reserves primarily reflecting well performance issues with our Noonan gas wells. Separately, we also eliminated the approximate 12 Bcfe of estimate PUD reserves related to our one United Kingdom property following our decision that we would no longer seek to further develop the field. In 2010, we developed approximate 3.9 Bcfe of PUD reserves at our Gunnison field. See Note 5 for additional information regarding our mid-year 2010 estimated proved reserves and our intention to abandon our United Kingdom property in accordance with applicable United Kingdom regulations.
Costs incurred to develop PUDs totaled $40.1 million in 2010, $53.2 million in 2009 and $154.4 million in 2008. All PUD drilling locations are expected to be drilled pursuant with the newly enacted requirements (see “Accounting Rules Activity” above). Accordingly, estimated future development costs related to the development of PUDs are approximately $302.9 million at December 31, 2010.
For additional information regarding estimates of oil and gas reserves, including estimates of proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in discounted future net cash flows, see Note 19.
Significant Oil and Gas Properties
Our oil and gas properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases. As of December 31, 2010, our exploration, development and production operations were located exclusively in the United States located offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. We have one inactive field, known as Camelot, located in the North Sea. We plan to abandon the Camelot field in accordance with applicable United Kingdom regulations during 2011.
All of our production during 2010 and the 376 Bcfe of total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010 (approximately 81% of such total estimated reserves are PUDs, PDSI, and PDNP) is attributed to our properties located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The following table provides a brief description of our oil and gas properties we consider most significant to us at December 31, 2010:
(1)
Garden Banks Blocks 462, 463, 506 and 507 (formerly called Noonan/Danny). Although the Bushwood field is currently producing there remains a significant amount of PUD reserves that we intend to develop in order to sustain future production from the field.
(2)
Green Canyon Blocks 236, 237, 238 and 282.
(3)
Third party operated property comprised of Garden Banks Blocks 625, 667, 668 and 669.
(4)
Green Canyon Block 490. Field is currently being developed and we expect initial production in 2011.
United States Offshore
Deepwater
The estimated proved reserves associated with our four fields in the Deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico totaled approximately 210 Bcfe or approximately 56% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010. We are the operator in fields representing approximately 57% of our Deepwater proved reserves (approximately 32% of total proved reserves). We operate the Phoenix field and certain portions of the Bushwood field. Gunnison, a non-operated field, has been producing since December 2003. In 2009, we participated in the discovery at the Jake Prospect, which is expected to be developed and commence production in 2011. Our net production from our Deepwater properties totaled approximately 26.9 Bcfe in 2010 as compared to 12.3 Bcfe in 2009. The increased production reflects further development of the Bushwood field in early 2010 and the commencement of production from the Phoenix field in October 2010.
Outer Continental Shelf
Our estimated proved reserves for our 78 fields in the Gulf of Mexico on the OCS totaled approximately 166 Bcfe or 44% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010. Our net production from the OCS properties totaled approximately 20.3 Bcfe in 2010 and 31.3 Bcfe in 2009. Our largest field on the OCS is East Cameron Block 346, the total estimated proved reserves of which represents approximately 20% of our aggregated OCS estimated proved reserves (or approximately 9% of total estimated proved reserves). Only two other individual OCS fields represented over 5% of our total estimated proved reserves. The South Timbalier Blocks 86/63 field represented approximately 15% of our total estimated OCS proved reserves (or approximately 7% of our total estimated proved reserves) and the South Pass Block 89 field representing approximately 13% of total OCS proved reserves (approximately 6% of total estimated proved reserves). We are the operator of 76% of our OCS properties the composite estimated proved reserves of which totals approximately 127 Bcfe.
As long as we continue to have interests in our oil and gas properties, we will continue to advance our development activities and may pursue additional future exploration opportunities primarily in the Deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico.
United Kingdom Offshore
In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, of which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. In February 2010, we acquired our joint interest partner and as a result we own a 100% interest in the Camelot field (Note 5). We are now obligated to pay the entire asset retirement obligation for the field (estimated to approximate $12 million). During 2011, we plan to abandon the Camelot field in accordance with the applicable U.K. regulations. The results of our U.K. operations were immaterial for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Production, Price and Cost Data
Production, price and cost data for our oil and gas operations in the United States are as follows:
Productive Wells
The number of productive oil and gas wells in which we held interests as of December 31, 2010 is as follows:
Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which we own a working interest. A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well in this table.
The following table summarizes non-producing wells and wells with multiple completions as of December 31, 2010:
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The developed and undeveloped acreage (including both leases and concessions) that we held at December 31, 2010 is as follows:
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assignable to productive wells. A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Included within undeveloped acreage are those leased acres (held by production under the terms of a lease) that are not within the spacing unit containing, or acreage assigned to, the productive well holding such lease. The current terms of our leases on undeveloped acreage are scheduled to expire as shown in the table below (the terms of a lease may be extended by drilling and production operations):
Drilling Activity
The following table shows the results of oil and gas wells drilled in the United States for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
No wells were drilled in the United Kingdom in 2010, 2009 or 2008. We did not have any in progress wells at December 31, 2010.
A productive well is an exploratory or development well that is not a dry hole. A dry hole is an exploratory or development well determined to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well, for purposes of the table above and as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC, is a well drilled within the proved area of a crude oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The
number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. Completion refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of crude oil or natural gas, or in the case of a dry hole, to the reporting of abandonment to the appropriate agency. See Note 5, for additional information regarding our oil and gas operations.
FACILITIES
Our corporate headquarters are located at 400 North Sam Houston Parkway, East, Suite 400, Houston, Texas. We own the Aberdeen (Dyce), Scotland facility and our Spoolbase in Ingleside, Texas. All other facilities are leased.
Item 3.