Item 2. Properties.
We own a fleet of 39 vessels and 37 ROVs, 5 trenchers, and 2 ROVDrills. We also lease six vessels, one trencher and one ROV. We believe that the market in the Gulf of Mexico requires specially designed and/or equipped vessels to competitively deliver subsea construction and well operations services. Eleven of our vessels have DP capabilities specifically designed to respond to the deepwater market requirements. Fifteen of our vessels (13 of which are based in the Gulf of Mexico) have the capability to provide saturation diving services.
Divestitures in
In March and April 2008, we sold a total 30% working interest in the Bushwood discoveries (Garden Banks Blocks 463, 506 and 507) and other Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas properties (East Cameron Blocks 371 and 381), in two separate transactions to affiliates of a private independent oil and gas company for total cash consideration of approximately $183.4 million (which included the purchasers’ share of incurred capital expenditures on these fields), and additional potential cash payments of up to $20 million based upon certain field production milestones. The new co-owners will also pay their pro rata share of all future capital expenditures related to the exploration and development of these fields. Decommissioning liabilities will be shared on a pro rata share basis between the new co-owners and us. Proceeds from the sale of these properties were used to partially repay our outstanding revolving loans in April 2008. As a result of these sales, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $91.6 million in the first half of 2008.
In May 2008, we sold all our interests in our onshore proved and unproved oil and gas properties located in the states of Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana, New Mexico and Wyoming (“Onshore Properties”) to an unrelated investor. We sold these Onshore Properties for cash proceeds of $47.3 million and recorded a related loss of $11.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. Proceeds
from the sale of these properties were used to reduce our outstanding revolving loans in May 2008. Included in the cost basis of the Onshore Properties was $8.1 million of allocated goodwill from our Oil and Gas segment.
In December 2008, we announced the sale of all our interests in the Bass Lite field (Atwater Block 426), a 17.5% working interest, to our joint interest owners in the field for approximately $49 million. The sale had three separate closings and an effective date of November 1, 2008. Proceeds from the sale were used to fund our working capital requirements.
OUR VESSELS
Listing of Vessels, Barges and ROVs Related to Contracting Services Operations(1)
__________
(1)
Under government regulations and our insurance policies, we are required to maintain our vessels in accordance with standards of seaworthiness and safety set by government regulations and classification organizations. We maintain our fleet to the standards for seaworthiness, safety and health set by the ABS, Bureau Veritas (“BV”), Det Norske Veritas (“DNV”), Lloyds Register of Shipping (“Lloyds”), and the USCG. The ABS, BV, DNV and Lloyds are classification societies used by ship owners to certify that their vessels meet certain structural, mechanical and safety equipment standards.
(2)
Represents the date we placed the vessel in service and not the date of commissioning.
(3)
Currently under conversion into a deepwater pipelay asset with completion expected in the second half of 2009.
(4)
Subject to vessel mortgages securing our Senior Credit Facilities described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 11 - Long-term Debt.”
(5)
Former ferry vessel undergoing conversion into DP floating production unit for initial use on our Phoenix field. See Production Facilities on page 31.
(6)
Subject to vessel mortgage securing our MARAD debt described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 11 - Long-term Debt.”
(7)
Currently under construction and expected to be placed into service in second quarter 2009.
(8)
Owned and operated by our domestic subsidiary under a secured lien, except for one ROV and one Trencher which are leased.
(9)
Average age of our fleet of ROVs, trenchers and ROV Drills is approximately 4.5 years.
(10)
Leased.
(11)
Subject to vessel mortgages securing CDI’s $675 million credit facility described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 11 - Long-term Debt.”
In addition to CDI’s saturation diving vessels, CDI currently owns ten portable saturation diving systems, including six acquired from Fraser.
The following table details the average utilization rate for our vessels by category (calculated by dividing the total number of days the vessels in this category generated revenues by the total number of calendar days in the applicable period) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
We incur routine drydock, inspection, maintenance and repair costs pursuant to Coast Guard regulations and in order to maintain our vessels in class under the rules of the applicable class society. In addition to complying with these requirements, we have our own vessel maintenance program that we believe permits us to continue to provide our customers with well maintained, reliable vessels. In the normal course of business, we charter in other vessels on a short-term basis, such as tugboats, cargo barges, utility boats and dive support vessels.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
Through our interest in Deepwater Gateway, a limited liability company in which Enterprise Products Partners L.P. is the other member, we own a 50% interest in the Marco Polo TLP, which was installed on Green Canyon Block 608 in 4,300 feet of water. Deepwater Gateway was formed to construct, install and own the Marco Polo TLP in order to process production from Anadarko Petroleum Corporation’s Marco Polo field discovery at Green Canyon Block 608. Anadarko required 50,000 barrels of oil per day and 150 million feet per day of processing capacity for Marco Polo. The Marco Polo TLP was designed to process 120,000 barrels of oil per day and 300 million cubic feet of gas per day and payload with space for up to six subsea tie backs.
We also own a 20% interest in Independence Hub, an affiliate of Enterprise Products Partners L.P., that owns the Independence Hub platform, a 105 foot deep draft, semi-submersible platform located in Mississippi Canyon block 920 in a water depth of 8,000 feet that serves as a regional hub for natural gas production from multiple ultra-Deepwater fields in the previously untapped eastern Gulf of Mexico. First production began in July 2007. The Independence Hub facility is capable of processing up to 1 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day of gas.
We own a 20% interest in the Gunnison truss spar facility, together with the operator Kerr-McGee Oil & Gas Corporation (“Kerr-McGee”), which owns a 50% interest, and Nexen, Inc., which owns the remaining 30% interest. The Gunnison spar, which is moored
in 3,150 feet of water and located on Garden Banks Block 668, has daily production capacity of 40,000 barrels of oil and 200 million cubic feet of gas. This facility is designed with excess capacity to accommodate production from satellite prospects in the area.
Further, we, along with Kommandor Rømø, a Danish corporation, formed a joint venture company called Kommandor LLC to convert a ferry vessel into a floating production unit to be named the Helix Producer I. The total cost of the ferry and its initial conversion is estimated to range between $150 million and $160 million, We have provided $84.7 million in interim construction financing through December 31, 2008 to the joint venture on terms that would equal an arms length financing transaction, and Kommandor Rømø has provided $5 million on the same terms.
Total equity contributions and indebtedness guarantees provided by Kommandor Rømø are expected to total $42.5 million. The remaining costs to complete the project will be provided by us through equity contributions. Under the terms of the operating agreement for the joint venture, if Kommandor Rømø elects not to make further contributions to the joint venture, the ownership interests in the joint venture will be adjusted based on the relative contributions of each partner to the total of all contributions and project financing guarantees.
Upon completion of the initial conversion, scheduled for second quarter 2009, we will charter the Helix Producer I from Kommandor LLC, and plan to install, at 100% our cost, processing facilities and a disconnectable fluid transfer system on the Helix Producer I for initial use on our Phoenix field. The cost of these additional facilities is estimated to approximate $200 million when the work is expected to be completed in early 2010. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $210.1 million of costs related to the purchase of the Helix Producer I ($20 million), conversion of the Helix Producer I and construction of the additional facilities had been incurred, with an additional $4.9 million committed. Kommandor LLC qualified as a variable interest entity under FIN 46(R). We determined that we were the primary beneficiary of Kommandor LLC and thus have consolidated the financial results of Kommandor LLC as of December 31, 2008 in our Production Facilities segment. Kommandor LLC has been a development stage enterprise since its formation in October 2006.
SUMMARY OF NATURAL GAS AND OIL RESERVE DATA
We employ full-time experienced reserve engineers and geologists who are responsible for determining proved reserves in conformance with SEC guidelines. Engineering reserve estimates were prepared by us based upon our interpretation of production performance data and sub-surface information derived from the drilling of existing wells. Our internal reservoir engineers and independent petroleum engineers analyzed 100% of our United States oil and gas fields on an annual basis (107 fields as of December 31, 2008). We consider any field with discounted future net revenues of 1% or greater of the total discounted future net revenues of all our fields to be significant. An “engineering audit,” as we use the term, is a process involving an independent petroleum engineering firm’s (Huddleston & Co., Inc. (“Huddleston”)) extensive visits, collection and examination of all geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data requested by the independent petroleum engineering firm. Our use of the term “engineering audit” is intended only to refer to the collective application of the procedures which Huddleston was engaged to perform and may be defined and used differently by other companies.
The engineering audit of our reserves by the independent petroleum engineers involves their rigorous examination of our technical evaluation, interpretation and extrapolations of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines as well as other technical information and measurements. Our internal reservoir engineers interpret this data to determine the nature of the reservoir and ultimately the quantity of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to a specific property. Our proved reserves in this Annual Report include only quantities that we expect to recover commercially using current prices, costs, existing regulatory practices and technology. While we are reasonably certain that the proved reserves will be produced, the timing and ultimate recovery can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and changes in projections of long-term oil and gas prices. Revisions can include upward or downward changes in the previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data or (2) new geologic or reservoir data obtained from wells. Revisions can also include changes associated with significant changes in development strategy, oil and gas prices, or the related production equipment/facility capacity. Huddleston also examined our estimates with respect to reserve categorization, using the definitions for proved reserves set forth in Regulation S-X Rule 4-10(a) and subsequent SEC staff interpretations and guidance.
In the conduct of the engineering audit, Huddleston did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties or sales of production. However, if in the course of the examination something came to the attention of Huddleston which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, Huddleston did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. Furthermore, in instances where decline curve analysis was not adequate in determining proved producing reserves, Huddleston evaluated our volumetric analysis, which included the analysis of production and pressure data. Each of the PUDs analyzed by Huddleston included volumetric analysis, which took into consideration recovery factors relative to the geology of the location and similar reservoirs. Where applicable, Huddleston examined data related to well spacing, including potential drainage from offsetting producing wells in evaluating proved reserves for un-drilled well locations.
The engineering audit by Huddleston included 100% of our producing properties together with essentially all of our non-producing and undeveloped properties. Properties for analysis were selected by us and Huddleston based on discounted future net revenues. All of our significant properties were included in the engineering audit and such audited properties constituted approximately 97% of the total discounted future net revenues. Huddleston also analyzed the methods utilized by us in the preparation of all of the estimated reserves and revenues. Huddleston represents in its audit report that it believes our methodologies are consistent with the methodologies required by the SEC, Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and FASB. There were no limitations imposed, nor limitations encountered by us or Huddleston.
The table below sets forth information, as of December 31, 2008, with respect to estimates of net proved reserves. Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because the estimation of reserves involves numerous judgmental determinations. Accordingly, reserve estimates must be continually revised as a result of new information obtained from drilling and production history, new geological and geophysical data and changes in economic conditions.
For additional information regarding estimates of oil and gas reserves, including estimates of proved and proved developed reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in discounted future net cash flows, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 21- Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures.”
Significant Oil and Gas Properties
Our oil and gas properties consist primarily of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases. As of December 31, 2008, we had exploration, development and production operations in the United States, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico. In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, in which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. This is our only developed oil and gas property in the United Kingdom.
Our U.S. operations accounted for approximately 99% of our 2008 production and approximately 98% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2008 (87% of such total reserves are PUDs, PDSI and PDNP). Further, our proved producing reserves at December 31, 2008 are expected to experience annual decline rates ranging from 30% to 40% over the next ten years. The following table provides a brief description of our domestic and international oil and gas properties we consider most significant to us at December 31, 2008:
(1)
Garden Banks Blocks 462, 463, 506 and 507 (formerly Noonan/Danny).
(2)
Green Canyon Blocks 236, 237, 238 and 282.
(3)
An outside operated property comprised of Garden Banks Blocks 625, 667, 668 and 669.
(4)
Consists of our only developed property in the United Kingdom, Camelot.
United States Offshore
Deepwater
The estimated proved reserves associated with our three fields in the Deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico totaled 379 Bcfe or approximately 57 % of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2008. We are the operator of two of the three fields, which comprised approximately 94% of our Deepwater proved reserves (approximately 53% of total proved reserves). Gunnison, a non-operated field, has been producing since December 2003. Our net production in Deepwater totaled approximately 8 Bcfe in 2008. As long as we continue to have interest in properties in Deepwater, we will continue to advance our Deepwater development activities and may pursue additional future exploration opportunities.
Outer Continental Shelf
Our estimated proved reserves for our 102 fields in the Gulf of Mexico on the OCS totaled approximately 273 Bcfe or 41% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2008. Our net production from the OCS properties totaled approximately 39 Bcfe in 2008. Our largest field on the OCS is East Cameron Block 346, whose total estimated proved reserve represents approximately 13% of our aggregated OCS estimated proved reserves (or approximately 5% of total estimated proved reserves). No other individual OCS field comprised over 5% of total estimated proved reserves. We are the operator of 77% of our OCS properties whose composite estimated proved reserves totals 210 Bcfe.
United Kingdom Offshore
In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, in which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. This is our only developed oil and gas property in the United Kingdom. The results of our UK operations were immaterial for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Production, Price and Cost Data
Production, price and cost data for our oil and gas operations in the United States are as follows:
Productive Wells
The number of productive oil and gas wells in which we held interest as of December 31, 2008 is as follows:
Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned. A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well in this table.
The following table summarizes multiple completions and non-producing wells as of December 31, 2008:
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The developed and undeveloped acreage (including both leases and concessions) that we held at December 31, 2008 is as follows:
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assignable to productive wells. A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Included within undeveloped acreage are those leased acres (held by production under the terms of a lease) that are not within the spacing unit containing, or acreage assigned to, the productive well so holding such lease. The current terms of our leases on undeveloped acreage are scheduled to expire as shown in the table below (the terms of a lease may be extended by drilling and production operations):
Drilling Activity
The following table shows the results of oil and gas wells drilled in the United States for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
No wells were drilled in the United Kingdom in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
A productive well is an exploratory or development well that is not a dry hole. A dry hole is an exploratory or development well determined to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well, for purposes of the table above and as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC, is a well drilled within the proved area of a crude oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. Completion refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of crude oil or natural gas, or in the case of a dry hole, to the reporting of abandonment to the appropriate agency.
At December 31, 2008, our oil and gas operations were completing one development well and one exploration well. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 7 - Oil and Gas Properties.” These wells are located in the Gulf of Mexico.
FACILITIES
Our corporate headquarters are located at 400 N. Sam Houston Parkway, E., Suite 400, Houston, Texas. The corporate headquarters of CDI are located at 2500 CityWest Boulevard, Suite 2200, Houston Texas. We own the Aberdeen (Dyce), Scotland facility and CDI owns approximately 6½ acres of the Port of Iberia, Louisiana facility and its Port Arthur and Sabine, Texas facilities. All other facilities are leased.
Properties and Facilities Summary
__________
(1)
Kommandor LLC is a joint venture in which we owned 50% at December 31, 2008. Kommandor LLC is included in our consolidated results as of December 31, 2008.
(2)
Cal Dive International, Inc. is our Shelf Contracting subsidiary, of which we owned 57.2% at December 31, 2008 and currently own approximately 51%.
Item 3.