Item 2. Properties.
We own a fleet of seven vessels and 39 ROVs, five trenchers, and two ROVDrills. We also lease five vessels and one ROV. We believe that the market in the Gulf of Mexico requires specially designed and/or equipped vessels to competitively deliver subsea construction and well operations services. Currently all of our vessels, both owned and leased, have DP capabilities specifically designed to respond to the deepwater market requirements. Two of our vessels have built-in saturation diving systems.
Divestitures
In March and April 2008, we sold a total 30% working interest in the Bushwood discoveries (Garden Banks Blocks 463, 506 and 507) and other Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas properties (East Cameron Blocks 371 and 381), in two separate transactions to affiliates of a private independent oil and gas company for total cash consideration of approximately $183.4 million (which included the purchasers’ share of incurred capital expenditures on these fields), and additional potential cash payments of up to $20 million based upon exceeding specified field production milestones. The new co-owners will also pay their pro rata share of all future capital expenditures related to the exploration, development and decommissioning of these fields. Decommissioning liabilities will be shared on a pro rata share basis between the new co-owners and us. Proceeds from the sale of these properties were used to partially repay our outstanding revolving loans in April 2008. As a result of these sales, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $91.6 million in the first half of 2008.
In May 2008, we sold all our interests in our onshore proved and unproved oil and gas properties located in the states of Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana, New Mexico and Wyoming (“Onshore Properties”) to an unrelated third party. We sold these Onshore Properties for cash proceeds of $47.3 million and recorded a related loss of $11.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. Proceeds from the sale of these properties were used to reduce our outstanding revolving loans in May 2008. Included in the cost basis of the Onshore Properties was $8.1 million of allocated goodwill from our Oil and Gas segment.
In December 2008, we announced the sale of all our interests in the Bass Lite field (Atwater Block 426), a 17.5% working interest, to our joint interest owners in the field for approximately $49 million. The sale had an effective date of November 1, 2008. Proceeds from the sale were used to fund our working capital requirements.
In 2009 the following divestitures were made in accordance with our announcement in December 2008 to attempt to monetize the value of our non-core assets see “The Industry and Our Strategy” above. Since that announcement, we have:
·
Sold five oil and gas properties for approximately $68 million in gross proceeds;
·
Sold a total of approximately 15.2 million shares of CDI common stock held by us to CDI for $100 million in separate transactions in January and June 2009 (Note 3);
·
Sold Helix RDS Limited, our subsurface reservoir consulting business for $25 million in April 2009; and
·
Sold a total of 45.8 million shares of CDI common stock held by us to third parties in two separate public secondary offerings for approximately $404.4 million, net of underwriting fees in June 2009 and September 2009.
OUR VESSELS
Listing of Vessels, Barges and ROVs Related to Contracting Services Operations(1)
The following table details the average utilization rate for our vessels by category (calculated by dividing the total number of days the vessels in this category generated revenues by the total number of calendar days in the applicable period) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
We incur routine drydock, inspection, maintenance and repair costs pursuant to Coast Guard regulations in order to maintain our vessels in class under the rules of the applicable class society. In addition to complying with these requirements, we have our own vessel maintenance program that we believe permits us to continue to provide our customers with well maintained, reliable vessels. In the normal course of business, we charter in other vessels on a short-term basis, such as tugboats, cargo barges, utility boats and dive support vessels.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
We own a 50% interest in Deepwater Gateway, a limited liability company in which Enterprise Products Partners L.P. is the other member, which owns the Marco Polo TLP installed on Green Canyon Block 608 in 4,300 feet of water. Deepwater Gateway was formed to construct, install and own the Marco Polo TLP in order to process production from Anadarko Petroleum Corporation’s Marco Polo field discovery at Green Canyon Block 608. Anadarko required 50,000 barrels of oil per day and 150 million feet per day of processing capacity for Marco Polo. The Marco Polo TLP was designed to process 120,000 barrels of oil per day and 300 million cubic feet of gas per day and payload with space for up to six subsea tie backs.
We also own a 20% interest in Independence Hub, an affiliate of Enterprise Products Partners L.P., that owns the Independence Hub platform, a 105 foot deep draft, semi-submersible platform located in Mississippi Canyon Block 920 in a water depth of 8,000 feet that serves as a regional hub for natural gas production from multiple ultra-Deepwater fields in the previously untapped eastern Gulf of Mexico. First production began in July 2007. The Independence Hub facility is capable of processing up to 1 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day of gas.
Further, we, along with Kommandor Rømø, a Danish corporation, formed a joint venture company called Kommandor LLC and converted a ferry vessel into a floating production unit named the Helix Producer I. The total cost of the vessel and initial conversion was approximately $170 million. We provided $98.9 million in interim construction financing to the joint venture. During 2009, $58.8 million of this amount was converted to equity in our investment in Kommandor LLC. Our remaining loan balance to Kommandor LLC totaled $25.7 million at December 31, 2009. Kommandor Rømø provided a $5.0 million loan to Kommandor LLC, the remaining balance of which was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009.
Total equity contributions and indebtedness guarantees provided by Kommandor Rømø are expected to total $42.5 million. The remaining costs to complete the project will be provided by us through equity contributions. Under the terms of the operating agreement for the joint venture, Kommandor Rømø elected not to make further contributions to the joint venture, thus the ownership interests in the joint venture were adjusted based on the relative contributions of each member to the total of all contributions and project financing guarantees.
As noted above, completion of the initial conversion of the Helix Producer I was completed in April 2009, and we have chartered the vessel from Kommandor LLC, and are currently installing, at 100% our cost, processing facilities and a disconnectable fluid transfer system on the vessel for initial use on our Phoenix field expected to commence production around mid-year 2010. The cost of these additional facilities is estimated to range between $190 million and $200 million (including capitalized interest of $16 million) when the work is completed. When completed, the Helix Producer I will be capable of processing up to 45,000 barrels of oil and 70 MMcf of natural gas daily. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $269 million of costs related to the purchase of the Helix Producer I ($20 million), conversion of the Helix Producer I and construction of the additional facilities had been incurred, with an additional $12.1 million committed. The total estimated cost of the vessel, initial conversion and the additional facilities will range between approximately $360 million and $370 million. The results of Kommandor LLC are consolidated within our Production Facilities segment.
SUMMARY OF NATURAL GAS AND OIL RESERVE DATA
Recent Accounting Rules Activities
In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserve reporting requirements. In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2010-03 “Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures.” We adopted these rules on December 31, 2009 in conjunction with our year end 2009 proved reserve estimates and have implemented the newly mandated authoritative guidance issued by the
FASB on extractive activities for oil and gas reserves estimation and disclosures. The objective of the new guidance is to align the oil and gas reserve estimation and disclosure requirements with the requirements of the SEC. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following.
·
Commodity prices - estimates of proved reserves and related discounted cash flows now based on an average twelve month commodity price based on the price of oil and gas on the first day of each month for the year the reserve report relates;
·
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves - Probable and Possible reserves may be disclosed separately from proved reserves on a voluntary basis. We elected not to disclose Probable and Possible reserves;
·
Proved Undeveloped Reserve Guidelines - Reserves maybe classified as proved undeveloped reserves if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time;
·
Reserves Estimation Using New Techniques - Reserves may be estimated through a use of reliable techniques in addition to traditional flow test and production history;
·
Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process - Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserve estimation process and/or the independence of the preparer of our estimated proved reserves. We must also disclose our significant internal controls over the reserve estimation process;
·
Disclosure by Geographic Area - Reserves in foreign countries must be presented separately if such reserves represent more than 15% of our total estimated oil and gas proved reserves; and
·
Non Traditional Resources- The definition of oil and gas producing activities has been expanded to include other marketable products.
One effect of adoption of these rules included the application of lower prices at December 31, 2009 for both oil and natural gas than what would have been used under the previous rule (year end price). Generally, adoption of these new regulations had little effect on our estimates of reserves at December 31, 2009; however, the rule requiring development of proved undeveloped reserves within five years could significantly impact future estimates of our proved reserves (see “Proved Undeveloped Reserves” below).
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Responsibility for compliance in reserves bookings is delegated to our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering.
Our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering, located in our Dallas, Texas office, prepares all reserves estimates for all of our oil and gas properties.
Our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our Vice President - Reservoir Engineering has a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering and over 15 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility in engineering and evaluations.
We employ full-time experienced reserve engineers and geologists who are responsible for determining proved reserves in conformance with SEC guidelines. Engineering reserve estimates were prepared by us based upon our interpretation of production performance data and sub-surface information derived from the drilling of existing wells. Our internal reservoir engineers analyzed 100% of our oil and gas fields on an annual basis (107 fields as of December 31, 2009). We consider any field with discounted future net revenues of 1% or greater of the total discounted future net revenues of all our fields to be significant.
Lastly we engage a third party independent reservoir engineer to review and audit our reserve estimation process and the results of this process. At December 31, 2009 we engaged the independent reservoir engineer to prepare their own estimates of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009. Their proved reserve estimates are included in this Form 10-K. The same independent reservoir engineer audited substantially all of our estimates of proved reserves at December 31, 2008 and 2007. See Independent Petroleum Engineer below
Independent Petroleum Engineer
We have historically engaged a third party independent petroleum engineer to audit our internal estimates of U.S. proved oil and natural gas reserves. However, the estimates of our U.S. proved oil and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2009 were prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firm of Huddleston & Co., Inc. (“Huddleston”). We prepared the proved reserve estimates associated with our one property in the United Kingdom. Huddleston performed engineering audits of our estimates of proved reserves at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
An “engineering audit,” as we use the term, is a process involving an independent petroleum engineering firm’s extensive visits, collection and examination of all geologic, geophysical, engineering, production and economic data requested by the independent petroleum engineering firm. Our use of the term “engineering audit” is intended only to refer to the collective application of the procedures which Huddleston was engaged to perform and may be defined and used differently by other companies. The process for Huddleston to prepare their estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves is substantially the same as during their audit of our internal reserves (discussed below). The primary difference between the audit and preparation of the reserve report is that in the culmination of the audit, Huddleston represented in its audit report that it believed our methodologies are consistent with the methodologies required by the SEC, Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and FASB while in the preparation of the 2009 reserve report we simply publish Huddleston’s estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves, also in compliance with the guidelines provided by the SEC, SPE and FASB.
The engineering audit of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves (applicable for 2008 and 2007) by the independent petroleum engineers involves their rigorous examination of our technical evaluation, interpretation and extrapolations of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines as well as other technical information and measurements. Our internal reservoir engineers interpret this data to determine the nature of the reservoir and ultimately the quantity of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to a specific property. Our proved reserves in this Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include only quantities that we expected to recover commercially using the then mandated year-end prices, costs, existing regulatory practices and technology. While we are reasonably certain that the proved reserves will be produced, the timing and ultimate recovery can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and changes in projections of long-term oil and gas prices. Revisions can include upward or downward changes in the previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data or (2) new geologic or reservoir data obtained from wells. Revisions can also include changes associated with significant changes in development strategy, oil and gas prices, or the related production equipment/facility capacity. Huddleston also examined our estimates with respect to reserve categorization, using the definitions for proved reserves set forth in Regulation S-X Rule 4-10(a) and subsequent SEC staff interpretations and guidance.
In the conduct of the engineering audits in 2008 and 2007, Huddleston did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties or sales of production. However, if in the course of the examination something came to the attention of Huddleston which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, Huddleston did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. Furthermore, in instances where decline curve analysis was not adequate in determining proved producing reserves, Huddleston evaluated our volumetric analysis, which included the analysis of production and pressure data. Each of the PUDs analyzed by Huddleston included volumetric analysis, which took into consideration recovery factors relative to the geology of the location and similar reservoirs. Where applicable, Huddleston examined data related to well spacing, including potential drainage from offsetting producing wells in evaluating proved reserves for un-drilled well locations.
Huddleston prepared proved reserve estimates for all of our U.S oil and gas properties at December 31, 2009. Huddleston’s report on proved reserves is included herein as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K. In 2008, the engineering audit by Huddleston included 100% of our producing properties together with essentially all of our non-producing and undeveloped properties in the U.S. Properties for analysis were selected by us and Huddleston based on discounted future net revenues. All of our significant properties were included in the engineering audit and such audited properties constituted approximately 97% of the total discounted future net revenues. Huddleston also analyzed the methods utilized by us in the preparation of all of the estimated reserves and revenues. Huddleston represented in its audit report that it
believes our methodologies are consistent with the methodologies required by the SEC, Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and FASB. There were no limitations imposed, nor limitations encountered by us or Huddleston.
The table below sets forth the approximate estimate of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009. Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because the estimation of reserves involves numerous judgmental determinations. Accordingly, reserve estimates must be continually revised as a result of new information obtained from drilling and production history, new geological and geophysical data and changes in economic conditions.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (“PUDs”)
At December 31, 2009, our PUDs totaled 274 Bcf of natural gas and 15 MMBbls of crude oil for a total of 364 Bcfe. Our PUD’s represent 63% of our total estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves. All estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise and subject to change as new technical information about the properties is obtained. Estimates of proved reserves for wells with little or no production history are less reliable than those based on a long production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves may result in variations which may be substantial. This is especially valid as it pertains to PUD reserves.
Our most substantial PUDs are located at our Bushwood field (see “Significant Oil and Gas Properties” below). Our Bushwood field has PUDs totaling approximately 200 Bcfe representing approximately 74% of its total estimated proved reserves. We had substantial changes in our Bushwood PUD reserves in 2009 including a reclassification of 59 Bcfe from proved developed producing (PDP) to PUD based on well production history of our Noonan gas wells in field and new geologic data gathered throughout the year. Separately, we also converted approximately 23 Bcfe of our PUDs to proved developed - non producing in 2009. These PUDs were associated with our Danny oil reservoir where production commenced in early February 2010.
Costs incurred to develop PUDs totaled $ 53.2 million in 2009, $154.4 million in 2008 and $98.4 million in 2007. All PUD drilling locations are expected to be drilled pursuant with the newly enacted requirements (see “Recent Accounting Rules Activity” above). Accordingly, estimated future development costs related to the development of PUDs are approximately $442 million at December 31, 2009.
For additional information regarding estimates of oil and gas reserves, including estimates of proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in discounted future net cash flows, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 20- Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures.”
Significant Oil and Gas Properties
Our oil and gas properties consist primarily of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases. As of December 31, 2009, we had exploration, development and production operations in the United States, exclusively in the Gulf of Mexico. In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, in which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. In February 2010, we acquired our joint interest partner and as a result we own a 100% interest in the Camelot field. We are now obligated to pay the entire abandonment obligation for the field (estimated to range between $10-15 million). The acquired entity had secured its field abandonment obligations with a $10 million letter of credit which was fully collateralized with cash. Camelot is our only oil and gas property in the United Kingdom.
Our U.S. operations accounted for over 99% of our 2009 production and approximately 98% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2009 (85% of such total reserves are PUDs, PDSI, and PDNP). Further, our proved producing reserves at December 31, 2009 are expected to experience annual decline rates ranging from 30% to 40% over the next ten years. The following table provides a brief description of our domestic and international oil and gas properties we consider most significant to us at December 31, 2009:
United States Offshore
Deepwater
The estimated proved reserves associated with our four fields in the Deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico totaled approximately 341 Bcfe or approximately 59% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2009. We are the operator over areas representing approximately 57% of our Deepwater proved reserves (approximately 43% of total proved reserves). We operate the Phoenix field and portions of the Bushwood field. Gunnison, a non-operated field, has been producing since December 2003. In 2009, we participated in the discovery at the Jake Prospect, which is expected to be developed and commence production in 2011. Our net production from our Deepwater properties totaled approximately 12.3 Bcfe in 2009 as compared to 8 Bcfe in 2008.
Outer Continental Shelf
Our estimated proved reserves for our 102 fields in the Gulf of Mexico on the OCS totaled approximately 225 Bcfe or 39% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2009. Our net production from the OCS properties totaled approximately 31.3 Bcfe in 2009. Our largest field on the OCS is East Cameron Block 346, whose total estimated proved reserve represents approximately 16% of our aggregated OCS estimated proved reserves (or approximately 6% of total estimated proved reserves). The South Timbalier Blocks 86/63 field represents approximately 13% of our total estimated OCS proved reserves (or approximately 5% of our total estimated proved reserves). No other individual OCS field comprised over 5% of total estimated proved reserves. We are the operator of 80% of our OCS properties whose composite estimated proved reserves totals approximately 179 Bcfe.
As long as we continue to have interests in our oil and gas properties, we will continue to advance our development activities and may pursue additional future exploration opportunities primarily in the Deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico.
United Kingdom Offshore
In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, of which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. In February 2010, we acquired our joint interest partner and as a result we own a 100% interest in the Camelot field. We are now obligated to pay the entire abandonment obligation for the field (estimated to range between $10-$15 million). Camelot is our only developed oil and gas property in the United Kingdom. The results of our UK operations were immaterial for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Production, Price and Cost Data
Production, price and cost data for our oil and gas operations in the United States are as follows:
Productive Wells
The number of productive oil and gas wells in which we held interest as of December 31, 2009 is as follows:
Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which we own a working interest. A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well in this table.
The following table summarizes non-producing wells and wells with multiple completions as of December 31, 2009:
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The developed and undeveloped acreage (including both leases and concessions) that we held at December 31, 2009 is as follows:
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assignable to productive wells. A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Included within undeveloped acreage are those leased acres (held by production under the terms of a lease) that are not within the spacing unit containing, or acreage assigned to, the productive well so holding such lease. The current terms of our leases on undeveloped acreage are scheduled to expire as shown in the table below (the terms of a lease may be extended by drilling and production operations):
Drilling Activity
The following table shows the results of oil and gas wells drilled in the United States for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
No wells were drilled in the United Kingdom in 2009, 2008 and 2007.
A productive well is an exploratory or development well that is not a dry hole. A dry hole is an exploratory or development well determined to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well, for purposes of the table above and as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC, is a well drilled within the proved area of a crude oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. Completion refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of crude oil or natural gas, or in the case of a dry hole, to the reporting of abandonment to the appropriate agency.
At December 31, 2009, we had one development well in progress at our Gunnison field. For more information regarding our oil and gas operations see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 6 - Oil and Gas Properties.”
FACILITIES
Our corporate headquarters are located at 400 North Sam Houston Parkway, East, Suite 400, Houston, Texas. We own the Aberdeen (Dyce), Scotland facility and our Spoolbase in Ingleside, Texas. All other facilities are leased.
Properties and Facilities Summary
(1)
Kommandor LLC is a joint venture in which we owned approximately 81% at December 31, 2009. Kommandor LLC is included in our consolidated results as of December 31, 2009.
Item 3.