Item 2.
Properties.
We own a fleet of 41 vessels and 33 ROVs, 4 trenchers, and 2 ROVDrills. We also lease four vessels, one trencher and one ROV. We believe that the market in the Gulf of Mexico requires specially designed and/or equipped vessels to competitively deliver subsea construction and well operations services. Eleven of our vessels have DP capabilities specifically designed to respond to the deepwater market requirements. Fifteen of our vessels (thirteen of which are based in the Gulf of Mexico) have the capability to provide saturation diving services.
Acquisitions in 2007
On December 11, 2007, our majority-owned subsidiary, CDI, completed its previously announced acquisition of Horizon through the merger of Horizon with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of CDI, which resulted in Horizon becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of CDI. Under the terms of the merger, each share of common stock, par value $0.00001 per share, of Horizon was converted into the right to receive $9.25 in cash and 0.625 shares of CDI’s common stock. All shares of Horizon restricted stock that had been issued but had not vested prior to the effective time of the merger became fully vested at the effective time of the merger and converted into the right to receive the merger consideration. CDI issued an aggregate of approximately 20.3 million shares of common stock and paid approximately $300 million in cash in the merger. The cash portion of the merger consideration was paid from CDI’s cash on hand and from borrowings under CDI’s new $675 million credit facility consisting of a $375 million senior secured term loan and a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations “- Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
In July 2007, we acquired the remaining 42% interest in Well Ops SEA Pty Ltd (formerly Seatrac) for total consideration of approximately $10.1 million (see “Note 6 - Other Acquisitions” in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a detailed discussion of Seatrac). We changed the name of the entity to Well Ops SEA Pty Ltd in October 2006 when we purchased the initial 58% interest.
Divestitures in 2007
On September 30, 2007, we sold a 30% working interest in the Phoenix oilfield (Green Canyon Blocks 236/237), the Boris oilfield (Green Canyon Block 282) and the Little Burn oilfield (Green Canyon Block 238) to Sojitz GOM Deepwater, Inc. (“Sojitz”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Sojitz Corporation, for a cash payment of $40 million and the proportionate recovery of all past and future capital expenditures related to the re-development of the fields, excluding the conversion of the Helix Producer I, which we plan to use as a redeployable floating production unit (“FPU”). Proceeds of $51.2 million from the sale were collected in October 2007. Sojitz will also pay its proportionate share of the operating costs including fees payable for the use of the FPU. A gain of approximately $40.4 million was recorded in 2007 as a result of this sale.
In December 2006, we acquired a 100% working interest in the Camelot gas field in the North Sea in exchange for the assumption of certain decommissioning liabilities estimated at approximately $7.6 million. In June 2007, we sold a 50% working interest in this property for approximately $1.8 million cash and the assumption by the purchaser of 50% of the decommissioning liability of approximately $4.0 million. We recognized a gain of approximately $1.6 million as a result of this sale.
OUR VESSELS
Listing of Vessels, Barges and ROVs Related to Contracting Services Operations(1)
(1)
Under government regulations and our insurance policies, we are required to maintain our vessels in accordance with standards of seaworthiness and safety set by government regulations and classification organizations. We maintain our fleet to the standards for seaworthiness, safety and health set by the ABS, Bureau Veritas (“BV”), Det Norske Veritas (“DNV”), Lloyds Register of Shipping (“Lloyds”), and the USCG. The ABS, BV, DNV and Lloyds are classification societies used by ship owners to certify that their vessels meet certain structural, mechanical and safety equipment standards.
(2)
Represents the date we placed the vessel in service and not the date of commissioning.
(3)
Currently under conversion into a deepwater pipelay asset by mid 2008.
(4)
Subject to vessel mortgages securing our Senior Credit Facilities described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 11 - Long-term Debt.”
(5)
Former ferry vessel undergoing conversion into DP floating production unit for initial use on our Phoenix field. See Production Facilities on page 30.
(6)
Expected to complete drilling capabilities upgrade on the vessel in second quarter 2008.
(7)
Subject to vessel mortgage securing our MARAD debt described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 11 - Long-term Debt.”
(8)
Owned and operated by our domestic subsidiary under a secured lien.
(9)
Average age of our fleet of ROVs, trenchers and ROV Drills is approximately 4.07 years.
(10)
Leased.
(11)
Subject to vessel mortgages securing CDI’s $675 million credit facility described in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 11 - Long-term Debt.”
(12)
Expected to be converted in 2008 to full saturation diving capabilities.
In addition to CDI’s saturation diving vessels, CDI currently owns ten portable saturation diving systems, including six acquired from Fraser.
The following table details the average utilization rate for our vessels by category (calculated by dividing the total number of days the vessels in this category generated revenues by the total number of calendar days in the applicable period) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
We incur routine drydock, inspection, maintenance and repair costs pursuant to Coast Guard regulations and in order to maintain our vessels in class under the rules of the applicable class society. In addition to complying with these requirements, we have our own vessel maintenance program that we believe permits us to continue to provide our customers with well maintained, reliable vessels. In the normal course of business, we charter in other vessels on a short-term basis, such as tugboats, cargo barges, utility boats and dive support vessels.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
Through our interest in Deepwater Gateway, L.L.C., a limited liability company in which Enterprise Products Partners L.P. is the other member, we own a 50% interest in the Marco Polo TLP, which was installed on Green Canyon Block 608 in 4,300 feet of water. Deepwater Gateway, L.L.C. was formed to construct, install and own the Marco Polo TLP in order to process production from Anadarko Petroleum Corporation’s Marco Polo field discovery at Green Canyon Block 608. Anadarko required 50,000 barrels of oil per day and 150 million feet per day of processing capacity for Marco Polo. The Marco Polo TLP was designed to process 120,000 barrels of oil per day and 300 million cubic feet of gas per day and payload with space for up to six subsea tie backs.
We also own a 20% interest in Independence Hub, LLC, an affiliate of Enterprise Products Partners L.P., that owns the Independence Hub platform, a 105 foot deep draft, semi-submersible platform located in Mississippi Canyon block 920 in a water depth of 8,000 feet that serves as a regional hub for natural gas production from multiple ultra-Deepwater fields in the previously untapped eastern Gulf of Mexico. First production began in July 2007. The Independence Hub facility is capable of processing 1 billion cubic feet (bcf) per day of gas.
We own a 20% interest in the Gunnison truss spar facility, together with the operator Kerr-McGee Oil & Gas Corporation (“Kerr-McGee”), which owns a 50% interest, and Nexen, Inc., which owns the remaining 30% interest. The Gunnison spar, which is moored in 3,150 feet of water and located on Garden Banks Block 668, has daily production capacity of 40,000 barrels of oil and 200 million cubic feet of gas. This facility is designed with excess capacity to accommodate production from satellite prospects in the area.
Further, in October 2006, we invested $15 million for a 50% interest in Kommandor LLC to convert a ferry vessel into a dynamically-positioned minimal floating production system to be named Helix Producer I. Upon completion of the initial conversion, this vessel will be leased under a bareboat charter to us for further conversion and subsequent use as a floating production system in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, initially for the Phoenix field. Conversion of the vessel is expected to be completed in two phases. The first phase is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2008 for approximately $87 million. The second phase of the conversion is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2008. Estimated cost of conversion for the second phase is approximately $117 million, of which we expect to fund 100%.
SUMMARY OF NATURAL GAS AND OIL RESERVE DATA
We employ full-time experienced reserve engineers and geologists who are responsible for determining proved reserves in conformance with SEC guidelines. Engineering reserve estimates were prepared by us based upon our interpretation of production performance data and sub-surface information derived from the drilling of existing wells. Our internal reservoir engineers and independent petroleum engineers analyzed 100% of our United States oil and gas fields on an annual basis (143 fields as of December 31, 2007). We consider any field with discounted future net revenues of 1% or greater of the total discounted future net revenues of all our fields to be significant. An “engineering audit,” as we use the term, is a process involving an independent petroleum engineering firm’s (Huddleston & Co., Inc. (“Huddleston”)) extensive visits, collection and examination of all geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data requested by the independent petroleum engineering firm. Our use of the term “engineering audit” is intended only to refer to the collective application of the procedures which Huddleston was engaged to perform and may be defined and used differently by other companies.
The engineering audit of our reserves by the independent petroleum engineers involves their rigorous examination of our technical evaluation, interpretation and extrapolations of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines as well as other technical information and measurements. Our internal reservoir engineers interpret this data to determine the nature of the reservoir and ultimately the quantity of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to a specific property. Our proved reserves in this Annual Report include only quantities that we expect to recover commercially using current prices, costs, existing regulatory practices and technology. While we are reasonably certain that the proved reserves will be produced, the timing and ultimate recovery can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and changes in projections of long-term oil and gas prices. Revisions can include upward or downward changes in the previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data or (2) new geologic or reservoir data obtained from wells. Revisions can also include changes associated with significant changes in development strategy, oil and gas prices, or the related production equipment/facility capacity. Huddleston also examined our estimates with respect to reserve categorization, using the definitions for proved reserves set forth in Regulation S-X Rule 4-10(a) and subsequent SEC staff interpretations and guidance.
In the conduct of the engineering audit, Huddleston did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties or sales of production. However, if in the course of the examination something came to the attention of Huddleston which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, Huddleston did not rely on such information or data until they had satisfactorily resolved their questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. Furthermore, in instances where decline curve analysis was not adequate in determining proved producing reserves, Huddleston evaluated our volumetric analysis, which included the analysis of production and pressure data. Each of the PUDs analyzed by Huddleston included volumetric analysis, which took into consideration recovery factors relative to the geology of the location and similar reservoirs. Where applicable, Huddleston examined data related to well spacing, including potential drainage from offsetting producing wells in evaluating proved reserves for un-drilled well locations.
The engineering audit by Huddleston included 100% of our producing properties together with a percentage of our non-producing and undeveloped properties. Properties for analysis were selected by us and Huddleston based on discounted future net revenues. All of our significant properties were included in the engineering audit and such audited properties constituted 97% of the total discounted future net revenues. Huddleston audited approximately 96% of our total reserve base in the United States, including what was deemed to be the most valuable properties. Huddleston audited 92% of proved developed reserves and 98% of the proved undeveloped reserves totaling 96% of both categories combined. Huddleston also analyzed the methods utilized by us in the preparation of all of the estimated reserves and revenues. Huddleston represents in its audit report that they believe our methodologies are consistent with the methodologies required by the SEC, Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and FASB. There were no limitations imposed, nor limitations encountered by us or Huddleston.
The table below sets forth information, as of December 31, 2007, with respect to estimates of net proved reserves. Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because the estimation of reserves involves numerous judgmental determinations. Accordingly, reserve estimates must be continually revised as a result of new information obtained from drilling and production history, new geological and geophysical data and changes in economic conditions.
For additional information regarding estimates of oil and gas reserves, including estimates of proved and proved developed reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in discounted future net cash flows, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 21- Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures.”
Significant Oil and Gas Properties
Our oil and gas properties consist primarily of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases. As of December 31, 2007, we had exploration, development and production operations in the United States, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico. In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, in which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. This is our only oil and gas property in the United Kingdom.
Our U.S. operations accounted for 99% of our 2007 production and approximately 98% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2007 (79% of such total reserves are PUDs and PDNP). Further, our proved producing reserves at December 31, 2007 are expected to experience annual decline rates ranging from 30% to 40% over the next ten years. The following table provides a brief description of our domestic and international oil and gas properties we consider most significant to us at December 31, 2007:
(1)
Garden Banks 506 (formerly Noonan/Danny).
(2)
Green Canyon blocks 236, 237, 238 and 282.
(3)
An outside operated property comprised of Garden Banks blocks 625, 667, 668 and 669.
(4)
Atwater Valley block 426.
(5)
Consists of our only property in the United Kingdom, Camelot.
United States Offshore
Deepwater
We have proved reserves of approximately 304 Bcfe in five fields in the Gulf of Mexico Deepwater which comprised approximately 45% of our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2007. The working interests in these fields range from 17.5% to 100%. We are the operator of two of the five fields, which comprised approximately 82% of our Deepwater proved reserves (approximately 37% of total proved reserves). Gunnison, a non-operated field, has been producing since December 2003. Our net production in Deepwater totaled approximately 13 Bcfe in 2007. We continue to be active in Deepwater with an ongoing exploration and development program.
Outer Continental Shelf
We have proved reserves of approximately 336 Bcfe in over 130 fields in the Gulf of Mexico on the OCS which comprised approximately 50% of total proved reserves as of December 31, 2007. Our net production on the OCS totaled approximately 50 Bcfe in 2007. The working interests in our OCS fields range from 3% to 100%. Our largest field based on proved reserves is East Cameron 346, with approximately 11% of OCS reserves (approximately 6% of total proved reserves). No other individual OCS field comprised over 5% of total proved reserves. We are the operator of 75% of our OCS proved reserves. We continue to be active on the OCS with an ongoing exploration and development program. Based on current market conditions, we plan to drill approximately 11 wells on the OCS in 2008.
United States Onshore
We have proved reserves of approximately 22 Bcfe in over 17 onshore fields in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Texas, with net production totaling approximately two Bcfe in 2007. Our U.S. onshore proved reserves comprised approximately 3% of total proved reserves as of December 31, 2007. The working interests in our onshore properties range from 7% to 93.6%. We are not the operator of most of the onshore fields. One onshore non-operated field (Parker Creek) in Mississippi comprised over 71% of our U.S. onshore reserves, but only
approximately 2% of our total proved reserves. There are no significant developments scheduled for the onshore fields.
United Kingdom Offshore
In December 2006, we acquired the Camelot field, located in the North Sea, in which we subsequently sold a 50% interest in June 2007. This is our only oil and gas property in the United Kingdom.
Production, Price and Cost Data
Production, price and cost data for our oil and gas operations in the United States are as follows:
No production data is available for our oil and gas operations in the United Kingdom in 2005 and 2006 as we acquired Camelot in December 2006 (which was not then producing). Production in 2007 was insignificant (0.3 Bcfe of gas).
Productive Wells
The number of productive oil and gas wells in which we held interest as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:
Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned. A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well in this table.
The following table summarizes multiple completions and non-producing wells as of December 31, 2007:
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The developed and undeveloped acreage (including both leases and concessions) that we held at December 31, 2007 is as follows:
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assignable to productive wells. A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Included within undeveloped acreage are those leased acres (held by production under the terms of a lease) that are not within the spacing unit containing, or acreage assigned to, the productive well so holding such lease. The current terms of our leases on undeveloped acreage are scheduled to expire as shown in the table below (the terms of a lease may be extended by drilling and production operations):
Drilling Activity
The following table shows the results of oil and gas wells drilled in the United States for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
No wells were drilled in the United Kingdom in 2007, 2006 and 2005.
A productive well is an exploratory or development well that is not a dry hole. A dry hole is an exploratory or development well determined to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well, for purposes of the table above and as defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC, is a well drilled within the proved area of a crude oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. Completion refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of crude oil or natural gas, or in the case of a dry hole, to the reporting of abandonment to the appropriate agency.
At December 31, 2007, our oil and gas operations were completing one development well and one exploration well. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data “- Note 7 - Oil and Gas Properties.” These wells are located in the Gulf of Mexico.
FACILITIES
Our corporate headquarters are located at 400 N. Sam Houston Parkway E., Suite 400, Houston, Texas. The corporate headquarters of CDI are located at 2500 CityWest Boulevard, Suite 2200, Houston Texas. Our primary subsea and marine services operations are based in Port of Iberia, Louisiana. We own the Aberdeen (Dyce), Scotland facility and CDI owns approximately 61/2 acres of the Port of Iberia, Louisiana facility and its Port Arthur and Sabine, Texas facilities. All other facilities are leased.
Properties and Facilities Summary
(1)
Kommandor LLC is a joint venture in which we owned 50% at December 31, 2007. Kommandor LLC is included in our consolidated results as of December 31, 2007.
(2)
Cal Dive International, Inc. is our Shelf Contracting subsidiary, of which we owned 58.5% at December 31, 2007.
Item 3.