ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
The Horizon Mine
The Company’s only currently operating coal mining operation is the Horizon Mine. The Company maintains office space at 3266 South 125 West, Price, Utah for general administrative purposes. The Company maintains its corporate offices at 57 West 200 South, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Consumers Road Property
In January 2009, we acquired real and personal property in Carbon County, Utah, as follows:
1.
Three (3) buildings and fixtures used for record storage, mine support facilities, an equipment maintenance shop, training center, etc., collectively called the “Consumers Road Property,” located on approximately 35 acres of land owned by the United States for which we hold possession under Right-of-Way UTU-49754 granted by the Bureau of Land Management.
2.
An interest in the following described parcel of land: “NW¼SW¼ of Section 26, T15S, R8E, SLM, containing 40.00 acres more or less”, a parcel which we refer to as the “South 40 Parcel.”
We intend to use the Consumers Road Property for office and shop support for our coal mine operations at the Horizon Mine. We are exploring alternative uses for the South 40 Parcel.
The location and means of access to the Horizon Mine.
The Horizon Mine is located approximately 11 miles West of Helper, Carbon County, Utah. The mine property abuts a county road known as Consumers Road which allows vehicular access to the mine and allows transportation of coal from the mine.
The Company’s right to operate the Horizon Mine.
Hidden Splendor operates the Horizon Mine pursuant to an operating permit issued by the Utah Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil, Gas and Mining. Hidden Splendor’s permit number in this regard is C/007/0020. The permit allows Hidden Splendor to mine within the entire area subject to a federal coal lease Hidden Splendor owns. That federal coal lease, lease no. U-74804, covers coal in an area of approximately 2,640 acres located in Township 13 South, Range 8 East, Salt Lake Base Meridian. Hidden Splendor owns fee title to approximately 80 acres of that acreage and the coal beneath the land Hidden Splendor owns is fee coal which Hidden Splendor owns and upon which Hidden Splendor pays no royalties. Thus, Hidden Splendor mines the coal within the area of its operating permit either by right of outright ownership of that coal or by right of the federal coal lease which Hidden Splendor owns.
In order to maintain its federal lease the Company must meet certain diligence requirements. In this regard, the Company must mine approximately 60,000 tons of coal each year over a 10 year period and the Company has the entire 10 year period to meet that total amount. Accordingly, our operations to date have been more than sufficient to meet this obligation.
Previous operations of the Horizon Mine
According to the operating history for the Horizon Mine compiled by the Mine Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor, the Horizon mine had four operators prior to Hidden Splendor. From April 1, 1992 to April 19, 1995, the mine was operated by an entity known as Blue Blaze Coal Company. From April 20, 1995 to August 28, 1997, it was operated by Horizon Coal Corp. From August 29, 1997 to July 14, 1999, it was operated by Horizon Mining, LLC. From July 15, 1999 to March 23, 2003, it was operated by Lodestar Energy, Inc. Hidden Splendor purchased the operations of the Horizon Mine out of the bankruptcy of Lodestar in March of 2003 and has been operating the Horizon Mine since that time.
According to the mine overview data compiled by MSHA in connection with the Horizon Mine, the following number of tons have been mined from the Horizon Mine in the years shown:
*Average sales price per ton is not disclosed, as the revenues for the period are unaudited.
The modernization and physical condition of the plant and equipment.
Management believes the surface facilities at the mine were installed beginning in early 1990’s. Components to such facilities have been upgraded over time. For example, we have made additions to the mine office and bathhouse facility in both 2005 and again in 2007 in order to accommodate the growing number of employees. Those facilities were originally installed in 1995.
Also, in 2003 a crushing unit was added to the beltline by the Company in order to properly size the coal mined. Properly sizing the coal is crucial for coal sales, as our coal sales agreements have had requirements regarding the size of the coal purchased.
In 2004, the Company purchased significant additional equipment to continue mining operations at the Horizon Mine. Such equipment included a rebuilt continuous miner, two rebuilt shuttle cars, a rebuilt roof bolter, a new battery scoop and additional attendant equipment. All such equipment has improved operations and remains in adequate operating condition. Nonetheless, management is of the opinion that at a minimum, additional roof bolting equipment is necessary to support the expanded operations at the mine. Management has identified other necessary equipment as well, but is concerned with the adequacy of the roof bolting equipment on hand to keep up with expanded operations. While the two current roof bolting machines at the mine operate properly, they are slow moving and can only keep up with mining operations involving one continuous miner. In 2007, a third roof bolting machine did not perform as expected and did not support mining operations behind the Company’s second continuous miner. The manufacturer of that equipment has attempted to remedy the problems with that roof bolter, but it has not functioned within reasonable standards. The Company encountered numerous minor and major equipment breakdowns during 2008 and through mid-2009, which delayed production intermittently. In July 2009, the Company rebuilt and deployed a continuous miner, resulting in more efficient, consistent production. The Company purchased and deployed a second continuous miner in the first quarter of 2011. The Company intends to purchase a third miner during the second quarter of 2011, pending the successful raise of capital.
The Company’s proposed program for development of the property
The Company’s proposed plan for the continued development of the Horizon Mine involves continued operation of a room and pillar mining operation. A room-and-pillar operation involves creating a network of interconnected tunnels in the coal seam. These tunnels result from the excavation of a series of “rooms” into the coal bed, leaving “pillars” or columns of coal to help support the mine roof. The rooms and pillars create what on a map looks like a series of city streets and blocks, with the streets being the open rooms and the blocks being the pillars of coal.
Considerable time and materials are utilized in what is known as “development” mining in order to assure that the roof in the open areas of the mine is secure and supported. Development mining simply refers to the mining phase in which the series of rooms and pillars is created, or developed. Room-and-pillar mining also involves the removal of the pillars of coal from areas of the mine which have been fully developed. We refer to this kind of mining as “pillaring” or “MRS extraction of pillar coal.” Pillaring involves the use of mechanized roof support equipment known as mobile roof supports, or “MRSs,” to support the roof of the mine while some of the pillars of coal are removed. MRSs are large track-driven, hydraulic canopies which are remotely operated. The use of MRSs in pillaring replaced an older method of retreat mining which involved supporting the roof of a mine with wooden posts only as pillars were removed. That method did not afford the same level of safety which MRS pillar extraction affords.
Pillaring involves backing out of a section of the mine as the pillars in that section are removed. Because the pillars are being removed from the section, time and materials are not utilized to maintain the roof in that area of the mine to the same extent they are used in development mining. The roof is maintained by the MRSs which monitor the stress pushing down from the roof. The roof of the area in which pillaring takes place is not maintained because as pillars are removed that roof falls in the area after the MRS units are remotely removed and that area of the mine is sealed off and abandoned. Once the panel is fully created, pillaring takes place and the pillars are removed from the panel. Once pillaring in a panel is completed, another panel is developed.
A continuous miner cuts the coal from the seam and places it in shuttle cars, which take the coal from the continuous miner to the conveyor belts. The conveyer belts then move the coal out of the mine where the coal is crushed to size and piled for loading into trucks. Our operations end with loading the coal into trucks on the mine site.
Since August 2003, we primarily have operated the Horizon Mine as what is known as a “one-section” mine. That is, we mine in one area of the mine at any one time using one continuous miner, two shuttle cars and attendant equipment. Thus, all of our production comes from operating one set of mining equipment in one area of the mine. As a one-section mine, any problem we have encountered has had a significantly adverse effect on production. For example, when we have encountered a fault in the coal seam which has displaced the seam either up or down by several feet, we have had to spend time mining through the faulted area to reach the seam past the fault. We have spent just as much time and used just as much material mining through the fault, but we have mined no coal.
In 2007, we attempted to operate the mine as a “two-section” mine. That is, we mined coal in two areas of the mine at the same time. Optimally, we would like one section to be pillaring a developed panel while in another section a panel is being developed. Because development mining involves significant roof support efforts and often discovers problem areas in the mine, such as faults in the coal seam or inflows of water, development mining is slower and more capital intensive than pillaring. By operating two sections, the Company can blend the two types of mining and will have the flexibility to deal with adverse conditions which may affect mining in any one section. Operations as a two-section mine in 2007 were unsuccessful in large part because of the non-performance of equipment we obtained and a lack of capital to support operations.
Beginning in late May 2008, we again began operating the mine as a two-section mine. Due to equipment breakdowns, we were unable to operate in two sections consistently for the remainder of 2008. In July 2009, we deployed a rebuilt continuous miner, resulting in more efficient, consistent production. We acquired and deployed a second continuous miner during first quarter 2011 to enable the mine to begin operating in two sections with the goal to expand to three sections during second quarter 2011, subject to obtaining sufficient financing.
Current operations of the Horizon Mine.
The federal coal lease the Company has obtained covers coal which lies under approximately 1,640 acres of land in Carbon County, Utah. The surface rights to most all of the land in which the leased coal lies are owned by private landowners. The Horizon Mine is an underground, slope mine. At present, adequate surface facilities are in place at the mine site to support underground mining operations which take place at the mine. The surface facilities of the Horizon Mine operation are located on property owned by the Company.
Those surface facilities include a mine office and bathhouse facility, a storage trailer, the portals which lead to the underground operations of the mine, a conveyer belt structure which moves coal from the underground operations to the surface, a crushing unit which sizes the coal mined and a stacking tube around which the coal mined is stacked on the surface. All structures on the surface are in good operating condition. The surface operations cover approximately 8.9 acres of land.
Underground operations currently extend a total of more than two miles underground when measured traveling from the surface entrance of the mine to the farthest working area in the mine. Underground operations at the Horizon Mine are “room and pillar” operations. The Company’s operations at the Horizon Mine are in the Production Stage, as that term is defined by Industry Guide No. 7 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with Item 102 Disclosure under Regulation S-B. That is, the Company is engaged in the exploitation of a mineral deposit, or more simply, we actually are mining coal.
The Horizon Mine is currently operational, producing “compliant” thermal coal. Coal mined at the Horizon Mine is located in what is known as the Hiawatha Coal Seam located in the Wasatch Plateau Coal Field. The average height of the seam as it runs through the mine is approximately seven feet. Typical raw coal quality (including dilution) has the following general characteristics:
Moisture
7.56%
Ash
9.87%
Volatile Mater
41.75%
Fixed Carbon
65.31%
Sulfur
0.55%
Btu/pound
11,946
Hardgrove Index
Free Swelling Index
2.5
A continuous miner cuts the coal from the seam and places it in shuttle cars, which take the coal from the continuous miner to the conveyor belts. The conveyor belts then move the coal out of the mine where the coal is crushed to size and piled for loading into trucks. Coal mined from the Horizon Mine is loaded into trucks which haul the coal either directly to end users of the coal or to distribution facilities known as “loadouts” where the coal is loaded into rail cars and transported via rail to customers. The Horizon Mine is located approximately 8 miles from the nearest loadout facility and approximately 16 miles from the loadout facility most commonly used to ship our coal to end users.
The Horizon Mine coal was sold at an average price of approximately $36 per ton and $46 per ton during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The lower cost sales price per ton during 2010 is due to the Company having to sell a portion of its coal production at lower spot prices during the first and second quarter of 2010, as the Company did not have long-term sales contracts until the summer of 2010. Spot prices for coal in the western United States were lower in early 2010 due to lower demand in accordance with market conditions. The Company’s average sales price per ton under existing sales contracts is approximately $38 per ton.
The Company's average production cost per ton sold, excluding mine development costs, of coal for the year ended December 31, 2010 was approximately $30 per ton. Production costs per ton were extraordinarily during the year due to the Company having to intermittently idle the mine during the first and second quarters of 2010 due to lower demand of coal in the western United States. As a result, the fixed costs of maintaining the Horizon Mine in the idle state at various during times during early 2010, combined with the lower production during that period, resulted in an escalated production cost per ton. Since that time, the Company believes it has mitigated this risk by signing long-term sales contracts, and thus, does not anticipate similar extraordinary circumstances in 2011. As production escalates, we believe that the production cost per ton should significantly decrease as a result of economies of scale.
Management's plan is to escalate production to an average of 60,000 tons per month during second quarter 2011 by operating its second continuous miner. The Company estimates it will achieve cash positive operations at an average of 60,000 tons of production per month. In addition, the Company plans to lease or acquire and deploy a third continuous miner, a shuttle car, and other key equipment to enable the Horizon Mine to operate as a three-section mine during the second quarter of 2011. With these equipment additions/upgrades and logistical adjustments, we expect monthly production to increase. Our ability to raise additional capital will determine whether we can purchase this additional equipment, the failure of which will adversely affect our financial condition.
The current state of development of the property
Currently the Company has mined approximately 1.6 million tons of coal from the leased and permitted area in which our reserves are located. We have obtained an estimate from a third party engineering firm which indicates that there were approximately 16.3 million tons of proven reserves of recoverable coal in that leased and permitted area as of December 31, 2010. This tonnage meets SEC definition of “proven” reserves as set forth by SEC Guide 7. Per SEC Guide 7, proven reserves are defined as “Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established under SEC Guide 7”. Our company has relied upon, among other data points, drill hole data with spacing of ¼ mile in estimating the recoverable reserves under lease. Such estimates are revised as actual mining reveals more accurate information about the coal seams, thickness, quality of coal and locations of obstacles to mining such as faults or rock intrusions into the seam.
Management estimates there are in excess of 100 million tons of additional recoverable coal reserves adjacent to the Horizon Mine that are controlled by Carbon County and the BLM. In March 2009, the BLM granted the Company a lease modification to access and lease approximately 6.8 million tons of proven reserves of recoverable coal from the adjacent reserves. The Company intends to pursue additional adjacent reserves by negotiating with officials of Carbon County and the BLM.
The modernization and physical condition of the plant and equipment.
Management believes the surface facilities at the mine were installed beginning in early 1990’s. Components to such facilities have been upgraded over time. For example, we have made additions to the mine office and bathhouse facility in both 2005 and again in 2007 in order to accommodate the growing number of employees. Those facilities were originally installed in 1995.
Also, in 2003 a crushing unit was added to the beltline by the Company in order to properly size the coal mined. Properly sizing the coal is crucial for coal sales, as our coal sales agreements have had requirements regarding the size of the coal purchased.
In 2004, the Company purchased significant additional equipment to continue mining operations at the Horizon Mine. Such equipment included a rebuilt continuous miner, two rebuilt shuttle cars, a rebuilt roof bolter, a new battery scoop and additional attendant equipment. All such equipment has improved operations and remains in adequate operating condition. Nonetheless, management is of the opinion that at a minimum, additional roof bolting equipment is necessary to support the expanded operations at the mine. Management has identified other necessary equipment as well, but is concerned with the adequacy of the roof bolting equipment on hand to keep up with expanded operations. While the two current roof bolting machines at the mine operate properly, they are slow moving and can only keep up with mining operations involving one continuous miner. In 2007, a third roof bolting machine did not perform as expected and did not support mining operations behind the Company’s second continuous miner. The manufacturer of that equipment has attempted to remedy the problems with that roof bolter, but it has not functioned within reasonable standards. The Company encountered numerous minor and major equipment breakdowns during 2008 and through mid-2009, which delayed production intermittently. In July 2009, the Company rebuilt and deployed a continuous miner, resulting in more efficient, consistent production. The Company has purchased a second continuous miner, which it plans to deploy in the first quarter of 2011. The Company has identified a third miner for purchase, which it plans to purchase and deploy during the second quarter of 2011, pending the successful raise of capital.
Description of the rock formations and mineralization of existing or potential economic significance on the property.
Coal mined at the Horizon Mine is located in what is known as the Hiawatha Coal Seam located in the Wasatch Plateau Coal Field. The average height of the seam as it runs through the mine is approximately seven feet. The coal we extract at the Horizon Mine generally has a BTU value of between 11,500 and 11,800 BTUs/lb. Analysis of the coal produced at the Horizon Mine in August of 2006 has shown BTU levels as high as 12,600. Ash levels in coal substantially affect the value of coal. As it sits in place in the Hiawatha Seam, coal at the Horizon Mine contains ash at levels from 8% to 9%. Mining of the coal can increase ash levels if the rock above or below the coal seam is mined and mixed with the coal taken from the seam, and our ash levels generally test out at 8% to 15%, though conditions in the mine over the last couple of years have seen higher ash levels. As stated above, reports provided to us indicate that there are at least 16.1 million tons of proven reserves of recoverable coal remaining in our leased and permitted operations. We believe this estimate is conservative. Additional tonnage, though not leased by us at this time, is in reserves adjacent to our operation.
Glossary of Terms.
Certain terms used in this Report are specific to the coal mining industry and may be technical in nature. The following is a list of selected mining terms and the definitions generally attributed to them when we use them throughout this document. In most cases, but not all, the following definitions generally are those used by the Energy Information Administration. The definitions of some terms, especially those associated with “reserves,” are taken from Industry Guide No. 7 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with Item 102 Disclosure under Regulation S-B.
Ash: Impurities consisting of silica, iron, alumina, and other incombustible matter that are contained in coal. Ash increases the weight of coal, adds to the cost of handling, and can affect the burning characteristics. Ash content is measured as a percent by weight of coal on an "as received" or a "dry" (moisture-free) basis.
Bureau of Land Management (BLM): An agency within the United States Department of the Interior which administers U.S. public lands, including subsurface mineral estate underlying federal, state and private lands.
BTU (British thermal unit): The amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of 1 pound of water by 1 degree Fahrenheit. The BTU is a convenient measure by which to compare the energy content of various fuels.
Coal: A readily combustible black or brownish-black rock whose composition, including inherent moisture, consists of more than 50 percent by weight and more than 70 percent by volume of carbonaceous material. It is formed from plant remains that have been compacted, hardened, chemically altered, and metamorphosed by heat and pressure over geologic time.
Coalbed: A bed or stratum of coal. Also called a coal seam.
Coke: A solid carbonaceous residue derived from low-ash, low-sulfur bituminous coal from which the volatile constituents are driven off by baking in an oven at temperatures as high as 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit so that the fixed carbon and residual ash are fused together. Coke is used as a fuel and as a reducing agent in smelting iron ore in a blast furnace. Coke from coal is grey, hard, and porous and has a heating value of 24.8 million BTU per short ton.
Compliance Coal: A coal or a blend of coals that meets sulfur dioxide emission standards for air quality without the need for flue gas desulphurization.
Continuous Mining: A form of room-and-pillar mining in which a continuous mining machine extracts and removes coal from the working face in one operation; no blasting is required.
Continuous Miner: A machine used in underground mining to cut coal from the seam and load it onto conveyors or into shuttle cars in a continuous operation.
Conventional Mining: The oldest form of room-and-pillar mining which consists of a series of operations that involve cutting the coal bed so it breaks easily when blasted with explosives or high-pressure air, and then loading the broken coal.
EIA: The Energy Information Administration. An independent agency within the U.S. Department of Energy that develops surveys, collects energy data, and analyzes and models energy issues. The Agency must meet the requests of Congress, other elements within the Department of Energy, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Executive Branch, its own independent needs, and assist the general public, or other interest groups, without taking a policy position.
Federal Coal Lease: A lease granted to a mining company to produce coal from land owned and administered by the Federal Government in exchange for royalties and other revenues.
F.O.B. Mine Price: The free on board mine price. This is the price paid for coal at the mining operation site. It excludes freight or shipping and insurance costs.
Loadout: A central facility used in loading coal for transportation by rail.
Longwall Mining: An automated form of underground coal mining characterized by high recovery and extraction rates, feasible only in relatively flat-lying, thick, and uniform coal beds. A high-powered cutting machine is passed across the exposed face of coal, shearing away broken coal, which is continuously hauled away by a floor-level conveyor system. Longwall mining extracts all machine-mineable coal between the floor and ceiling within a contiguous block of coal, known as a panel, leaving no support pillars within the panel area. Longwall mining is done under movable roof supports that are advanced as the bed is cut. The roof in the mined-out area is allowed to fall as the mining advances.
Low-sulfur Coal: Coal which, when burned, emits 1.6 pounds or less of sulfur dioxide per million Btus.
Mineable: Capable of being mined under current mining technology and environmental and legal restrictions, rules, and regulations.
Probable reserves: Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced.
Proven reserves: Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
Reclamation: The restoration of land and environmental values to a mining site after the coal is extracted. The process commonly includes “recontouring” or shaping the land to its approximate original appearance, restoring topsoil and planting native grass and ground covers.
Recoverable Coal: Coal that is, or can be, extracted from a coal bed during mining.
Recoverable Reserves of Coal: An estimate of the amount of coal that can be recovered (mined) from the accessible reserves of the demonstrated reserve base.
Reserve: That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
Room-and-Pillar Mining: The traditional method of underground mining in which the mine roof is supported mainly by coal pillars left at regular intervals. Rooms are places where the coal is mined; pillars are areas of coal left between the rooms. Room-and-pillar mining is done either by conventional or continuous mining.
Seam: A bed of coal lying between a roof and floor. Equivalent term to bed, commonly used by industry.
Slope Mine: An underground mine in which the entry is driven at an angle to reach the coal deposit.
Steam Coal: All non-metallurgical coal.
Underground Mine: A mine where coal is produced by tunneling into the earth to the coal bed, which is then mined with underground mining equipment such as cutting machines and continuous, longwall, and shortwall mining machines. Underground mines are classified according to the type of opening used to reach the coal, i.e., drift (level tunnel), slope (inclined tunnel), or shaft (vertical tunnel).
Underground Mining: The extraction of coal or its products from between enclosing rock strata by underground mining methods, such as room and pillar, longwall, and shortwall, or through in-situ gasification.
Investment Policies.
Hidden Splendor’s operations are focused on the production of coal and participation in the coal industry. Accordingly, the Company has no particular policy regarding each of the following types of investments:
(1) Investments in real estate or interests in real estate;
(2) Investments in real estate mortgages; or
(3) Securities of or interests in persons primarily engaged in real estate activities.
Description of Real Estate and Operating Data.
Hidden Splendor has no real estate in which the book value amounts to 10% or more of the Company’s total assets.
ITEM 3.