Item 2. Properties
Exploratory and Developmental Acreage
Our principal oil and gas properties consist of producing and non-producing oil and gas leases, including reserves of oil and gas in place. The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped acreage and fee mineral acreage as of December 31, 2014.
(1)
Fee mineral acreage represents fee simple absolute ownership of the mineral estate or fraction thereof.
(2)
Includes 1,217 net acres in the Permian Basin region that are included in both developed and fee mineral acres.
The flowing table sets forth Abraxas’ net undeveloped acreage subject to expire in year:
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our gross and net productive wells, expressed separately for oil and gas, as of December 31, 2014:
Reserves Information
The estimation and disclosure requirements we employ conform to the definition of proved reserves with the Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting rules, which were issued by the SEC at the end of 2008. This accounting standard requires that the average first-day-of-the-month price during the 12-month period preceding the end of the year be used when estimating reserve quantities and permits the use of reliable technologies to determine proved reserves, if those technologies have been demonstrated to result in reliable conclusions about reserves volumes.
For the year ended December 31, 2014, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, of Dallas, Texas estimated reserves for Abraxas’ properties comprising approximately 99% of the PV-10 of our proved oil and gas reserves. Proved reserves for the remaining 1% of our properties were estimated by Abraxas personnel because we determined that it was not practical for DeGolyer and MacNaughton to prepare reserve estimates for these properties as they are located in a widely dispersed geographic area and have relatively low value. DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s reserve report as of December 31, 2014 included a total of 318 properties and our internal report included 302 properties.
The technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at DeGolyer and MacNaughton meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. DeGolyer and MacNaughton is an independent firm of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists. They do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed on a contingent fee basis. All reports by DeGolyer and MacNaughton were developed utilizing their own geological and engineering data, supplemented by data provided by Abraxas. The report of DeGolyer and MacNaughton dated February 11, 2015, which contains further discussions of the reserve estimates and evaluations prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton as well as the qualifications of DeGolyer and MacNaughton’s technical personnel responsible for overseeing such estimates and evaluations is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Estimates of reserves at December 31, 2014 were based on studies performed by the engineering department of Abraxas which is directly responsible for Abraxas’ reserve evaluation process. The Vice President of Engineering manages this department and is the primary technical person responsible for this process. The Vice President of Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering and is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas; he has 36 years of experience in reserve evaluations. The operations department of Abraxas assisted in the process. Reserve information as well as models used to estimate such reserves are stored on secured databases. Non-technical inputs used in reserve estimation models, include oil and gas prices, production costs, future capital expenditures and Abraxas’ net ownership percentages which are obtained from other departments within Abraxas.
Oil and gas reserves and the estimates of the present value of future net revenues therefrom were determined based on prices and costs as prescribed by SEC and FASB guidelines. Reserve calculations involve the estimate of future net recoverable reserves of oil and gas and the timing and amount of future net revenues to be received therefrom. Such estimates are not precise and are based on assumptions regarding a variety of factors, many of which are variable and uncertain. Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of oil and gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed oil and gas reserves are those expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC and the FASB, which require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing economic and operating conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations or de-escalations except by contractual arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2014, commodity prices over the prior 12-month period and year end costs were used in estimating future net cash flows.
The following table sets forth certain information regarding estimates of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2014. All of our reserves are located in the United States.
Our estimates of proved developed reserves, proved undeveloped reserves, and total proved reserves at December 31, 2012, 2013, and 2014, and changes in proved reserves during the last three years are presented in the Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures under Item 8 of this Report. Also presented in the Supplemental Information are our estimates of future net cash flows and discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves.
We have not filed information with a federal authority or agency with respect to our estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2014. We report gross proved reserves of operated properties in the United States to the U.S. Department of Energy on an annual basis; these reported reserves are derived from the same data used to estimate and report proved reserves in this Report.
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and involves decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves set forth or incorporated by reference in this report. We may also adjust estimates of reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, estimates of oil and gas reserves, future net revenue from reserves and the PV-10 thereof for the oil and gas properties described in this report are based on the assumption that future oil and gas prices remain the same as oil and gas prices utilized in the December 31, 2014 report. The average realized sales prices used for purposes of such estimates were $87.11 per Bbl of oil and $5.15 per Mcf of gas. It is also assumed that we will make future capital expenditures of approximately $557.8 million in the aggregate primarily in the years 2015 through 2019, which are necessary to develop and realize the value of proved reserves on our properties. Any significant variance in actual results from these assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth herein.
You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are calculated using the average first-day-of-the-month price over the prior 12-month period. Costs used in the estimated discounted future net cash flows are costs as of the end of the period. Because we use the full cost method to account for our oil and gas operations, we are susceptible to significant non-cash charges during times of volatile commodity prices because the full cost pool may be impaired when prices are low. This is known as a “ceiling limitation write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities but does reduce our stockholders’ equity and reported earnings. We have experienced ceiling limitation write-downs in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience additional ceiling limitation write-downs in the future. As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the present value of our estimated proved reserves. If commodity prices remain at depressed levels or decrease further, we could be required to write down the carrying value of our reserves during 2015 which would also reduce our net income.
For more information regarding the full cost method of accounting, you should read the information under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies.”
Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs used in the estimate. Any changes in consumption by gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. Our effective interest rate on borrowings at various times and the risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Changes in PUDs. Significant changes to PUDs occurring during 2014 are summarized in the table below. Revisions of prior estimates reflect the addition of new PUDs associated with current development plans, revisions to prior PUDs, revisions to infill drilling development plans, as well as the transfer of PUDs to unproved reserve categories due to changes in development plans during the period. Our year-end development plans are consistent with SEC guidelines for PUDs development within five years
unless specific circumstances warrant a longer development time horizon. There are no PUDs as of December 31, 2014, included in this report that are not planned to be developed within five years.
We spent approximately $137.9 million converting proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves in 2014. We added approximately 4.6MMBOE in net proved undeveloped reserves as the result of revisions in the Bakken PUD projections based on existing well performance. We added approximately 8.6 MMBOE in additional Bakken downspaced locations proved through drilling results in 2014. Additionally 5.2 MMBOE representing twenty 2013 PUD cases were drilled and completed in 2014 and moved to proved producing.
For the period ending December 31, 2014, proved producing reserves were increased by approximately 4.4 MMBoe, net, due primarily to the completion of 20 new wells during 2014. Ten of these new wells were located on the Company’s North Fork prospect acreage in McKenzie County, North Dakota, and ten were located on various acreage tracts in the Eagle Ford play of Atascosa and McMullen Counties, Texas. The Company also added 28 new Bakken proved undeveloped down-spaced locations on the Company’s North Fork and Pershing prospect acreage in McKenzie County, North Dakota. These locations were added based on the Company’s successful test of down-spacing from 1320 feet between wells in the same zone to 660 feet. Reserves attributable to these new down-spaced locations amounted to approximately 7.7 MMBoe, net. The Company also gained approximately 1.1 MMBoe of net proved undeveloped reserves in the Bakken due to upward revisions in its Bakken type curve, which curve is used to forecast results on undeveloped locations. These upward revisions were attributable to better-than-anticipated results in the Company’s existing Bakken producing wells. The Company also gained proved undeveloped reserves of approximately 2.3 MMBbls of oil, net, due to the change in classification of ten probable undeveloped Bakken cases into the proved category. These locations achieved proved status by virtue of offsetting development activity during 2014. An equivalent volume of reserves was removed from the probable undeveloped category as a result of this change in classification.
Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to PV-10
PV-10 is the estimated present value of the future net revenues from our proved oil and gas reserves before income taxes discounted using a 10% discount rate. PV-10 is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations because it does not include the effects of future income taxes, as is required in computing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. We believe that PV-10 is an important measure that can be used to evaluate the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that PV-10 is widely used by securities analysts and investors when evaluating oil and gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. We believe that most other companies in the oil and gas industry calculate PV-10 on the same basis. PV-10 is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting income taxes.
The following table provides a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at December 31, 2013 and 2014:
Oil and Gas Production, Sales Prices and Production Costs
The following table presents our net oil, gas and NGL production, the average sales price per Bbl of oil and NGLs and per Mcf of gas produced and the average cost of production per Boe of production sold, for the three years ended December 31 by our major operating regions:
__________________
(1)
Oil and gas were combined by converting gas to a Boe equivalent on the basis of 6 Mcf of gas to 1 Bbl of oil.
(2)
Before the impact of hedging activities.
(3)
Production costs include controllable direct lease operating costs but exclude ad valorem taxes, production taxes and non-recurring lease operating costs.
(4)
All of our Mid-Continent properties were sold in 2013.
Within the above major operating regions, the Rocky Mountain and Onshore Gulf Coast regions represented more than 15% of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2014. The following is a summary, by product sold, for each primary field in these regions for the three years ended December 31, 2014:
(1) Before the impact of hedging activities.
(2) Production costs include direct lease operating costs but exclude ad valorem taxes and production taxes.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth our gross and net working interests in exploratory and development wells drilled during the three years ended December 31:
(1)
Excludes 2.0 gross (1.4 net) wells drilled by Blue Eagle.
In addition to the above drilling activity, as of December 31, 2014 we had 17.0 gross (7.07 net) wells that were at various stages of drilling and/or completion that are not represented in the above table.
Present Activities
As of March 10, 2015, we had six gross (5.0 net) operated wells in the process of drilling and/or completing. In the following discussion, production rates do not include the impact of NGL production and shrinkage from processing including the flaring of gas. The following provides an overview of our present activities by region:
Williston Basin
At Abraxas’ North Fork prospect, in McKenzie County, North Dakota, the Stenehjem 3H, producing from the Middle Bakken, averaged 1,057 Boepd (848 Bbls of oil per day, 1,254 Mcf of gas per day) over the well’s peak 30 days of production. The Stenehjem 2H and 4H, producing from the Three Forks, averaged 863 Boepd (686 Bbls of oil per day, 1,062 Mcf of gas per day) over the wells’ peak 30 days of production. In the Jore unit, Abraxas recently set production casing in the laterals of the Jore 5H, 6H, 7H and 8H. All four Jore wells are awaiting completion. Abraxas owns a working interest of approximately 73% and 76% in the Stenehjem and Jore wells, respectively.
Eagle Ford
At Abraxas’ Jourdanton prospect in Atascosa County, Texas, the Cat Eye 1H averaged 491 Boepd (464 Bbls of oil per day, 169 Mcf of gas per day) over the well’s peak 30 days of production. Since being placed on submersible pump the Cat Eye 1H averaged 587 Boepd (552 Bbls of oil per day, 211 Mcf of gas per day) over the following twelve production days. The Cat Eye 1H represents the Company’s first well on the Southern fault block at Jourdanton. Abraxas has completed drilling on the Grass Farm 2H and is awaiting completion. Abraxas owns a 100% working interest across the Jourdanton prospect.
At Abraxas’ Dilworth East prospect, in McMullen County, Texas, the Company has completed drilling the R. Henry 1H and is awaiting completion. Following the completion of drilling operations on the R. Henry 1H, the Company released the Eagle Ford rig. Abraxas owns a 100% working interest in the R. Henry 1H.
Abraxas recently leased 204 incremental net acres at the Company’s Dilworth East prospect in McMullen County, Texas. The prospect now consists of a combined 1,148 net contiguous acres and can accommodate up to ten 5,000-5,500 foot laterals and three 8,500 foot laterals.
Office Facilities
Our executive and administrative offices are located at 18803 Meisner Drive, San Antonio, Texas 78258, and consist of approximately 21,000 square feet. We own the building which is subject to a real estate lien note. The note bears interest at a fixed
rate of 4.25%, and is payable in monthly installments of principal and interest of $34,354. The note matures in July 2023. The note is secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements. As of December 31, 2014, $4.3 million was outstanding on the note. We lease office space in Dickinson, North Dakota for a monthly rental of $2,245 through October 2015, increasing to $2,320 in November 2015 through October 2016 . The lease expires on October 31, 2016. We lease office space in Lusk, Wyoming for a monthly rental of $750. The lease expires on December 31, 2016. We also lease office space in Denver, Colorado for a monthly rental of $895. The lease expires on December 31, 2015.
Other Properties
We own 1,769 acres of land, including an office building, workshop, warehouse and house in San Patricio County, Texas, 613 acres of land and an office building in Scurry County, Texas, 50 acres of land in DeWitt County, Texas, 162 acres of land in Coke County, Texas, 582 acres of land in McKenzie County, North Dakota and 12,817 acres of land in Pecos County, Texas.
We own 32 vehicles which are used in the field by employees. We own two workover rigs, which are used for servicing our wells. Raven Drilling owns a 2000 HP drilling rig, primarily to be used for drilling wells in the Williston Basin. We own three houses in North Dakota and a man-camp in North Dakota to house rig crews.
Item 3.