Item 2. Properties
Exploratory and Developmental Acreage
Our principal oil and gas properties consist of producing and non-producing oil and gas leases, including reserves of oil and gas in place. The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped acreage and fee mineral acreage as of December 31, 2018.
(1)
Fee mineral acreage represents fee simple absolute ownership of the mineral estate or fraction thereof.
(2)
Includes 640 net acres in the Permian Basin region that are included in both developed and fee mineral acres.
The following table sets forth Abraxas’ net undeveloped acreage subject to expiration by year:
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our gross and net productive wells, expressed separately for oil and gas, as of December 31, 2018:
Reserves Information
The estimation and disclosure requirements we employ conform to the definition of proved reserves with the Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting rules, which were issued by the SEC at the end of 2008. This accounting standard requires that the average first-day-of-the-month price during the 12-month period preceding the end of the year be used when estimating reserve quantities and permits the use of reliable technologies to determine proved reserves, if those technologies have been demonstrated to result in reliable conclusions about reserves volumes.
The Company’s proved oil and gas reserves have been estimated by an independent petroleum engineering firm, DeGolyer & MacNaughton, as of December 31, 2016, and 2017 and LaRoche Petroleum Consultants as of December 31, 2018, assisted by the engineering and operations departments of the Company. For the year ended December 31, 2018, LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd., of Dallas, Texas estimated reserves for our properties comprising approximately 99% of the PV-10 of our proved oil and gas reserves. Proved reserves for the remaining 1% of our properties were estimated by Abraxas personnel because we determined that it was not practical for LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. to prepare reserve estimates for these properties as they are located in a widely dispersed geographic area and have relatively low value. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd's reserve report as of December 31, 2018 included a total of 316 properties and our internal report included 201 properties.
The technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. is an independent firm of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists. They do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed on a contingent fee basis. All reports by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. were developed utilizing their own geological and engineering data, supplemented by data provided by Abraxas. The report of LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. dated February 12, 2019, which contains further discussions of the reserve estimates and evaluations prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. as well as the qualifications of LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd.’s technical personnel responsible for overseeing such estimates and evaluations is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Estimates of reserves at December 31, 2018 were based on studies performed by the engineering department of Abraxas which is directly responsible for Abraxas’ reserve evaluation process. The Vice President of Engineering manages this department and is the primary technical person responsible for this process. The Vice President of Engineering holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering and is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas; he has 40 years of experience in reserve evaluations. The operations department of Abraxas assisted in the process. Reserve information as well as models used to estimate such reserves are stored on secured databases. Non-technical inputs used in reserve estimation models, including oil and gas prices, production costs, future capital expenditures and Abraxas’ net ownership percentages, were obtained from other departments within Abraxas.
Oil and gas reserves and the estimates of the present value of future net revenues therefrom were determined based on prices and costs as prescribed by SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidelines. Reserve calculations involve the estimate of future net recoverable reserves of oil and gas and the timing and amount of future net revenues to be received therefrom. Such estimates are not precise and are based on assumptions regarding a variety of factors, many of which are variable and uncertain. Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of oil and gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved developed oil and gas reserves are those expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC and the FASB, which require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing economic and operating conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations or de-escalations except by contractual arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2018, commodity prices over the prior 12-month period and year end costs were used in estimating future net cash flows.
The following table sets forth certain information regarding estimates of our oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2018. All of our reserves are located in the United States.
Our estimates of proved developed reserves, proved undeveloped reserves, and total proved reserves at December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, and changes in proved reserves during the last three years are presented in the Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures under Item 8 of this report. Also presented in the Supplemental Information are our estimates of future net cash flows and discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves.
We have not filed information with a federal authority or agency with respect to our estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2018. We report gross proved reserves of operated properties in the United States to the U.S. Department of Energy on an annual basis; these reported reserves are derived from the same data used to estimate and report proved reserves in this report.
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and involves decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves set forth or incorporated by reference in this report. We may also adjust estimates of reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, estimates of oil and gas reserves, future net revenue from reserves and the PV-10 thereof for the oil and gas properties described in this report are based on the assumption that future oil and gas prices remain the same as oil and gas prices utilized in the December 31, 2018 report. The average realized sales prices used for purposes of such estimates were $59.65 per Bbl of oil and $1.76 per Mcf of gas. It is also assumed that we will make future capital expenditures of approximately $547.2 million in the aggregate primarily in the years 2019 through 2023, which are necessary to develop and realize the value of proved reserves on our properties. Any significant variance in actual results from these assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth herein.
You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are calculated using the average first-day-of-the-month price over the prior 12-month period. Costs used in the estimated discounted future net cash flows are costs as of the end of the period. Because we use the full cost method to account for our oil and gas operations, we are susceptible to significant non-cash charges during times of volatile commodity prices because the full cost pool may be impaired when prices are low. This is known as a “ceiling limitation write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flows from operating activities but does reduce our stockholders’ equity and reported earnings. We have experienced ceiling limitation write-downs in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience additional ceiling limitation write-downs in the future. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company’s net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the present value of our estimated proved reserves. During 2016, we recorded a proved property impairment of $67.6 million. If commodity prices decrease, we could be required to further write down the carrying value of our reserves during 2019 which would also reduce our net income.
For more information regarding the full cost method of accounting, you should read the information under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies.”
Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs used in the estimate. Any changes in consumption by gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. Our effective interest rate on borrowings at various times and the risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Changes in PUDs. Significant changes to PUDs that occurred during 2018 are summarized in the table below. Revisions of prior estimates reflect the addition of new PUDs associated with current development plans, revisions to prior PUDs, revisions to infill drilling development plans, as well as the transfer of PUDs to unproved reserve categories due to changes in development plans during the year. Our year-end development plans are consistent with SEC guidelines for PUDs development within five years unless specific circumstances warrant a longer development time horizon. There were no PUDs as of December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 as set forth in this report that are not planned to be developed within five years.
The following is a summary of the changes to the Company's proved undeveloped reserves that occurred during 2018:
We spent approximately $56.3 million converting proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves in 2018. The following is a summary of the changes to the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves that occurred during 2018.
Revisions of prior estimates:
An increase of 3,040 MBoe of net reserves was attributed to increased economic life calculations at the higher commodity pricing experienced during 2018.
Extensions, discoveries and other additions:
The Company added sixteen new proved undeveloped Wolfcamp A locations, and three 3rd Bone Spring locations in Ward County, Texas, accounting for 8,530 MBoe of net reserves. These locations are direct offsets to either successful Abraxas producing wells or those operated by others. The Company added two new proved undeveloped Middle Bakken locations, and one Three Forks location in McKenzie County, North Dakota, accounting for 1,692 MBoe of net reserves. These locations are direct offsets to either successful Abraxas producing well or those operated by others. The Company purchased two proved undeveloped non-operated locations in Ward County, Texas during 2018 accounting for 411 MBoe of net reserves. The Company also converted five probable undeveloped Wolfcamp A locations, and one Wolfcamp B locations in Ward County, Texas, to proved undeveloped reserves during 2018 accounting for 2,670 MBoe of net reserves.
Conversion to developed:
The Company converted four proved undeveloped Wolfcamp A locations in Ward County, Texas, to proved developed reserves during 2018 accounting for 917 MBoe of net reserves. The Company converted thirteen proved undeveloped Bakken and Three Forks locations in McKenzie County, North Dakota, to proved developed reserves during 2018 accounting for 4,452 MBoe of net reserves. There was also one proved undeveloped Bakken location in McKenzie County, North Dakota, converted to proved non-producing reserves during 2018 accounting for 415 MBoe of net reserves. Also, there were nine non-operated proved undeveloped Bakken and Three Forks locations in McKenzie County, North Dakota, converted to proved developed producing reserves during 2018 accounting for 24 MBoe of net reserves. There was also one non-operated proved undeveloped Bakken location in McKenzie County, North Dakota, converted to proved non-producing reserves during 2018 accounting for 3 MBoe of net reserves.
Conversion to probable:
The Company converted twenty-two proved undeveloped Three Forks 2nd Bench locations in McKenzie County, North Dakota, to probable undeveloped reserves during 2018 accounting for 6,885 MBoe of net reserves. There was also one proved undeveloped Rockies location in Billings County, North Dakota, converted to probable undeveloped reserves during 2018 accounting for 136 MBoe of net reserves. Also, there were twelve non-operated proved undeveloped Bakken and Three Forks locations in McKenzie County, North Dakota, converted to probable undeveloped reserves during 2018 accounting for 1,052 MBoe of net reserves. There was one non-operated proved undeveloped Rockies location in Billings County, North Dakota, converted to probable undeveloped reserves during 2018 accounting for 5 MBoe of net reserves. All of these locations are no longer included in the Company’s five-year development schedule.
Sold:
The Company sold two properties in Ward County, Texas that included 3,459 MBoe of net proved undeveloped Montoya reserves.
Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to PV-10
PV-10 is the estimated present value of the future net revenues from our proved oil and gas reserves before income taxes discounted using a 10% discount rate. PV-10 is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations because it does not include the effects of future income taxes, as is required in computing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. We believe that PV-10 is an important measure that can be used to evaluate the relative significance of our oil and gas properties and that PV-10 is widely used by securities analysts and investors when evaluating oil and gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. We believe that most other companies in the oil and gas industry calculate PV-10 on the same basis. PV-10 is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting income taxes.
The following table provides a reconciliation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows to PV-10 at December 31, 2017 and 2018:
Oil and Gas Production, Sales Prices and Production Costs
The following table presents our net oil, gas and NGL production, the average sales price per Bbl of oil and NGL and per Mcf of gas produced and the average cost of production per Boe of production sold, for the three years ended December 31, by our major operating regions:
(1)
Oil and gas were combined by converting gas to Boe on the basis of 6 Mcf of gas to 1 Bbl of oil.
(2)
Before the impact of hedging activities.
(3)
Production costs include direct lease operating costs but exclude ad valorem taxes and production taxes.
Within the above major operating regions, the Rocky Mountain and the Permian/Delaware regions represented more than 15% of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2018. The following is a summary, by product sold, for each primary field in these regions, which represented 15% or more of our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2018, for the three years ended December 31:
(1)
Before the impact of hedging activities.
(2)
Production costs include direct lease operating costs but exclude ad valorem taxes and production taxes.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth our gross and net interests in exploratory and development wells drilled during the three years ended December 31:
In addition to the above drilling activity, as of December 31, 2018 we had 8.00 gross (4.2 net) operated wells and 2.0 gross (0.6 net) non-operated wells that were drilled and uncompleted that are not represented in the above table.
Present Activities
Williston Basin, North Dakota
Western North Dakota has experienced one of the coldest winters on record. Abraxas has experienced several days when all surface work was shut down due to temperatures and wind chill that put personnel safety and equipment reliability in jeopardy. Our Ravin NE Pad is still under production restriction due to a natural gas pipeline installation delay requiring the flaring of all gas production from this pad. The pipeline is scheduled to be in service within the next two weeks at which point we are expecting normal production operations to be resumed. The Abraxas Raven Rig#1 is scheduled to be started up within the next several months to begin drilling operations on the six well Jore Extension Pad.
Delaware Basin, West Texas
In the Delaware Basin of West Texas, the Company has successfully drilled, completed and started flowback on the two well Creosote Pad in Ward County, where Abraxas now owns an approximate 95% working interest. The Wolfcamp A-1 and A-2 were targeted with a 26 stage fracture treatment (frac) in 5,000’ laterals. The one well Hackberry pad has been successfully drilled and a 26 stage fracture treatment in the Wolfcamp A-1 is scheduled to start next Monday. Abraxas owns an approximate 75% working interest in this 5,000’ lateral well located in Winkler County. The Company is currently drilling a two well pad, Woodberry, in which we own a 100% working interest. The Woodberry Pad adjoins our Caprito block in Ward County.
Office Facilities
Our executive and administrative offices are located at 18803 Meisner Drive, San Antonio, Texas 78258, and consist of approximately 21,000 square feet. We own the building which is subject to a real estate lien note.
Other Properties
We own 15.3 acres of land in Atascosa County, Texas, 1.5 acres of land and an office building in Ward County, Texas and an office building and lot in Niobrara County, Wyoming, 50 acres of land in DeWitt County, Texas and 582 acres of land, with shop and office, in McKenzie County, North Dakota.We own 23 vehicles which are used in the field by employees. We also own a workover rig, which is used for servicing our wells. Raven Drilling owns a 2000 HP drilling rig, primarily used for drilling wells in the Williston Basin. In North Dakota, we own three houses and a man-camp to house rig crews.
Item 3.