Item 2. PROPERTIES
OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
The following table summarizes certain information with respect to each of the Company's areas of operations and production. All information is presented as of December 31, 1997.
(1) Calculated for the quarter ended December 31, 1997.
(2) Includes leasehold, option and seismic rights.
Denver-Julesburg Basin
The D-J Basin is located in northeastern Colorado, and for more than 15 years has been the Company's primary producing region. HSR's D-J Basin production and reserves are largely found in the Codell, Niobrara, D-Sand and J-Sand formations with additional production from the deeper Dakota sandstones and the shallower Sussex and Shannon sandstones. Drilling success rates have historically been high, and production from these formations is characterized by strong initial flows and long-lived reserves. Production also tends to be a combination of oil and gas. Gas produced in the central part of the D-J Basin, including the Wattenberg Field area ("Wattenberg"), has an energy content of approximately 1,250 Btu per Mcf, which enhances wellhead value.
One of the attractive features of D-J Basin geology is its multi-pay potential. In a section only 3,500 feet thick, there are at least seven major potentially productive formations. Three of the formations, the Codell, Niobrara and J- Sand, are "blanket" zones in the area of the Company's Wattenberg holdings, while others, such as the D-Sand and the shallower Shannon and Sussex, are more localized.
Wattenberg Field Area. The majority of the Company's D-J Basin properties are concentrated in Wattenberg, located approximately 35 miles north of Denver. With the addition of the Amoco Properties, the Company's producing assets in this area are comprised primarily of wells producing from the Codell, Niobrara and J-Sand formations. The Codell and Niobrara formations are found at depths ranging from 6,400 to 7,700 feet and the J-Sand is found between 7,400 and 7,800 feet. Codell and Niobrara wells produce oil and gas, while J-Sand wells produce primarily gas. All of the gas from this field has high Btu content, allowing for extraction of natural gas liquids.
Greater D-J Basin. The Greater D-J Basin is that portion of the D-J Basin located generally south and east of Wattenberg. Production in the Greater D-J Basin is generally found in D-Sand and J-Sand channels, and can produce oil, gas or both. Within the D-Sand and J-Sand, high porosities and permeabilities can yield higher flow rates than Wattenberg wells. D-Sand and J-Sand channels, while not "blanket" formations, can be prolific when encountered. The D-Sand and J-Sand are stratigraphically located below the Codell and Niobrara formations at depths ranging from 6,800 to 7,800 feet.
Mid-Continent
The Company's Mid-Continent properties are primarily located in three geological areas: (i) the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma and the Texas panhandle, (ii) the Arkoma Basin in southeastern Oklahoma and western Arkansas and (iii) southern Oklahoma.
Anadarko Basin. The Anadarko Basin is a major Mid-Continent oil and gas producing area located in western Oklahoma and the Texas panhandle. The greatest concentration of oil fields occurs on the eastern flank of the basin, with gas fields dominating the shelf to the west, the Texas panhandle area and the deep basin located in southwestern Oklahoma. The majority of the Company's production comes from the Red Fork, Springer-Morrow, Chester, Mississippi and Hunton formations. Oil and gas are produced in this basin from depths of only a few hundred feet to over 20,000 feet, and most of the Company's wells produce from depths between 6,000 and 16,000 feet.
Arkoma Basin. The Arkoma Basin is a crescent-shaped region straddling the Arkansas-Oklahoma border. It is a major gas region, with most wells producing from depths between 5,000 and 12,000 feet. The majority of the Company's production comes from the Booch, Hartshorne, Atoka, Spiro and Cromwell formations, primarily at depths between 5,000 and 10,000 feet.
South Oklahoma. The southern Oklahoma area is a faulted and folded geologic province that extends across seven counties in south-central Oklahoma. The Company's production is mainly from Pennsylvanian Hoxbar, Deese and Springer sands, the Hunton and Viola carbonates, and the Simpson sand. The Company's wells in this region produce from depths ranging from 5,000 to 17,000 feet.
Gulf Coast
The Company has established a core geographic area in onshore south Louisiana and the upper Texas Gulf Coast. Its activities focus on both shallow exploitation and deeper exploration targets in those areas. Focus areas are Acadia, Jefferson Davis, Beauregard, Calcasieu, St. Landry and Evangaline Parishes of south Louisiana and Chambers, Ft. Bend and Matagorda Counties in the upper Texas Gulf Coast. Wells in the area target the Frio, Vicksburg, Cockfield, Yegua, Sparta, and Hackberry formations at depths ranging from 3,000 to 13,500 feet. The complex faulted and prolific salt dome dominated region possesses numerous reservoir targets that, in various combinations, provide attractive multi-zone drilling prospects from as shallow as 6,500 feet to deeper than 12,000 feet.
Northern Rocky Mountains
HSR produces in two areas of the Northern Rocky Mountains, the Williston and Green River Basins. The Company operates wells in two fields in the Daniels County, Montana, portion of the Williston Basin. These wells produce from the Ratcliffe, McGowan and Mission Canyon formations at depths ranging from 5,900 to 6,500 feet. The Company operates 18 wells in the Blue Forest Unit on the Moxa Arch portion of the Green River Basin in Wyoming. The Blue Forest Unit currently produces from the Frontier and Muddy formations found at depths of approximately 11,000 feet. Although most of HSR's gas production in Blue Forest Unit has been sold under the TCW Facility, the Company has retained development, operating and certain marketing rights.
PROJECT INVENTORY
The following table summarizes the Company's inventory of projects identified on its properties as of December 31, 1997.
Denver-Julesburg Basin Projects
The Company has a significant inventory of investment opportunities in the D-J Basin. That inventory consists of development drilling on existing spacing, behind-pipe recompletions, refrac projects, potential increased density drilling, wellbore extensions, and exploration leads.
Wattenberg Field Area. The Company drilled 41 wells in Wattenberg during 1997, accounting for additional production of approximately 2,541 Mcf of gas and 365 Bbl of oil production per day as of December 31, 1997. In addition to the over 2,100 opportunities provided by the Amoco Acquisition, HSR has in inventory 900 development drillsites, of which 584 are included in proved undeveloped reserves. In addition, the Company has identified approximately 240 recompletion opportunities in Wattenberg and at least 250 potentially economic infill drillsites.
By combining the Amoco Properties with those previously owned by the Company, HSR now owns numerous low-risk, potentially high-return development opportunities. Because the Company owned formations that were vertically stacked over and under formations previously owned by Amoco, the Company can now utilize existing HSR or former Amoco wells to obtain potential reserves that were not available or economic to either Amoco or HSR before the Amoco Acquisition. For example, an existing HSR Codell well can be deepened a few hundred feet to reach the J-Sand or Dakota formations previously owned by Amoco, or an existing Amoco J-Sand well can be recompleted uphole to produce from the Codell, Niobrara, Sussex or Shannon
formations that have been owned by HSR for some time but were not economically attractive enough to justify the drilling of a new well. Production from the various formations can generally be commingled.
The Company has also undertaken a program to increase Codell production from existing wells through a process of restimulating (or "refracing") the currently producing formation. The Company has completed 53 refracs through year end, all of which were successful. Through the refrac process, the Company restimulated each well to achieve production levels, reserve increases and decline profiles approaching the well's initial characteristics. The Company believes that there are more than 500 opportunities for this type of well stimulation. In addition, gas production from many of the refrac candidates generate Section 29 tax credits of approximately $0.60 per Mcf, which the Company monetizes under its existing Section 29 monetization arrangements.
Greater D-J Basin. The Greater D-J Basin, in which the Company owns rights to more than 173,000 gross undeveloped acres, provides HSR with significant exploitation and exploration potential through the use of advanced technologies such as 3-D seismic continuity processing and geostatistical analysis. In 1997, the Company drilled and completed 21 wells, accounting for additional production of approximately 1,146 Bbl of oil per day and 4,497 Mcf of gas per day. Thirteen active projects and leads in this area are under review by the Company's geotechnical staff.
Mid-Continent Projects
The Company has identified over 213 potential development and exploitation drilling opportunities and 68 recompletion opportunities in the Mid-Continent. In 1997, the Company participated in the drilling of 32 wells adding net production of approximately 2,809 Mcf per day of gas as of December 31, 1997. The Company also performed 20 recompletions.
In the Anadarko Basin, following the transfer of properties to Amoco in connection with the Amoco Acquisition, the Company owns interests in 405 wells in various fields which provide numerous potentially attractive development and exploitation opportunities. The Company has identified approximately 84 drilling and 51 recompletion opportunities in various fields. In 1997, the Company drilled a successful well extending the existing Bivins Ranch field, creating the opportunity for an additional three to five offset wells.
In the Arkoma Basin, the Company owns interests in 384 wells in the Kinta, Bokoshe, Russellville, Wilburton and other fields. The Company has identified approximately 129 drilling and 17 recompletion opportunities.
Other areas present additional opportunities. For example, with the use of 3-D seismic data, the Company has identified further drilling opportunities at La Reforma field in northwestern Hidalgo County, Texas, in which the Company owns interests in a 5,100 acre contiguous block. The Company drilled two successful wells at La Reforma in 1997 and expects to participate in an additional well in 1998. Further potential in this area is currently being evaluated.
Gulf Coast Projects
The Company's onshore Gulf Coast activity is focused in southwest Louisiana and southeast Texas. The Company has been developing prospects in 18 active project areas. To date, the Company has acquired over 530 square miles of 3-D seismic data to support the exploration effort.
During 1997, the Company's Gulf Coast exploration program entered the drilling phase on several projects. The Company participated in 16 gross wells, 11 of which were successful. The most significant discovery is the HSR Carter #1 well in the Roanoke project, which is currently producing 8.2 MMcf and 127 Bbl per day. Gross year end reserves are estimated to be 2.5 million Boe for this well.
In addition, the Buhler project has now drilled nine successful wells in 11 attempts, with reserves averaging 512,000 Boe per well. Although the Company has a small interest in the Buhler project, the technology gained from the program has provided the basis for developing three additional project areas, in which the Company's working interests range from 25% to 50%. For example, the North Gillis program in Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana, in which the Company has a 37.5% working interest, is a direct offset and analog to the successful Buhler project. This project targets Hackberry and Yegua sands. The 3-D seismic survey is complete with drilling to commence in the first half of 1998.
The Company has a 25% working interest in the Iowa/Welsh 3-D project operated by Sonat Exploration, Inc. in Jefferson Davis Parish, Louisiana. The 135 square mile 3-D seismic survey has been completed and initial drilling is expected to follow in late 1998.
At the Port Barre project in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, the Company has completed the field acquisition phase of a 55 square mile 3-D seismic survey. Initial drilling is expected to commence in the second half of 1998. The Company has a 100% working interest in the Port Barre program.
Northern Rocky Mountain Projects
The Company's strategic focus for the Northern Rocky Mountain area is to optimize production, fund exploratory activity through joint ventures, and continue evaluation of undeveloped acreage. The Company has entered into agreements with several operators with specific areas of technological or operational expertise to evaluate and exploit certain of its large acreage positions. By year end, this effort resulted in the drilling of four wildcats with three additional wells currently being drilled, and the acquisition of over 73 square miles of 3-D seismic data.
For example, the Company has entered into an agreement with Union Pacific Resources Company ("UPRC") on nearly 300,000 gross undeveloped acres in Daniels County, Montana in the Williston Basin. Through the agreement, UPRC has drilled two dual-lateral horizontal wells and one single-lateral horizontal well. All three wells are currently on production and under evaluation.
In Richland and Roosevelt County, Montana, HSR has entered into joint venture agreements with experienced local operators. These agreements resulted in the drilling of two exploratory wells and the acquisition of 32 square miles of 3-D seismic data. Both wells were dry holes. The seismic data is awaiting interpretation.
The Company retains a significant acreage position in the Greater Green River Basin, one of the most active areas in the Northern Rocky Mountains. New geophysical, drilling and completion technologies appear to be unlocking high-potential exploration opportunities targeting over-pressured basin-centered gas.
ACREAGE
The Company's acreage positions have increased significantly, from approximately 9,000 developed and 37,000 undeveloped net acres as of December 31, 1991, to approximately 671,271 developed and 780,821 undeveloped net acres as of December 31, 1997.
The following table sets forth the gross and net developed and undeveloped acres on which the Company owns the rights to conduct exploration and development activity as of December 31, 1997.
(1) Includes acres upon which the Company owns the rights to conduct seismic, exploration and development activity but is not the lessee.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
Two independent petroleum engineering consulting firms were engaged to review the Company's estimates of its proved reserves, projected future production and estimated future net revenues from production of proved reserves as of December 31, 1997. Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. reviewed HSR's D-J Basin, Northern Rockies and Gulf Coast properties, and Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. reviewed the Company's Mid-Continent reserves. Such estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by or available to the Company. In determining the estimates of the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, the Company used selling prices and estimated development and production costs which were in effect as of December 31, 1997. In accordance with guidelines promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, no price or cost escalation or de-escalation was considered. The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 1997, derived from the Company's reserve reports. The present value (discounted at 10%) of estimated future net revenues before income taxes shown in the table is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves
owned by the Company. In the aggregate, 84% of the Company's pre-tax present value for the total proved reserves were reviewed by the two engineering firms.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve data set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates made by different engineers often vary from one another. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimates, either upward or downward, and such revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Furthermore, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including prices, future production levels and cost, that may not prove over time to have been correct.
Predictions about prices and future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and this is particularly true as to proved undeveloped reserves, which are inherently less certain than proved developed reserves, and which comprise a significant portion of the Company's proved reserves. Pricing assumptions materially affect the calculation of present value of future net revenues, principally in two ways. First, higher or lower prices directly affect estimated cash flows attributable to a given reserve and production stream. Second, higher or lower prices also increase or decrease the number of potentially recoverable barrels of oil or cubic feet of gas. This is because wells reach their economic limit earlier in a lower product price environment than in a higher price environment, hence truncating the economic recovery of reserves.
Oil and gas prices have fluctuated widely in recent years. The weighted average sales prices utilized for the purposes of estimating the Company's proved reserves and future net revenue therefrom at December 31, 1997, were $16.38 per Bbl of oil and $2.31 per Mcf of gas. For cautions regarding forward-looking statements made or implied by the Company see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and the Company's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 1997.
For further information concerning the present value of future net revenue from the Company's proved reserves, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Since December 31, 1990, as an operator of domestic oil and gas properties, the Company has filed Department of Energy Form EIA-23, "Annual Survey of Oil and Gas Reserves," as required by Public Law 93-275. There are differences between the reserves as reported on Form EIA-23 and as reported herein. The difference is attributable to the fact that Form EIA-23 requires that an operator report on the total reserves attributable to wells which are operated by it, without regard to ownership (i.e., reserves are reported on a gross operated basis, rather that on a net interest basis), while reserves reported herein are net to the Company.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth the net wells drilled and completed by the Company during the periods indicated. Substantially all of the Company's wells produce both oil and gas.
PRODUCTIVE OIL AND GAS WELLS
The number of productive oil and gas wells, operated and non-operated, in which the Company had an interest as of December 31, 1997, are as follows:
Wells are classified as oil or gas producers as described in statutory definitions based on oil/gas ratios. As a result, most of the Company's wells are categorized as oil wells, even though, on an equivalent Btu basis, such wells tend to produce more gas than oil.
DEVELOPMENT, EXPLORATION AND ACQUISITION EXPENDITURES
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the costs incurred by the Company in its development, exploration and acquisition activities during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands).
PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth the Company's oil and gas production data during the periods indicated.
(1) Average daily production for 1997 was calculated for the quarter ended December 31, as the results are believed to be more indicative of current performance.
Item 3.