ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Office Leases
We lease and maintain office space in Edmonton, Alberta for corporate and administrative operations. This lease will expire on June 30, 2015.
Oil and Gas Properties
Acreage
Currently, we have a 90% working interest in 51 sections on six oil sands leases, a 100% working interest in five sections on one oil sands lease, and a 25% working interest in an additional 12 sections on two oil sands leases in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta, all of these sections are contiguous. These nine oil sands leases cover 43,015 gross acres (17,408 gross hectares). Of the 68 contiguous sections on nine oil sands leases, one of our joint venture partners is the operator of 12 sections on two oil sands leases where we have a 25% working interest since the execution of the Farmout Agreement, and we are the operator on 56 sections on seven oil sands leases where we have working interests of either 90% or 100%.
For further information, see Oil and Gas Properties on our Balance Sheet and Note 3 and Note 4 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements contained herein.
The following table summarizes, by geographic area, our gross and net developed and undeveloped Peace River oil sands rights under lease as of September 30, 2014:
A developed acre is considered to mean those acres spaced or assignable to productive wells, a gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned, and a net acre is the result that is obtained when the fractional ownership working interest of a lease is multiplied by gross acres of that lease. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those lease acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether or not that acreage contains proven reserves, but does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of a lease. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we can generally retain our interest in undeveloped acreage by engaging in drilling activity that establishes commercial production sufficient to maintain the leases, or by paying delay rentals during the remaining primary term of such a lease. The oil sands leases in which we have an interest are for a primary term of 15 years, and if we meet the Minimum Level of Evaluation (“MLE”) as set out by the government of Alberta oil sands tenure guidelines we can continue these leases beyond their primary term for an indefinite period.
The government of Alberta owns the land and we have acquired the rights to perform oil and gas activities on these lands. If we meet the conditions of the 15-year leases we will be permitted to drill on and produce oil from the land into perpetuity. These conditions give us until the expiration of the leases to meet the following requirements on our primary oil sands leases:
(i) drill 68 wells throughout the 68 sections; or
(ii) drill 44 wells within the 68 sections and acquire and process two miles of seismic on each other undrilled section.
We plan to meet the second of these conditions. As at December 31, 2014, we have an interest in ten wells, which can be counted toward these requirements. We have acquired and processed 25 miles of seismic on the leases, some which can be counted toward the MLE requirements. Our joint venture partner and operator of the SAGD Project has also acquired additional seismic that can be used towards our MLE requirements.
We have also identified two other wells drilled on these leases, which may be included in the satisfaction of the MLE requirements.
Our developed and undeveloped oil sands acreage as of December 31, 2014, covers 43,015 gross acres (34,096 net acres) on 68 sections of land under nine oil sands leases. Until we extend the leases “into perpetuity” based on the government of Alberta regulations, the lease expiration dates of our nine oil sands leases are as follows:
(i)32 sections of land or 20,242 gross acres (13,284 net acres) under five oil sands leases are set to expire on July 10, 2018;
(ii)31 sections of land or 19,610 gross acres (17,649 net acres) under three oil sands leases are set to expire on August 19, 2019; and
(iii)five sections of land or 3,163 gross acres (3,163 net acres) under one oil sands lease are set expire on April 9, 2024. It is the Company’s opinion that the Company has already met the governmental requirements for this lease and it will be applying to continue this lease into perpetuity.
Delivery Commitments
We are not subject to any obligations under existing delivery commitment contracts or agreements calling for the provision of fixed and determinable quantities of oil and gas.
Disclosure of Reserves
Our oil reserves are attributable solely to properties within Alberta, Canada. The following table discloses, in the aggregate, the Company’s estimated reserves on the Company’s Sawn Lake oil sands properties located in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta, Canada, as of September 30, 2014, based on estimated constant prices and cost assumptions. We reported no proved, probable or possible reserves based on Petroleum Resources Management System (“PRMS”) standards as at September 30, 2013.
(1)Gross Reserves - are defined as the Company’s working interest reserves (operating or non-operating) before deduction of royalties.
(2)Net Reserves - are defined as the Company’s working interest reserves (operating or non-operating) after deduction of royalties.
Note: The numbers in this table may not add exactly due to rounding.
Under current SEC standards, “Proved Reserves” are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible, from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation.
Under current SEC standards, the term “Reasonable Certainty” if deterministic methods are used, implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (“EUR”) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease.
Reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty.
Under current SEC standards, “Reliable Technology” is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
In order to establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, we employ in-situ technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results in the oil sands with consistency and repeatability. The technical data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data and well test data. Reserves attributable to our producing wells which have limited production history and for undeveloped locations are estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and technical data to assess the reservoir continuity.
The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of reserves and future cash flows are based on various assumptions and are inherently imprecise. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil reserves may vary substantially from these estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and estimates of reserves quantities and values must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about our properties becomes available.
Estimates of probable and possible reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. Possible reserves are even less certain and generally require only a 10% or greater probability of being recovered. All categories of reserves are continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. Estimates of probable and possible reserves are by their nature much more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and are subject to greater uncertainties, and accordingly the likelihood of recovering those reserves is subject to substantially greater risk.
Third Party Reports
Our estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves were based on an independent third party report prepared and evaluated by DeGolyer and MacNaughton Canada Limited (“DeGolyer”) an independent qualified reserves evaluator. DeGolyer is an Alberta Corporation with offices in Calgary, Alberta. DeGolyer is a subsidiary of DeGolyer and MacNaughton which has been providing petroleum consulting services throughout the world since 1936. DeGolyer was engaged by our Company to evaluate our Company’s Sawn Lake oil sands properties located in Northern Alberta and prepare an independent assessment and evaluation of our Company’s reserves as at September 30, 2014. Included herein, as Exhibit 23.1, is a consent report from DeGolyer.
Preparation of Reserves Estimates and Reserves Evaluation
Our reserves data and estimates were prepared and evaluated by DeGolyer in compliance with SEC definitions and guidance and in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. The technical persons employed by DeGolyer met the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Our reserves estimates are prepared by independent examination and evaluation of our production data, reservoir pressure data, logs, geological data, and offset analogies. DeGolyer is provided full access to complete and accurate information pertaining to our properties, and to all applicable personnel of our Company. DeGolyer’s independent evaluation of our reserves was supervised by Mr. Douglas S. Christie, Vice President of DeGolyer. Mr. Christie is a registered professional geologist in Alberta, Canada and has over 33 years of oil and gas industry experience and 22 years of application evaluation experience. Our Board recently appointed a reserves and resources committee consisting of four Board members. The reserves and resources committee members are Mr. Said Arrata, Mr. David Roff, Mr. Colin Outtrim and Mr. Curtis James Sparrow. Our reserves estimates and process for developing such estimates are reviewed by our current reserves and resources committee and approved by our management. Our management on behalf of our Board ensures compliance with SEC disclosure and internal control requirements along with verifying the independence of all third-party consultants. Our management is ultimately responsible for reserve estimates and reserve disclosures and ensuring that they are in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and industry standards and practices.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are projections based on a process involving an independent third party engineering firm’s collection of all required geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and such firm’s complete external preparation of all required estimates are forward-looking in nature. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, such as constant oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses and future capital costs. The process also requires assumptions relating to availability of funds and timing of capital expenditures for development of our proven undeveloped reserves. These reports should not be construed as the current market value of our reserves. Because of the uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data, we cannot be certain that the reserves will ultimately be realized. Our actual results could differ materially.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Our independent reserves report, prepared by DeGolyer, estimates that we have 290 thousand barrels proved undeveloped reserves, before deduction of royalties as at September 30, 2014, on our Sawn Lake oil sands properties located in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta, Canada. We have no material changes in our proved undeveloped reserves that occurred during the year to be reported, for the reason that this is the first time we have reported proved undeveloped reserves in any of our SEC filings.
The operator of the SAGD Project has indicated spending plans related to development of some of our proved undeveloped reserves over the next year, which includes the drilling of an additional SAGD well pair and potentially the expansion of our joint SAGD plant facility.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
The Company has filed a Statement of Reserves Data and Other Oil and Gas Information on Form 51-101F1 with the Alberta Securities Commission pursuant to National Instrument 51-101 - Standard of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities, which included estimates of total proved, probable and possible (developed and or undeveloped) net oil reserves prepared in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook (“COGEH”).
Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
On September 16, 2014, the first SAGD well pair started producing oil from our joint Sawn Lake oil sands properties. We received our first revenue late in September of 2014 from the sales of our produced oil. The following table discloses our Company’s share of production and average sales price for the last three fiscal years:
(1) First production began September 16, 2014.
(2) Our Company’s working interest share before royalties.
(3) Currently all of our operating costs from the SAGD Project are being paid by the Farmee under the terms of the Farmout Agreement
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our gross and net productive oil wells as of September 30, 2014:
(1) SAGD producer well
Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
The following table summarizes the results of our drilling activities in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012.
(1) Our 25% working interest in one SAGD producer well.
(2) Our 25% working interest in one SAGD steam injection well, one water source well and one disposal well.
Present Activities - Peace River Oil Sands, Alberta Canada (Sawn Lake Properties)
Currently we have no wells in the process of being drilled. However, we have nine wells on our Sawn Lake oil sands properties that we previously drilled and completed which are currently suspended.
On July 30, 2013, we entered into the SAGD Project Agreement. Our Company’s participation in the SAGD Project is well underway. For Phase 1 of the SAGD Project, one SAGD well pair was drilled in the fourth quarter of 2013 to a depth of 650 meters and a horizontal length of 780 meters. After the construction of the SAGD facility for steam generation, water handling and oil treating was completed in 2014, and steam injection commenced on May 21, 2014. The first oil production commenced on September 16, 2014. Results to date indicate that the SAGD production process is effective in this Bluesky formation reservoir. Oil sales averaged 221 barrels of oil per day, half way through the 3rd thirty day period since the start-up of production. Over the next several months the SAGD well pair is expected to have increased steam injection and oil production as the steam chamber develops. The objective of this initial SAGD well pair was to establish that SAGD technology is effective in producing oil from the Bluesky reservoir, and results to date support this. Production is anticipated to peak around September 2015 corresponding to the end of the first year of production.
On July 31, 2013, we entered into the Farmout Agreement. In accordance with the Farmout Agreement, the Farmee has agreed to provide up to $40,000,000 in funding for our portion of the costs for the SAGD Project, in return for a net 25% working interest in 12 sections where we had a working interest of 50% before the execution of the Farmout Agreement. The Farmee will also provide funding to cover monthly operating expenses of our Company, not to exceed $30,000 per month. In addition, and as recently amended, the Farmee has the option to elect, prior to December 31, 2015,by committing an additional $110,000,000 of financing to the development of our Company’s Sawn Lake oil sands properties, to obtain an additional working interest of 45% to 50% in the remaining 56 sections of land where we have working interests ranging from 90% to 100%. As required by the Farmout Agreement, as of December 15, 2014, the Farmee has currently paid Cdn$19,355,129 to the operator of the SAGD Project for the Farmee’s share and our share of the costs of the SAGD Project.
Currently, we have in place joint operating agreements (our “Joint Operating Agreements”) with our joint venture partners to manage the operations of our joint oil sands leases. Under these agreements our joint oil sands leases were evaluated seismically, geologically and by drilling to establish the continuity and the distribution of the crude bituminous-bearing Bluesky reservoir zone across our joint lands. The development progress of our properties is governed by several factors such as federal and provincial governmental regulations. Long lead times in getting regulatory approval for thermal recovery projects are commonplace in our industry. Road bans, winter access only roads and environmental regulations can and often do delay development of similar projects. Because of these and other factors, our oil sands project can take significantly longer to complete than regular conventional drilling programs for lighter oil. To date, our geological, engineering and economic studies lead us to believe that our working interest can support full profitable commercial production.
In August 2013, we received approval from the AER for our HCSS Project application. It is anticipated that we will develop a thermal demonstration project on our properties followed by a commercial expansion project on one half section of land located on section 10-92-13W5 of our Sawn Lake oil sands properties where we currently have a 90% working interest. This application, submitted in early 2012, was an application to modify our previously approved in-situ demonstration project for a well to test thermal production on our Sawn Lake oil sands leases. This modification changed the vertical CSS well earlier approved, into a thermal recovery project to test two wells that use a horizontal application of CSS. We are currently waiting on the production facility performance results from the SAGD Project in order to fine-tune our HCSS Project facility design before we initiate start-up operations on the ½ section of land where we plan to drill two horizontal wells to test the use of HCSS technology.
ITEM 3.