ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
Office Leases
We lease and maintain office space in Edmonton, Alberta for corporate and administrative operations. This lease will expire on June 30, 2019.
Oil and Gas Properties
Acreage
Currently, we have a 90% working interest in six oil sands leases, a 100% working interest in one oil sands lease, and a 25% working interest in an additional two oil sands leases in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta. These nine oil sands leases are contiguous and cover 42,383 gross acres (17,152 gross hectares) with our Company having 33,938 net acres (13,734 net hectares). We are the operator of seven of these oil sands leases where we have working interests of either 90% or 100%. For further information, see Oil and Gas Properties on our Balance Sheet and Note 3, 4 and 5 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements contained herein.
The following table summarize, by geographic area, our gross and net developed and undeveloped Peace River oil sands rights under lease as of September 30, 2017:
Peace River Oil Sands Rights as of September 30, 2017
A developed acreage is considered to mean those acres spaced or assignable to productive wells, a gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned, and a net acre is the result that is obtained when the fractional ownership working interest of a lease is multiplied by gross acres of that lease. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
Undeveloped acreage is considered to be those lease acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether or not that acreage contains proven reserves, but does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of a lease. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we can generally retain our interest in undeveloped acreage by engaging in drilling activity that establishes commercial production sufficient to maintain the leases, or by paying delay rentals during the remaining primary term of such a lease. The oil sands leases in which we have an interest are for a primary term of 15 years, and if we meet the Minimum Level of Evaluation as set out by the government of Alberta oil sands tenure guidelines we can continue these leases beyond their primary term for an indefinite period. Continued leases are subject to escalating yearly rents provided that they are non-producing and may be offset by any eligible research costs, exploration costs and development costs that are incurred in the term year of a continued lease. For further information, see Oil and Gas Properties Note 3 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements contained herein in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our developed and undeveloped oil sands acreage as of September 30, 2017, covers 43,015 gross acres (34,096 net acres) of land under nine oil sands leases. Until we extend the leases “into perpetuity” based on the Alberta governmental regulations, the lease expiration dates of our nine oil sands leases are as follows:
(i)32 sections of land under five oil sands leases are set to expire on July 10, 2018. 17 out of 32 sections contain a majority of the resources identified to date on these five oil sands leases. We have completed or are in the process of applying for continuation of these leases or parts of the leases where the majority of the oil sands resources have been confirmed. Currently, 11 out of the 17 sections that contain the majority of the resources identified to date have been granted continuance under the Alberta governmental tenure guidelines
(ii)31 sections of land under three oil sands leases are set to expire on August 19, 2019; and
(iii)5 sections of land under one oil sands lease are set expire on April 9, 2024. It is our opinion that we have already met the governmental requirements for this lease and we will be applying to continue all 5 sections of this lease into perpetuity.
Delivery Commitments
We are not subject to any obligations under existing delivery commitment contracts or agreements calling for the provision of fixed and determinable quantities of oil and gas.
Disclosure of Reserves
We did not have our properties independently assessed and evaluated for reserves and resources as of September 30, 2017.
Under current SEC standards, “Proved Reserves” are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible, from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
Under current SEC standards, the term “Reasonable Certainty” if deterministic methods are used, implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (“EUR”) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease.
Reasonable certainty can be established using techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty.
Under current SEC standards, “Reliable Technology” is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
In order to establish reasonable certainty with respect to our estimated proved reserves, if any, we employ in-situ technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results in the oil sands with consistency and repeatability. The technical data used in the estimation of our proved reserves, if any, include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data, well test data and SAGD Project results. Reserves, if any, attributable to our producing wells which have limited production history and for undeveloped locations are estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and technical data to assess the reservoir continuity.
The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The estimates of our reserves, if any, and future cash flows are based on various assumptions and are inherently imprecise.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and estimates of reserves quantities and values must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about our properties becomes available.
Estimates of probable and possible reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. Possible reserves are even less certain and generally require only a 10% or greater probability of being recovered. All categories of reserves are continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. Estimates of probable and possible reserves are by their nature much more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and are subject to greater uncertainties, and accordingly the likelihood of recovering those reserves is subject to substantially greater risk.
Preparation of Reserves Estimates and Reserves Evaluation
We did not have our properties independently assessed and evaluated for reserves and resources as of September 30, 2017. Our properties were last assessed and evaluated, as of September 30, 2015, for reserves and resources by DeGolyer and MacNaughton Canada Limited (“DeGolyer”) in compliance with SEC definitions and guidance and in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. The technical persons employed by DeGolyer met the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Our properties were last assessed and evaluated, as of September 30, 2015, by independent examination and evaluation of our production data, reservoir pressure data, logs, geological data, and offset analogies. DeGolyer was provided full access to complete and accurate information pertaining to our properties, and to all applicable personnel of our Company. DeGolyer’s independent evaluation of our properties for reserves, as of September 30, 2015, was supervised Ms. Nahla Boury, President of DeGolyer. Ms. Boury is a registered professional engineer in Alberta, Canada and has over 25 years of oil and gas industry experience and 21 years of application evaluation experience. Our Board appointed a reserves and resources committee consisting of four Board members. The reserves and resources committee members are Mr. Said Arrata, Mr. David Roff, Mr. Colin Outtrim and Mr. Curtis James Sparrow. Our reserves estimates, if any, and process for developing such estimates are reviewed by our current reserves and resources committee and approved by our management. Our management on behalf of our Board ensures compliance with SEC disclosure and internal control requirements along with verifying the independence of all third-party consultants. Our management is ultimately responsible for reserve estimates, if any, and reserve disclosures and ensuring that they are in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and industry standards and practices.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, if any, are projections based on a process involving an independent third party engineering firm’s collection of all required geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and such firm’s complete external preparation of all required estimates are forward-looking in nature. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, such as constant oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses and future capital costs. The process also requires assumptions relating to availability of funds and timing of capital expenditures for development of our proven undeveloped reserves, if any. These reports should not be construed as the current market value of our past assigned reserves. Because of the uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data, we cannot be certain that reserves, if any, will ultimately be realized. Our actual results could differ materially.
Third Party Reports
We did not have our properties independently assessed and evaluated for reserves and resources as of September 30, 2017.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
We did not have our properties independently assessed and evaluated for reserves and resources as of September 30, 2017. As of September 30, 2015, DeGolyer did assess and evaluate our properties for reserves and resources. Our Company reported no proved reserves as of September 30, 2015.
Reserves Reported to Other Agencies
We did not have our properties independently assessed and evaluated for reserves and resources as of September 30, 2017. Our Company is required to file a Statement of Reserves Data and Other Oil and Gas Information on Form 51-101F1 and any amendments with the Alberta Securities Commission pursuant to National Instrument 51-101 - Standard of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities, in which we reported no net oil reserves prepared in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook.
Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
On September 16, 2014, the first SAGD well pair started producing oil from our joint Sawn Lake oil sands properties. We received our first revenue late in September of 2014 from the sales of our produced oil. A majority of the Joint Venture partners voted to temporarily suspend operations for the SAGD Project at the end of February 2016. The following table discloses our 25% working interest share of production and average sales price for the last three fiscal years:
(1) Our Company’s working interest share before royalties.
(2) Currently all of our operating costs from the SAGD Project are being paid by the Farmee under the terms of the Farmout Agreement
Productive Wells
As of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 all of our producing wells were shut-in.
Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
The following table summarizes the results of our drilling activities in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017, 2016, and 2015.
Present Activities - Peace River Oil Sands, Alberta Canada (Sawn Lake Properties)
On February 15, 2018, we entered into a contribution agreement with a third-party to drill a well on one of our Sawn Lake oil sands leases in which we acquired cores and logs through the Bluesky formation. We and our advisors are currently analyzing the cores and logs.
In August of 2017, we jointly participated in drilling one well on our Sawn Lake properties. This well was drilled to a total depth of 681 meters.
Currently we have no wells in the process of being drilled. However, we have 11 exploratory wells on our Sawn Lake oil sands properties that we previously drilled and completed which are currently suspended. And in addition to the 11 exploratory wells, we also have one SAGD well pair which is temporarily shut-in.
As previously disclosed, on July 30, 2013, we are participating in a SAGD Project with our joint venture partners, whereby our Company holds a 25% working interest. The SAGD Project consists of one SAGD well pair drilled to an approximate depth of 650 meters and a horizontal length of 780 meters and the SAGD facility for steam generation, water handling, and bitumen treating. Steam injection commenced in May 2014 and production commenced on September 16, 2014. The SAGD Project was producing from September to the end of February 2016. In January and February of 2016, production from the SAGD Project reached a steady state average of 615 barrels per day (“bopd”), on a 100% basis (154 bopd net to us), with an average SOR of 2.1 from the one SAGD well pair. The early production results of the current SAGD Project successfully confirmed the capability of the Bluesky reservoir to produce using thermal recovery technology. A majority of our Company’s Joint Venture partners voted to temporarily suspend operations for the SAGD Project at the end of February 2016.
In early May of 2016, an amended application was submitted to the AER for an expansion of the existing SAGD Project facility site which would potentially increase the operations up to a total of eight SAGD well pairs. The amended application sought approval to expand the current SAGD Project facility site to 3,200 bopd (100% basis). It is anticipated that only five SAGD well pairs will be needed to achieve this production level. The AER approval for the expansion of the existing SAGD Project was granted on December 15, 2017. Currently, the SAGD Project continues to move forward with engineering and identification of long lead time items towards potential expansion to 3,200 bopd and future development at Sawn Lake. The SAGD Project expansion is dependent on, numerous factors including but not limited to, the approval of the joint venture partners.
As previously disclosed, on July 31, 2013, we entered into the Farmout Agreement. In accordance with the Farmout Agreement, the Farmee has agreed to provide up to $40,000,000 in funding for our portion of the costs for the SAGD Project, in return for a net 25% working interest in 12 sections where we had a working interest of 50% before the execution of the Farmout Agreement. The Farmee will also provide funding to cover monthly operating expenses of our Company, not to exceed $30,000 per month. The total share of the material costs and operating expenses of our Company’s joint SAGD Project, has been funded in accordance with the Farmout Agreement. As required by the Farmout Agreement, as of February 28, 2018, the Farmee has since reimbursed our Company and/or paid the operator approximately $21.5 million ($26.7 million Cdn) in total for the Farmee’s share and our share of the capital costs and operating expenses of the SAGD Project. These costs include the capital costs of the drilling and completion of one SAGD well pair; the purchase and transportation of equipment; installation and construction of the steam plant facility; testing and commissioning; the purchase of the water source and disposal wells; construction of pipelines and expenditures to connect and tie-in the source water wells to the steam plant facility along with a fuel source tie-in pipeline; equipment for processing and treating the bitumen production at the SAGD facility site; replacement of the electrical submersible pump; some front end costs for the expansion; and the start-up operating expenses associated with the steaming and production of one SAGD well pair.
Currently, we have in place joint operating agreements (our “Joint Operating Agreements”) with our joint venture partners to manage the operations of our joint oil sands leases. Under these agreements our joint oil sands leases were evaluated seismically, geologically and by drilling to establish the continuity and the distribution of the crude bituminous-bearing Bluesky reservoir zone across our joint lands. The development progress of our properties is governed by several factors such as federal and provincial governmental regulations. Long lead times in getting regulatory approval for thermal recovery projects are commonplace in our industry. Road bans, winter access only roads and environmental regulations can and often do delay development of similar projects. Because of these and other factors, our oil sands project can take significantly longer to complete than regular conventional drilling programs for lighter oil. To date, our geological, engineering and economic studies lead us to believe that our working interest can support future full profitable commercial production.
In August 2013, we received approval from the AER for our HCSS Project application. It is anticipated that we will develop a thermal demonstration project on our properties followed by a commercial expansion project on one half section of land located on section 10-92-13W5 of our Sawn Lake oil sands properties where we currently have a 90% working interest. This application, submitted in early 2012, was an application to modify our previously approved in-situ demonstration project for a well to test thermal production on our Sawn Lake oil sands leases. This modification changed the vertical CSS well earlier approved, into a thermal recovery project to test two wells that use a horizontal application of CSS. We received the final performance results and revised reservoir modeling studies from our current SAGD Project which will be used to fine-tune our HCSS Project facility design before we initiate start-up operations on the half of a section of land where we plan to drill two horizontal wells to test the use of HCSS technology. We performed an environmental field study and surveyed the proposed location of our planned HCSS Project site and recently received AER approval for the surface wellsite and access road for this project.
ITEM 3.