Item 2. Our Properties
As described in Item 1, Business, we own mineral prospects in Bolivia that we believe are prospectively valuable for mineral operations. These include:
The Tipuani-Cangalli prospects (discussed in paragraphs (a) and (b), below), and
The Precambrian Shield properties (discussed in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f), below).
The Rio Mojos properties (obtained subsequent to December 31, 2005) are discussed in paragraph (j) below.
(a) The Cangalli claims
In October 1995, we began reviewing potential mining opportunities in Bolivia. Thereafter, we conducted a site visit to the Tipuani Gold Mining District, which is approximately 62 miles north of the Bolivian capital of La Paz. Our representatives traveled to the town of Cangalli, approximately two kilometers down river from the town of Tipuani, a well-known gold mining center in Bolivia. We hired an independent geologist to evaluate the Cangalli area. This geologist reported that the area merited further study and was highly prospective for sizeable gold deposits.
(a)(1) Contract for exploration and mining on the Cangalli properties
Based on this favorable report, along with other pre-existing reports on the Tipuani/Cangalli area, in January 1996, through one of our now-inactive subsidiaries, we entered into an agreement with United Cangalli Gold Mining Cooperative, Ltd. (“United Gold Mining Cooperative”), a Bolivian cooperative consisting of 118 members. We operated under this contract from the date of its signing through July 2, 2002.
(a)(2) Purchase of the Cangalli properties from the United Gold Mining Cooperative
On July 2, 2002, we purchased 100% of all right, title and interest in and to the mining concessions comprising the Cangalli claims. In total, we purchased 5,125 acres. This purchase completely freed our Cangalli properties from any royalty whatsoever. We paid $300,000 in cash, 3,944,500 shares of our restricted common stock valued at $0.10 per share, and assumed $175,000 of United Gold Mining Cooperative’s existing debt payable by us over the course of 4 years. The United Gold Mining Cooperative debt has now been paid down to $77,359. These shares were issued for investment purposes to persons who were neither citizens nor residents of the United States in accordance with exemptions from registration found in Sections 4(2) and 4(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Regulation S.
We also agreed in a separate lease agreement to lease the use of the 1,000-foot deep Cangalli shaft back to the United Gold Mining Cooperative for a period of 99 years, with a 10% gross royalty on gold production back to us, so that the United Gold Mining Cooperative members not working for us could remain involved in gold mining in their own community.
The United Gold Mining Cooperative leadership distributed 35,000 shares of our common stock to each of their members. This distribution was accomplished in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S. During 2003, we issued the United Gold Mining Cooperative an additional 133,000 shares of our common stock valued at $22,610 to satisfy additional claims.
We paid one-time transfer taxes of $9,000 in the purchase. We also pay $2,075 per year to the Bolivian government in mining patent concession fees. In accordance with the Bolivian Mining Code, these annual government claims fees are our only obligation to be able to maintain our rights over the Cangalli claims in perpetuity.
(a)(3) Production from our Cangalli mine
We received an investment of $1.3 million in early 2002 to initiate a 1,000-tonne per day plant and to build out our interior mine infrastructure. On September 30, 2002, we commenced operations at our Cangalli gold mine at the rate of 1,000 tonnes per day from our open pit operation. By November 2002, we had increased our production capacity to 2,000 tonnes per day. By the end of the fourth quarter, December 31, 2002, we had processed 92,700 tonnes of ore, and had recovered 43,847 grams, or 1,410 troy ounces, of gold.
On February 10, 2003, we announced the conversion from our open pit operations to more cost-effective underground block caving from our interior mine while maintaining a production capacity of 2,000 tonnes per day.
During the second quarter of 2003, we received the necessary funding in the amount of approximately $600,000 to expand our production capacity from 2,000 tonnes per day to 3,500 tonnes per day. In July 2003, we completed construction of our 3,500 tonne per day plant and began processing material at an increased rate. We had projected that once we had reached 3,500 tonnes per day on a sustained basis, our Cangalli gold operation would reach and surpass the break even point, and would enter into a sustained positive cash flow. While we reached full capacity of 3,500 tonnes per day on a limited basis, we were unable to continue to produce at that level as a result of weather delays during the fourth quarter of 2003. We also encountered a phenomenon in the cemented conglomerate above the draw points in our block caving known as “doming” in which the ore would form large domes and cease to flow evenly to the draw points for extraction.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, we employed many different blasting techniques in an attempt to solve the issues involved with doming. However, due to the danger associated with the potential collapse of the domed areas while miners were working within them and because our studies have shown that the bedded paystreaks in the paleo-placer conglomerate deposits contain a higher gold grade per tonne of ore, we elected to focus our attention on the development of a more targeted mine plan.
During the first two quarters of 2004 we implemented a mining technique similar to a technique from the coal mining industry known as longwall mining where the high-grade portions of the gold deposit were mined along the plane. Initially, this mining took place along a 25-meter work face, and as the work face advances, the roof behind was allowed to collapse, or subside, in a controlled manner similar to longwalling now being used in the coal industry. During the first two quarters of 2004, we experienced a shakeout period on longwall production and we consistently achieved grades in the range of 3 grams per tonne. We made significant progress in developing this mining method and steadily increased longwall production. Our gold production at our Cangalli mine increased by nearly 11% from the first quarter 2004 to the second quarter 2004 as a result of the increase in our recovered grade from longwall mining.
On June 25, 2004, we announced we had temporarily ceased mining operations at our Cangalli mine and plant as a result of road blockades by local citizens protesting various government policies in Caranavi, Bolivia, a town half way between La Paz and our Cangalli mine. The roadblocks prevented the delivery of needed supplies and materials to the mine for operations. The same blockade, approximately 80 miles from Cangalli, also hampered operations of the power sub-station in Guanay, Bolivia. This sub-station provides electricity to our Cangalli operation, and the power failures halted all mining and processing activities.
During June 2004, before the strike issues were settled, we ceased gold mining operations at our Cangalli property also as a result of issues that arose among the United Gold Mining Cooperative that had sold us a 5,000-acre mining concession, and FENCOMIN, the Bolivian governmental regulator of cooperatives, as well as other Bolivian regulators. The legal issues involving the United Gold Mining Cooperative had nothing whatsoever to do with us. The most pressing legal dispute between the United Gold Mining Cooperative and the Bolivian governmental regulators involved the United Gold Mining Cooperative’s mandatory contributions to the National Mining Pension Fund that were in arrears and the failure of the United Gold Mining Cooperative to observe legal formalities regarding its formation, registration and ongoing operation. These legal disputes, while having nothing to do with us, created an insecure atmosphere at our Cangalli gold mine and raised serious questions about whether formal intervention would occur and substantially hamper operations.
Although the issues surrounding the local farmers’ strike have been settled, the issues relating to the United Gold Mining Cooperative continue to be a threat to our ability to continue mining operations on our Cangalli claim. To date, no court in Bolivia has ruled on these issues.
(a)(4) Cangalli reserves
As a result of the suspension of operations at our Cangalli mine and our inability to reasonably forecast when or if we will be able to resume operations at Cangalli, we will no longer estimate proven and probable gold reserves on our Cangalli claims. If at some point we are able to resume operations at Cangalli, we hope to be able to again estimate reserves. We can however, offer no guarantee that in the future we will be able to estimate reserves on our Tipuani-Cangalli claims.
(b) The Tipuani prospect
In November 1999 and October 2000, we acquired four mining claims in the Tipuani Gold Mining District, surrounding our Cangalli claims, 62 miles north of La Paz, Bolivia, with a total acreage of approximately 69,000 acres. Our initial geological studies conducted in 2000 indicated that these properties were highly prospective for gold deposits similar to that found on the Cangalli Properties. In exchange for the mining claims, we committed to pay to the Bolivian government annual fees of $27,825. In accordance with the Bolivian Mining Code, these annual government claims fees are our only obligation to be able to maintain our rights over these properties in perpetuity.
During 2004, we announced that as a result of geological reconnaissance work further identifying and mapping the gold bearing conglomerate material in the paleochannel of the ancient Tipuani River basin, we reduced our landholdings in the Tipuani properties from 74,000 acres (116 square miles) to 49,900 acres (78 square miles). As a result of this reduction, we reduced our obligation to pay concession patent fees, and we now have a more focused approach to its exploration activities in the pay streaks in the paleochannel found on its gold concessions in the area. We do not believe that the reduction in acreage resulted in the loss of any valuable mineralized area.
At December 31, 2004, we also owned 44,900 acres in the Tipuani prospect (not including the 5,000-acre Cangalli claim) covering an 18-mile section of the ancient paleo-channel of the Tipuani River system. This area is not affected by the dispute between the United Gold Mining Cooperative and the Bolivian government and we are investigating the possibility of moving our recovery plant to an alternate site on our property. If we were to abandon our current mine site, we may have to write off certain mining claims and development costs. Should we ever be able to resume mining on the 5,000-acre Cangalli claim, we will incur substantial startup costs, for which we currently do not have sufficient funding.
To maintain our claim to the mineral rights on the property under our control, we must pay the government approximately $.40 per acre per year in mining claims fees. In order to reduce costs we studied the minimum amount of acreage we must maintain on our Tipuani-Cangalli claims in order to maintain the integrity of our deposit and mine plans. As a result of this study, we reduced our claims to approximately 7,000 acres, which results in a claim fee of approximately $3,000 per year. We have maintained a portion of our claims in the paleo-channel, which we intend to mine and we do not believe that this reduction will limit our production if and when we are able to resume mining in the Tipuani-Cangalli area. The acreage on which we reduced our claims is primarily a buffer zone that would insulate us from any adjacent claims. During 2006, we made all mining claim payments for 2006.
(c) History of the Cangalli and the Tipuani Gold Mining District of Bolivia
Gold mining in the Tipuani Gold Mining District, in which the Cangalli and Tipuani properties are found, can be traced back to pre-Inca times (1000 to 1500 A.D.) During the Inca dominion, natives worked gold placers in the Tipuani River and her tributary rivers, the Ancoma and Yani, and also in the gold-bearing quartz veins of the Cordillera in the high Andes Mountains.
Gold mining continued in the Tipuani Gold Mining District after the Spanish Conquest up through modern times.Due to the perceived near-exhaustion of the best-known deposits of river gravels, many people have abandoned the Tipuani area. Lately, others have been trying to work the remaining river areas and terraces, while making some technical improvements such as deeper shafts and better underground workings. Historical sources have estimated that the total production of gold from the Tipuani District may reach figures close to 200 tonnes of gold for each of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. It was near 200 tonnes for the 19th century and about 500 tonnes for the 20th century. For its known history of almost 1,000 years of mining, according to these historical sources, the Tipuani District may have produced no less than 1,000 metric tonnes of gold, or more than 32 million troy ounces
(d) The Precambrian prospect.
In June of 2001, we acquired four mining claims in Bolivia’s Precambrian Shield with a total acreage of approximately 125,000 acres, as well as the existing reports on the area, for 10 million shares of our common restricted stock valued at $300,000 ($0.03 per share). These shares were issued to persons who were not United States citizens or residents for investment purposes in accordance with exemptions from registration found in Section 4(2) and 4(6) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Regulation S. The size of our holding in the Precambrian Shield of Bolivia has decreased as we have reduced the size of our concessions with the Bolivian government, and increased as we have acquired new prospects.
We pay $54,600 per year to the Bolivian government in mining patent fees for our Precambrian Prospect. In accordance with the Bolivian Mining Code, these annual government claims fees are our only obligation we have to be able to maintain our rights over these properties in perpetuity.
Our geologists explored these prospects and found them to be highly prospective for extensive near surface gold mineralization and deeper mineralized volcanogenic massive sulphides (“VMS”) systems containing gold and copper.
(e) Buen Futuro claim
(e)(1) Acquisition
We purchased the Buen Futuro claim and all technical information that had been generated about the property from Celia Calla de Arraya, a Bolivian, and her son-in-law, Dr. Michael H. Biste, a geologist who has worked extensively in the area, in June 2003. We amended the contract in December 2003 and March 2005. The terms of the acquisition included a 3% net smelter return, payments of $50,000 cash and shares of our restricted common stock valued at $75,000, and a promise to make the following additional payments:
Payable Paid Remaining
Due 2005 Cash $200,000 $160,000 $40,000
Due 2005 Shares $100,000 $100,000 $0
As of December 31, 2005, we have made all required payments under the contract with the exception of $40,000 that we intend to pay during the first quarter of 2006. Under the agreement with Mrs. Calla de Arraya and Dr. Biste, we undertook several obligations in addition to the payment obligations described above. These obligations included:
o
Our agreement to maintain an exploration program to replace mineral reserves as they are depleted through mining as long as the potential for feasible mineral reserves continues on the ore deposits found within the Buen Futuro concession.
o
Our agreement to invest $1 million in exploration by November 23, 2006. We have expended approximately $564,000 to date that we believe may be applied to this commitment. We will only be able to meet the remainder of this commitment if we receive a significant amount of additional financing, which cannot be assured.
o
Our original agreement required us to enter into mineral production on the Buen Futuro concession by May 23, 2005, and to expend a minimum of $2,000,000 to initiate that production. We believe that the acquisition of the Gold Bar mill and plant for $3,600,000 will satisfy this investment requirement if we are able to obtain financing and begin construction. On May 20, 2005 we entered into an amended agreement with the seller whereby we agreed that if we were not in production at Buen Futuro by November 23, 2005 we were required to pay a penalty of $1,500 per month to the seller until we enter production or until November 23, 2006. If by November 26, 2006 we are still not in production, the penalty amount payable to the seller increases to $3,000 per month.
There are no other stated penalties for failure to comply with these commitments. The initial build-out of the gold plant and other infrastructure improvements will require a capital investment of approximately $10,000,000. As the sellers of the property are now major shareholders, we believe that they may assist us in bringing the claim into production.
(e)(2) The Buen Futuro Mining Claim.
On May 30, 2003, we signed a Letter of Intent to acquire 100% of the Buen Futuro mining claim located squarely in the center of our 125,000-acre landholding in a geological area within eastern Bolivia known as the “Precambrian Shield.” This area, which resulted during a geological time known as the Precambrian Era, is located 162 miles north of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and 11 miles east of the town of Ascension de Guarayos. The Buen Futuro claim consists of 2,500 acres and contains three well-identified gold/copper ore bodies. These ore bodies are found in an oxide zone 130 to 200 feet thick, as well as a layer known in geological terms as a “supergene,” which is a copper-enriched zone extending from the oxide zone to a depth of 320 feet, sitting on top of a mineral deposit enriched in sulphide minerals by volcanic activity controlled on both sides by harder material, which is referred to in geological terms as “VMS mineralization.” We exercised our rights to purchase the Buen Futuro property in June 2003. A private contract, as well as a recorded public contract, were signed and filed with the Superintendency of Mines of the Department of Santa Cruz on December 12, 2003.
We believe that the Buen Futuro gold/copper deposits, surrounded by our Precambrian claims, are just part of a much larger trend of VMS clusters that run both north and south within our 136,500 acres. A recent study was carried out on the prospect by Dr. Michael Biste, one of our consultants who is an expert on the Precambrian geology of eastern Bolivia. The exploration data resulted from the northern part of the company’s Dos Piyos claim, and the southwest portion of the Cobra claim. Both properties cover the northern part of the Ascension Gold-Copper Trend and the investigated ground comprised 23 square miles. Dr. Biste prepared a remote sensing study consisting of an interpretation of satellite images, aerial photographs, and open file airborne magnetic and radiometric data. He further reexamined historic reconnaissance exploration data of the two claims and applied modern computer based methods for an integrated data interpretation. In addition, Dr. Biste used the results of geological mapping over 44 linear miles, magnetic ground surveys of over 9 miles and soil sampling over a distance of 18 miles, as well as Horizontal Loop Electromagnetic (HLEM) data along two extensive test lines. Despite the wide line spacing of 0.6 miles, Dr. Biste was able to identify a geological setting with characteristics very similar to the host rock of the Buen Futuro (formerly Miguela) volcanogenic massive sulfide (VMS) mineralization. Buen Futuro is located 12 miles southwest of the investigated area. The HLEM survey so far has confirmed three parallel striking conductors, which Dr. Biste believes represent a primary VMS mineralization that is covered by an oxide layer at least 30 meters deep. The lateritic soil at the surface carries geochemically anomalous values for gold, copper and zinc. Our summary study covers 3.6 miles of the Trend and the remote sensing data shows that the favorable VMS lithology strikes further to the northeast. We consider these findings to be a significant step toward identifying new gold-copper mineralization similar to the Buen Futuro ore bodies. Dr. Biste believes that fieldwork will continue to demonstrate that the Ascension Gold-Copper Trend is now likely to extend over at least 21 linear miles within our Precambrian properties.
We believe that this acquisition, and our current landholding in the Ascension Gold-Copper Trend, provide us with several important opportunities for future development; however, such opportunities are contingent upon our ability to raise the needed development capital either through operations, equity funding, debt financing or by entering into joint venture relationships.
The Buen Futuro VMS mineralization was initially identified by Dr. Biste through geochemical surveys, and subsequently confirmed using Induced Polarization (IP) and (HLEM) surveys. Eventually, between 1993 and 1997, 800 miles of exploration trails were cut through the jungle to take a total of 21,000 samples on the Buen Futuro and surrounding areas. A total of 8,400 feet of auger drilling was performed initially, with 11,000 feet of additional reverse circulation drilling and 27,000 feet of diamond core drilling. A total of 8 miles of trenches were dug and 5,500 trench samples were taken and analyzed.
We own the underlying mineral rights on the Buen Futuro project through the purchase of mineral concession rights that had been granted by the Bolivian government. However, we had to purchase the surface land rights before we could actually begin to disturb the surface with mining and development activities. We have purchased 585 acres of surface rights covering the areas that we intend to mine in the Buen Futuro A Zone, as well as all areas necessary for the location of our mill, recovery plant, fresh water ponds, tailings impoundments and mine camp site. As other surface rights become necessary, we expect to acquire those rights under reasonable terms also.
(e)(3) Buen Futuro reserves
In February of 2004 we announced estimated mineral reserves on our Buen Futuro prospect in eastern Bolivia. A component of that reserve estimation pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Industry Guide 7 was that a mineral reserve is “that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.” During the third quarter of 2005, we received an inquiry from the Securities and Exchange Commission questioning the validity of continuing to classify the mineralization on the Buen Futuro prospect as reserves due to the perception that our resource and reserve report on this prospect may not reach the level of a feasibility report.
We have determined that in connection with our Securities and Exchange Commission reporting obligations, we will no longer estimate proven and probable gold and copper reserves on our Buen Futuro prospect until it is economically feasible for us to project with a high degree of certainty when we will be able to extract or produce those reserves based on our ability to finance such operations. We cannot offer any assurance when, if ever, we will obtain the necessary financing to complete the development of the Buen Futuro prospect which will enable us to commence production.
(f) Gold Bar mill and plant
On June 18, 2004, we entered into a purchase agreement with Atlas Precious Metals, Inc. for the purchase of the Gold Bar mill and gold recovery plant located 27 miles northeast of Eureka, Nevada. In exchange for the Gold Bar mill and plant, we issued to Atlas Precious Metals 30,000,000 shares of our restricted common stock valued at $.12 per share based on the closing price of the stock on the closing date or a total purchase price of $3,600,000. Upon raising the necessary capital, we intend to dismantle, ship and re-erect this plant on our Buen Futuro site in eastern Bolivia. We estimate the time to dismantle the plant, transport it to Bolivia and re-erect it on our Buen Futuro claim will be approximately eight months from the time we raise the necessary financing. We estimate the cost to dismantle, ship and re-erect the plant on our Buen Futuro claim to be approximately $3.5 million.
Prior to completing the purchase of the Gold Bar mill, we received a fairness opinion prepared by H.E. Dunham & Associates. The opinion from H.E. Dunham & Associates determined the economic fairness of the Gold Bar mill transaction to our shareholders. The reported estimated a replacement value on the Gold Bar mill and plant at $12 million. This report also provided an estimated cost to build a similar-sized new gold and copper recovery plant with its associated new equipment, engineering and construction costs at between $45 million and $50 million in today’s dollars. The report also included three comparable acquisition transactions of similar size and capacity, which were used as comparison to our acquisition of the Gold Bar mill and plant. These included the Carr Fork facility located at Tooele, Utah, which sold for $7.0 million and the Quintana facility, located at Truth or Consequences, New Mexico, which sold for $8.5 million to OK Tedi Mining Company in 1986 dollars; while the 4,000 tonne per day Paradise Peak Gold Facility located at Gabbs, Nevada is currently on the market for $18 million. The report stated that the “acquisition of the Gold Bar Mill is most beneficial to the Company at a good price.” Finally, H.E. Dunham & Associates expressed the opinion that the “transaction is economically fair to Golden Eagle International, Inc., Atlas and their shareholders.” Atlas offered to sell the Gold Bar plant to us, at what we feel was a discounted price, as a result of its desire to participate in the mining of gold and copper at Buen Futuro. The Gold Bar plant was a perfect fit for our needs and was not at the time processing ore from the Gold Bar mine.
In accordance with the original Asset Purchase Agreement between Atlas and us, we agreed to move all Gold Bar assets of the property located near Eureka, Nevada within twelve months from the date of the agreement. As it was apparent that we were to fail to remove the assets by this date, Atlas had the right to either allow us to store the assets on site or terminate the agreement and return the purchase price to us. While we believed that Atlas did not intend to terminate the agreement, we could not guarantee that they would not do so. As a result of the possibility of the termination of the agreement and the return of the assets to Atlas, we moved the $3,600,000 purchase price of the plant from property and equipment to a non-operating non-current asset section on the December 31, 2004 balance sheet. We also moved the $3,600,000 that we issued in stock from the additional paid in capital to a mezzanine liability section. On May 19, 2005 we entered into an amended asset purchase agreement with Atlas in order to remove from the original purchase agreement the requirement that the Gold Bar Mill and plant be removed from the site within a specified time period. Under this agreement, we issued an additional 20,000,000 shares of restricted common stock at $.019 per share or $380,000 as an addition to the purchase price of the Gold Bar mill and plant. By means of this agreement, we removed any cloud relating to our ownership of the Gold Bar mill and plant. As a result, during the second quarter 2005, we reclassified the Gold Bar mill and plant as a fixed asset and reclassified the stock issued as well as the additional shares granted under the amended agreement as additional paid in capital.
(g) Cobra claim
On December 22, 2003, we completed the acquisition of the Cobra claim, an additional 22,500 acres of prime ground in the Ascension Gold-Copper Trend in eastern Bolivia’s Precambrian Shield. The Cobra claim has proven positive for volcanogenic massive sulphide (“VMS”) deposits containing gold and copper, as well as near-surface gold oxide deposits. Induced polarization (IP) and Horizontal Loop Electromagnetic (HLEM) surveys, as well as scout auger drilling, have yielded positive results in an area extending to the northeast of our previous 111,500-acre landholding.
We secured the Cobra claim through a Bolivian mining petition and paid initial claims fees of $10,000. To maintain the property in perpetuity, we must pay annual concession patent fees to the Bolivian government of $9,000.
(h) Rio Mojos concession
After our 2005 year-end, on January 3, 2006, we announced that we had signed a joint-venture contract for the development of the Rio Mojos gold project 250 miles north of La Paz, Bolivia. We will own 94% of the joint-venture project, while the landowner will own the other 6%, which will entitle him to a 6% net smelter return on minerals recovered. The Rio Mojos gold project will become our third major project in Bolivia, building on our relationships and knowledge base in the country. The Rio Mojos gold project area covers 7,163 acres along a 25-mile section of the Mojos River. Based on existing geological studies, three distinct types of mineralization occur within the project area: gold bearing alluvial gravels in the current river channel, beaches and terraces; gold bearing cemented conglomerates in ancient terraces formed above the current river system; and, primary quartz and pyrite gold deposits at the headwaters of the Mojos River.
(i) Office leases
On August 1, 2005, we moved our executive offices in Salt Lake City, Utah to 9661 South 700 East, Salt Lake City, Utah 84070. This suite of offices consists of four executive offices, reception space, filing areas and copy and faxing facilities. We pay $1,395 per month on a three-year, renewable lease. Although the lease expires in July 2008, we are allowed to terminate the lease at the end of one year for a $2,790 penalty and at the end of year two for a $1,395 penalty. This lease results in a reduction of our monthly lease rate to $1,395 per month from $1,920 per month. We have also entered into a short-term lease on a new smaller office in La Paz, Bolivia for $180 per month, which expires in July 2006. We also lease 150 square meters of office space in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, which we consider our Bolivian headquarters. This lease, which expires October 31, 2006, is for $500 per month.
Location
Size
Monthly Rent
Lease Expiration
Salt Lake City, UT
1,183 square feet
$1,395
July 31, 2008
Santa Cruz, Bolivia
150 square meters
July 10, 2006
La Paz Bolivia
42 square meters
October 31, 2006
$2,075
Our operating subsidiary, Golden Eagle International Inc. Bolivia, owns the mining and processing equipment which is located on the Cangalli claim under its control, or at its warehouse in El Alto, Bolivia, 15 kilometers from its La Paz offices and in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. This equipment includes heavy earthmoving equipment and general support equipment for the mining industry. In addition, Golden Eagle Bolivia owns equipment acquired from the United Gold Mining Cooperative, which includes mining equipment, real property in proximity to the Cangalli shaft, as well as the dwellings found thereon, two warehouses, the mine shaft head frame, a mine hoist, assorted pumps, an electric generating set, all electrical installations, an inventory of parts, assorted tools, mine rail and cars, two double-deck shaker screens, and various other pieces of mining equipment. Golden Eagle Bolivia also owns various support vehicles and trucks. We believe that all of this equipment and the vehicles are in good condition, suitable for use in our mining operations in Cangalli or Buen Futuro.
Item 3.