ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
PRINCIPAL OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
The Company owns interests in a number of producing oil and gas properties located along the Louisiana Gulf Coast. At December 31, 1996, the Company served as the operator of all properties in which it held an interest except for WCBB. See "Principal Oil and Gas Properties -- West Cote Blanche Bay" for 1997
activity. See description of WCBB and 1997 activity in field descriptions following this table. The following table presents certain information as of December 31, 1996 respecting the Company's net interest in its producing oil and gas properties, including those held through joint ventures.
- ---------------
(1) Substantially all properties are located in south Louisiana.
(2) Represents proved reserves attributable to properties as estimated by independent petroleum engineers. See Note 20 to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."
Abbeville Field. The Abbeville Field, purchased in March 1995 and situated on dry land near Abbeville in Vermillion Parish, Louisiana, was first discovered by Continental Oil Company ("Conoco") in 1939. The Company acquired approximately 70% of the working interest before payout (approximately 67% after payout) with an average net revenue interest ("NRI") of approximately 54% before payout (51% after payout) in approximately 60 gross acres, in the field. The three tracts acquired contain varying depth limitations. In one tract the Company acquired only the rights below 9,550 feet. Another tract is limited to depths from the surface down to 13,000 feet. The third tract contains both leases without depth limitations and leases with depth limited from the surface down to 13,000 feet. The two wells in the Abbeville Field produce primarily gas. During 1995, the Company successfully recompleted one gas well in the Abbeville Field. During 1996, both of the wells were recompleted to new producing horizons but one of the wells produced only a minimal amount of gas before depleting.
Bayou Penchant. The Bayou Penchant Field, purchased in January 1995, consists of approximately 1,360 gross acres of leases, and includes nine producing wells, three shut-in wells and one salt water disposal well in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana. The Company's working interest is 100% (approximately 86% average NRI) in all but one well, the CL&F No 7 well in which the Company's working interest is approximately 70% (59% NRI). The Bayou Penchant Field is located in a marshy area with existing dredged canals and produces primarily gas from multiple productive zones, ranging in depth from 2,400 to 10,400 feet. During 1995, there were eight successful gas zone recompletion attempts in the Bayou Penchant Field and no failures. In addition, two development wells were drilled, one resulting in a dry hole and the other successfully completed as a producing gas well. During 1996, two wells were the subject of unsuccessful recompletion attempts. Both of these operations involved the use of relatively low cost "through-tubing" techniques utilizing wireline equipment to perform the operations. A third well was also targeted for the use of similar procedures but the intended operations were aborted when it was discovered that the well's production tubing was damaged.
Bayou Pigeon Field. The Bayou Pigeon Field, purchased in March 1995, consists of approximately 1,490 gross acres located in the marshy coastal waters on both sides of Little Bayou Pigeon in Iberia Parish, Louisiana. The Company has a 100% working interest in thirteen wells (eleven producing and two shut in wells, approximately 80% average NRI). The Company initially believed they owned a 100% working interest in three additional wells in the Bayou Pigeon Field; however, subsequent to December 31, 1995, the Company
received notice from a third party claiming that the Company's title has failed as to approximately 43 acres. If it is ultimately determined that the Company's title has failed, the Company's working interest in these three wells would be reduced to approximately 7% (5% NRI), 75% (63% NRI) and 95% (72% NRI), respectively. The Company's financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1996 reflect operating results and proved reserves for the reduced working and net revenue interests. As the title failure predates its ownership of the field, the Company is currently evaluating its recourse against the predecessors-in-title relative to this issue. Production from the Bayou Pigeon Field is predominately oil from multiple productive zones at depths ranging from 6,900 to 12,000 feet. During 1995, three successful gas zone and three successful oil zone recompletions were performed in the Bayou Pigeon Field with one attempt being unsuccessful. One new development well was successfully drilled for previously untapped reserves and completed as a producing oil well. During 1996, one well was successfully recompleted.
Deer Island Field. The Deer Island Field, purchased in March 1995, is located in marshy, inland waters in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana and is accessed by workboat through dredged canals. The Company acquired a 100% working interest (approximately 73% NRI before payout and 66% thereafter) in approximately 412 acres comprised of two non-contiguous lease blocks in the Deer Island Field. Current production from the southern lease block is primarily gas from multiple producing zones at depths ranging from 8,200 to 10,200 feet. The two wells in the northern lease block produce from an oil sand at a depth of approximately 10,350 feet. The interests in both tracts were originally acquired through two separate subleases from Exxon. In the southern lease block, the interest is composed of three tracts with varying depth limitations, with the greatest depth being approximately 10,500 feet. Exxon retained the rights below 10,500 feet and Exxon or other producers own the rights to the other outstanding depths. In the northern lease block, the interest is limited to depths between the surface and 10,720 feet. During 1996, LLOG Exploration Company completed a new well into a unit in which the Company holds an interest. Although not yet approved by the State of Louisiana, the Company expects to ultimately hold a minimum working interest of approximately 38.9% (34% NRI) of production from this unit.
East Hackberry Field. In February 1994, the Company purchased a 100% working interest (approximately 82% average NRI) in certain producing oil and gas properties situated in the East Hackberry Field in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. The purchase included two separate lease blocks, the Erwin Heirs Block, originally developed by Gulf Oil Company and the Texaco State Lease ("S/L") 50 Block, originally developed by Texaco, Inc. The East Hackberry Field is located along the western shore of Lake Calcasico in Cameron Parish, Louisiana approximately 80 miles west of Lafayette and 15 miles inland from the Gulf of Mexico. The properties cover approximately 3,582 acres of oil and gas leases, together with 22 productive wells and 63 shut-in wells that were originally drilled by Gulf Oil Company and Texaco.
In September 1994, the Company sold an overriding royalty interest in certain producing oil and gas wells situated in the East Hackberry Field to Milam Royalty Corporation ("Milam"). On an aggregate basis the overriding royalty interests provide for payment to Milam of 62.5% of 80% (equal to 50% on a 100% working interest basis) of the net profits attributable to the wells covered by the arrangement until Milam recovers 150% of its cash investment and 46.875% of 80% thereafter (equal to 37.5% on a 100% working interest basis). Related agreements further provide that for an additional royalty purchase price based on the then effective percentage described in the two preceding sentences of the Company's future cost of drilling new wells or recompleting existing wells in new reservoirs (and subject to certain limitations stated in such agreements), Milam may elect to retain an identical royalty interest in the new wells. The Company retains complete operational control over the East Hackberry Field. During 1995, the Company made 20 successful oil zone recompletions and one successful gas zone recompletion. Seven such recompletion attempts proved to be unsuccessful. In addition, the Company attempted three sidetracks, two of which were completed successfully as oil wells and one of which missed the geological objective resulting in a dry hole. During 1996, three wells were successfully recompleted. Additionally, operations were conducted to convert six wells in this field to gas-lift. Two wells were the subject of unsuccessful recompletion attempts.
Golden Meadow Field. The Golden Meadow Field, purchased in March 1995, is located in marshy, inland waters in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana and was discovered by Texaco in 1961. The portion of the Golden Meadow Field in which the Company owns a 100% working interest (approximately 79% average
NRI) covers approximately 171 acres. The Golden Meadow Field is presently producing from a gas bearing sand at a depth of approximately 12,500 feet. During 1996, the sole producing well in Golden Meadow was reworked to repair a downhole mechanical failure. This work was successful and the well was restored to production.
Lac Blanc Field. The Lac Blanc Field, purchased in July 1993, consists of 4,841 gross acres and underlies a marsh and shoreline near the community of Pecan Island in Vermilion Parish, Louisiana and was first discovered in 1975. The Company purchased a 91% average working interest (55% average NRI) in acreage within the Lac Blanc Field from an affiliate of Freeport-McMoRan, Inc. The sellers retained a 20% back-in working interest in any new wells drilled in previously undeveloped fault blocks. The field has produced approximately 150 Bcf of gas and 1.1 MMBbls of oil since its discovery, but in recent years it has experienced substantial production declines, which were accompanied by substantial increases in water production rates. Three unsuccessful attempts were made during 1995 to restore production to this field and compensate for the reduced gas volumes caused by the unexpected onset of water production. Two workover attempts were made in the Exxon Fee No. 23 well. A split in the casing ultimately resulted in the loss of future utility in the well. During 1996, one "through-tubing" recompletion was attempted but this operation was aborted due to encountered obstructions in the well's production tubing.
In connection with the purchase of the Lac Blanc Field, the Company established a plugging and abandonment escrow arrangement. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Commitments and Contingencies."
Napoleonville Field. In December 1994, the Company purchased from BSFI Western E&P, Inc. ("BSFI") a 100% working interest (approximately 75% average NRI) in approximately 300 acres of leases within the Napoleonville Field. Three producing wells, two shut-in wells and one saltwater disposal well are located within the Company's lease acreage. The Napoleonville Field is located in Assumption Parish, Louisiana on dry land and produces primarily oil from multiple pay zones which range in depth from 9,500 to 10,000 feet. The Company's interest in the Napoleonville Field was purchased in exchange for the issuance of 1,300,000 shares of its Common Stock. During 1995, three unsuccessful attempts were made to recomplete two shut-in wells in this field.
During 1995, the Company purchased for approximately $1,200,000 and $600,000, respectively, certain additional leasehold acreage in the Napoleonville Field and saltwater disposal facilities from BSFI. At the time of the purchase, BSFI, as a 5.5% shareholder of the Company, was a related party. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
West Hackberry Field. In November 1992, the Company purchased a 100% working interest (approximately 80% average NRI) in acreage within the West Hackberry Field, in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. The field was discovered in 1928 and was developed by Superior Oil Company (now Mobil) between 1938 and 1988. In connection with its purchase of the East Hackberry Field properties, the Company purchased a 7.5% overriding royalty interest in its West Hackberry Field that was previously retained by the original seller of the property. As a result, the Company's net revenue interest in the West Hackberry Field increased from approximately 80% to approximately 87.5%, effective March 1, 1994.
West Cote Blanche Bay Field. TEPI, the operator of WCBB prior to March 1997, discovered the WCBB field in 1938. This field lies approximately five miles off the coast of Louisiana in St. Mary Parish in a shallow bay, with water depths averaging seven to eight feet, and overlies one of the largest salt dome structures on the Gulf Coast. The Company acquired from TEPI a 6.25% working interest in the WCBB in July 1988. In April 1995, the Company completed the purchase of an additional 43.75% working interest in WCBB from an affiliate of Benton Oil and Gas Company and two affiliates of Tenneco, Inc. The sellers retained their interests in all depths below approximately 10,500 feet. Pursuant to the Plan, at the Effective Date, the Company acquired the remaining 50% working interest in WCBB in depths above the Rob "C" marker located at approximately 10,500 feet and became the operator of the field. During 1995, ten successful oil and three successful gas recompletions were made with two additional attempts being unsuccessful. Additionally, five new development oil wells and one new development gas well were drilled. One development well was unsuccessful. These success ratios are consistent with the Company's past experience in WCBB. During 1996,
nine successful oil recompletions and one successful gas recompletion were made with two attempts unsuccessful. One unsuccessful shallow attempt was also made. During 1997, the Company has successfully completed nine workovers and two new wells. Average production for the month of October was 1,354 BOPD, and recently reached a peak rate of 1,755 BOPD on October 6, 1997. The Company's engineers estimate total proved reserves from these eleven projects at approximately 1.0 MMBOE.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the Company's developed acreage at December 31, 1996. The Company did not own any undeveloped acreage at December 31, 1996.
- ---------------
(1) Developed acreage is acreage assigned to producing wells for the spacing unit of the producing formation. Developed acreage in certain of the Company's properties that include multiple formations with different well spacing requirements may be considered undeveloped for certain formations but have only been included as developed acreage in the presentation above. Certain acreage is subject to depth limitations.
The oil and gas leases in which the Company has an interest are for varying primary terms and may require the payment of delay rentals to continue the primary terms. The leases may be surrendered by the operator at any time by notice to the lessors, by the cessation of production or by failure to make timely payment of delay rentals. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Commitments and Contingencies -- Texaco Global Settlement."
DRILLING AND RECOMPLETION ACTIVITIES
The following table contains data with respect to certain of the Company's field operations during the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. The Company drilled no exploratory wells during the periods presented.
TITLE TO OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
It is customary in the oil and gas industry to make only a cursory review of title to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired and to obtain more extensive title examinations when acquiring producing properties. However, with respect to future undeveloped leasehold and producing property acquisitions, if any, the Company will conduct title examinations on material portions of such properties in a
manner generally consistent with industry practice. Certain of the Company's oil and gas properties may be subject to title defects, encumbrances, easements, servitudes or other restrictions, none of which, except as noted below, in management's opinion, will in the aggregate materially restrict the Company's operations.
During 1996, the Company received notice that a third party is claiming that the Company's title has failed with respect to approximately 43 acres in the Bayou Pigeon Field. Some or all of the acreage in dispute is considered to be productive in three separate production units. Under the assumption that the Company's title is flawed, the Company's working interest in three units may be reduced from 100% of each unit to approximately 7% (5% NRI), 74% (63% NRI), and 95% (72% NRI). Financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, reflect operating results and proved reserves discounted for this possible failure. As the title failure predates its ownership of the field, the Company is currently evaluating its recourse against the predecessors-in-title relative to this issue. The Company is currently negotiating a settlement with the third party pursuant to their claim.
RESERVES
The oil and gas reserve information set forth below represents only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices, and future production rates and costs. The following table sets forth estimates of the proved oil and gas reserves of the Company at December 31, 1996, as estimated by the Company's independent petroleum engineers, Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSAI"), reduced for the proved reserves attributable to the possible title failure of approximately 43 acres in the Bayou Pigeon Field. See "Title to Oil and Gas Properties" above.
Total reserves decreased to approximately 99 billion cubic feet equivalents ("Bcfe") at December 31, 1996, from approximately 107 Bcfe at December 31, 1995. The 1996 year-end estimates decreased from amounts previously reported due to production of approximately 7 Bcfe at December 31, 1996, and downward revisions by NSAI of previous estimates offset by upward revisions attributable to the general increase in oil and gas prices. The average price received for oil and gas during the first nine months of 1997 was $20.25 per bbl and $2.52 per Mcf, respectively.
The estimated future net revenues set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on economic conditions prevailing at December 31, 1996. The estimated future production is priced at December 31, 1996, without escalation using $26.07 per Bbl and $3.90 per Mcf. Additional information concerning the Company's oil and gas reserves and disclosure of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves (Unaudited) is set forth in the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
The 1995 year-end reserve estimates prepared by NSAI included significant downward revisions from previously reported volumes. Total reserves decreased from approximately 205 billion cubic feet equivalents ("Bcfe"), as previously reported on a pro forma basis in the Company's 1994 Annual Report after considering
the property acquisitions completed during 1995, to approximately 107 Bcfe at December 31, 1995. These year-end estimates decreased from amounts previously reported due to production of approximately 15 Bcfe and significant downward revisions by NSAI of previous estimates. Approximately 38 Bcfe of these revisions result from differences in professional opinion between NSAI and the Company's predecessor independent engineering firms, The Scotia Group, Huddleston & Co. and Veazey & Associates. These differences, many of which relate to classification of reserves within the different oil and gas reserve categories (i.e. proved, probable and possible) are due to the numerous engineering, geological and operational assumptions that generally are derived from limited data. Common assumptions, which involve the exercise of subjective professional judgment, include such matters as the arial extent and average thickness of a particular reservoir, the average porosity and permeability of the reservoir, the anticipated future production from existing and future wells, future development and production costs, and the ultimate hydrocarbon recovery percentage. Additional downward revisions are attributed to field development activity and production data during the year. Drilling and recompletion activities, including the unsuccessful well projects in the Company's East Hackberry and Bayou Penchant fields resulted in significant reserve losses. The mechanical failure of the Exxon Fee #23 well and the increased water production from the field also had a negative effect on the Company's reserves at December 31, 1995. These events, coupled with revised geological interpretation utilizing recent well performance and reservoir data available, resulted in the further downward revision of approximately 45 Bcfe.
In compliance with federal law, the Company files annual reports with the Energy Information Agency of the U S. Department of Energy with respect to its production of oil and gas during each calendar year and its estimated oil and gas reserves at the end of each year. The reserve values set forth above and in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements attached hereto may vary within five percent from the estimates previously provided to the Department of Energy by the Company due to the Company's practice of including in its report to the U.S. Department of Energy all oil and gas production and reserves attributable to wells for which the Company serves as operator.
PRODUCTION, PRICES AND COSTS
The Company sells its oil and gas at the wellhead and does not refine petroleum products. Other than normal production facilities, the Company does not own an interest in any bulk storage facilities or pipelines. As is customary in the industry, the Company sells its production in any one area to relatively few purchasers, including transmission companies that have pipelines near the Company's producing wells. Gas purchase contracts are generally on a short-term "spot market" basis and usually contain provisions by which the prices and delivery quantities for future deliveries will be determined. The majority of the Company's crude oil production is sold on 30-day "evergreen" contracts with prices based on postings plus a premium. The following table contains certain historical data respecting the average sales prices received and the average production costs incurred by the Company during the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994.
Percentages of revenues from oil and gas sales to specific customers representing 10% or more of annual oil and gas revenues are recapped below:
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
As part of management's plans to reduce operating costs and overhead, in March 1996 the Company relocated its principal offices to Lafayette, Louisiana, occupying approximately 12,000 square feet of leased premises. In February 1996, the Company moved its corporate office from The Woodlands, Texas, where it occupied approximately 24,000 square feet, to Houston, Texas, where it occupied approximately 7,000 square feet of leased space until June 24, 1997 at which time the Houston office was closed. In connection with the Reorganization Case, the Court approved the Company's rejection of the office lease in The Woodlands, Texas. Rentals under such leases aggregated approximately $257,000 and $28,000 during 1995 and 1996, respectively. The Woodlands Corporation ("TWC") filed a Secured Claim in the amount of $250,000 in connection with the rejection of this lease alleging the Claim is secured by the value of certain office equipment and furniture pledged by WRT. The value of such collateral is substantially less than the asserted Secured Claim; therefore, WRT filed an objection to TWC's Secured Claim to the extent that such Claim amount exceeds the value of the collateral. On April 22, 1997, the Bankruptcy Court granted the claimant an allowed secured claim in the amount of $118,000 and an allowed unsecured claim in the amount of $150,000.
The Company owns an industrial building located in Lafayette, Louisiana with approximately 12,500 square feet of office, warehouse and shop space. This space currently houses the Company's well logging technology.
The Company's cased hole logging equipment includes two wireline logging trucks with complete mobile laboratories, two skid mounted wireline units with mobile laboratories, four sets of small diameter radioactive well logging tools, five sets of large diameter radioactive well logging tools, and all necessary wireline and pressure control equipment for onshore and offshore well logging.
ITEM 3.