Item 2. Properties
Principal Oil and Gas Properties
Gulfport owns interests in a number of producing oil and gas properties located along the Louisiana Gulf Coast. The following is a map showing the locations of the Company's principal oil and gas properties.
(Map Omitted)
The Company serves as the operator of all the properties in which it holds a working interest with the exception of the Texaco well and deep rights at West Cote Blanche Bay. The following table presents certain information as of January 1, 2000, reflecting the Company's net interest in its producing oil and gas properties.
(1) The following wells produce on an intermittent basis: East Hackberry - 7; West Hackberry - 0; and West Cote Blanche Bay - 37. (2) All of the Company's acreage is Developed Acreage. (3) Includes 1 producing well and 3 shut-in wells attributable to depths below the Rob "C" Marker ("Deep Rights"). The Company has a 7.45% non- operated working interest (5.84% NRI) in the Deep Rights. The Deep Rights are operated by Texaco Exploration and Production, Inc. (4) In the future, the Company will have to plug and abandon almost 500 wellbores. The Company's strategy to meet this obligation is to plug at least twenty wells a year and to invest in plugging escrow accounts. The Company continually deposits money in the West Cote Blanche Bay Escrow Account which currently has a balance in excess of $1.5 million dollars. Additionally, the Company has a $200,000 letter of credit dedicated to the plugging operations at East Hackberry.
All of the oil and gas leases in which the Company owns an interest have been perpetuated by production. The operator may surrender the leases at any time by notice to the lessors, or by the cessation of production.
EAST HACKBERRY FIELD - --------------------
(Map Omitted)
Location and Land - -----------------
The East Hackberry Field is located along the western shore of Lake Calcasieu in Cameron Parish, Louisiana approximately 80 miles west of Lafayette and 15 miles inland from the Gulf of Mexico. In February 1994, the Company purchased a 100% working interest (approximately 79% average NRI) in certain producing oil and gas properties situated in the East Hackberry Field. The purchase included two separate lease blocks, the Erwin Heirs Block which is located on land originally developed by Gulf Oil Company (now Chevron Corporation), and the adjacent State Lease 50 Block which is located primarily in the shallow waters of Lake Calcasieu, originally developed by Texaco. The two lease blocks together contain 3,147 acres.
In September 1994, the Company sold an overriding royalty interest equal to a 50% working interest in certain producing oil and gas wells situated in the East Hackberry Field to Milam Royalty Corporation a subsidiary of J. P. Morgan and Company. In April 1999, Gulfport purchased the overriding royalty interest back from the then current owner, Queen Sand Resources, Inc. giving the Company a 100% working interest in the field.
Geology - -------
The Hackberry Field is a major salt intrusive feature, elliptical in shape as opposed to a classic "dome," divided into East and West field entities by a saddle. Structurally, the Company's East Hackberry acreage is located on the eastern end of the Hackberry salt ridge. There are over 30 pay zones at this
field. The salt intrusion trapped Oligocene through Lower Miocene rocks in a series of complex, steeply dipping fault blocks. The Camerina sand series is a prolific producer with 1-2 MMBL per well of oil potential. The Company's wells currently produce from perforations found between 5,100' and 12,200'.
Area History and Production - ---------------------------
The East Hackberry field was discovered in 1926 by Gulf Oil Company (now Chevron Corporation) by gravitational anomaly survey. The massive shallow salt stock presented an easily recognizable gravity anomaly indicating a productive field. Initial production began in 1927 and has continued to the present. The estimated cumulative oil and condensate production through 1999 was 111 million barrels of oil with casinghead gas production being 60 billion cubic feet of gas. There have been a total of 170 wells drilled on the Company's portion of the field with 12 having current daily production; seven produce intermittently; and 71 wells shut-in and five wells have been converted to salt water disposal wells. The remaining 72 wells have been plugged and abandoned. As of January 1, 2000 daily net production averages 370 barrels of oil and 4970 barrels of water with a limited amount of natural gas.
Facilities - ----------
The Company has land-based production and processing facilities located at the East Hackberry Field. The facility is comprised of two dehydrating units, four disposal pumps and two compressors with a total of 1,700 horsepower. The Company also has a field office that serves both the East and West Hackberry fields.
WEST HACKBERRY FIELD
Location and Land - -----------------
The West Hackberry Field is located on land and is five miles West of Lake Calcasieu in Cameron Parish, Louisiana approximately 85 miles west of Lafayette and 15 miles inland from the Gulf of Mexico. In November 1992, the Company purchased a 100% working interest (approximately 80% average NRI, subsequently increased to approximately 87.5% NRI) in 592 acres within the West Hackberry Field.
Geology - -------
Structurally, the Company's West Hackberry acreage is located on the western end of the Hackberry salt ridge. (See graphic above.) There are over 30 pay zones at this field. West Hackberry consists of a series of fault-bounded traps in the Oligocene-age Vincent and Keough sands associated with the Hackberry Salt Ridge. Recoveries from these thick, porous, water-drive reservoirs have resulted in per well cumulatives of almost 700 BOE.
Area History and Production - ---------------------------
The first discovery well at West Hackberry was drilled in 1938 and was developed by Superior Oil Company (now Exxon-Mobil Corporation) between 1938 and 1988. The estimated cumulative oil and condensate production through 1999 was 170 million barrels of oil with casinghead gas production of 120 billion cubic feet of gas. There have been 36 wells drilled to date on the Company's portion of West Hackberry and currently four are producing, 22 are shut-in and one has been converted to a salt water disposal well. The remaining eight wells have been plugged and abandoned. The Company plugged one saltwater disposal well in 1999. As of January 1, 2000 daily net production averages 125 barrels of oil, 100 MCF of gas and 670 barrels of water.
Facilities - ----------
The Company has land-based production and processing facilities located at the West Hackberry field. The Company has two dehydrating units, one disposal pump and one 650-horsepower compressor. The Company maintains a field office that serves both the East and West Hackberry fields.
WEST COTE BLANCHE BAY FIELD - ---------------------------
(Map Omitted) (Type Log Omitted)
Location and Land - -----------------
The West Cote Blanche Bay (WCBB) Field lies approximately five miles off the coast of Louisiana primarily in St. Mary Parish in a shallow bay, with water depths averaging eight to ten feet. The Company originally acquired from Texaco a 6.25% working interest in all zones in the WCBB field in July 1988. In April 1995, the Company completed the purchase of an additional 43.75% working interest in the WCBB field from an affiliate of Benton Oil and Gas Company and two affiliates of Tenneco, Inc. as to those rights lying above the base of the Rob "C" marker, located at approximately 10,500'. The sellers retained their interests in all depths below the base of the Rob "C" marker. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, at the Effective Date, the Company acquired the remaining 50% working interest in the WCBB field in depths above the Rob "C" marker from Texaco and became the operator of the field. In 1999 the Company exercised a preferential right to purchase an additional 1.00% working interest in the rights below the Rob "C" marker. Currently the Company owns a 100% working interest (80.20% NRI) and is the operator in the depths above the Rob "C" marker and owns a 7.45% non-operated working interest (5.84% NRI) in depths below the Rob "C" marker. Texaco is the operator below the base of the Rob "C" marker. The Company's leasehold at WCBB covers a portion of Louisiana State Lease 340 and contains 4,590 acres.
Geology - -------
WCBB overlies one of the largest salt dome structures on the Gulf Coast. The field is characterized by a piercement salt dome, which created traps from the Pleistocene through the Miocene. The relative movements affected deposition and created a complex system of fault traps. The compensating fault sets generally trend NW-SE and are intersected by sets having a major radial component. Later-stage movement caused extension over the dome and a large graben system was formed.
There are over 100 distinct sandstone reservoirs recognized throughout most of the field and nearly 200 major and minor discrete intervals have been tested. Within the over 800 wellbores that have been drilled to date in the field, over 4,000 potential zones have been penetrated. These sands are highly porous and permeable reservoirs primarily with a strong water drive.
Area History and Production - ---------------------------
Texaco drilled the discovery well in 1940 based on a seismic and gravitational anomaly. WCBB was subsequently developed on an even 160-acre pattern for much of the reminder of the decade. Developmental drilling continued and reached its peek in the 1970's when over 300 of the over 800 total wells were drilled in the field. Of the over 800 wells drilled, only 80 were dry holes and many of these were capable of hydrocarbon production. As a result, the field has an historic success rate of over 90% for all wells drilled. The cumulative gross production for the average producer in the field was 237 MBO, with over 100 of those wells (14% of total wells) producing in excess of 500 MBO. As of June 30, 1997, field cumulative gross production was 188 MMBO and 224 BCF of gas.
There have been 860 wells drilled in WCBB of this 42 are currently producing, 333 are shut-in and four have been converted to salt water disposal wells. The balance of the wells (or 481) have been plugged and abandoned. As of January 1, 2000 the Company's net current daily production is 1,070 barrels of oil, 200 MCF of gas and 15, 300 barrels of water at WCBB.
In 1991 Texaco conducted a 70 square mile 3-D seismic survey with 1,100 shot points per mile that processed out 100 fold. In 1993, an undershoot survey around the crest and production facilities was added. The Company owns the rights to the seismic data. In December of 1999 the Company completed the re-processing of the seismic data and currently has its geophysicists developing prospects from the data. The reprocessed data will enable the Company to identify prospects in areas of the field that would otherwise remain obscure.
Facilities - ----------
The Company owns and operates a production facility at WCBB. The platform stretches over a mile and is equipped with a 30 MMCF capacity dehydrating system, three compressors totaling 4000 horsepower and three 225 horsepower triplex saltwater disposal pumps. The Company has made continual improvements to this facility to enable it to function more efficiently and lower lease operating expense at WCBB. Some of the improvements in 1999 include installing three free water knockouts to aid in the separation process, tuning of the compressors and cleaning out the saltwater disposal wells. The Company generates cash flow by handling other companies' saltwater and gas through the facility for a fee. In 1999, the Company earned an average of $30,000 a month from facility charges.
Texaco Operated Well - --------------------
In June of 1999, the Company executed a sublease in favor of Texaco of an approximate 72 acre block below the base of the 8 Sand, located at approximately 9,060 feet, at WCBB and reserved a 25% back-in working interest after the proceeds of the well totaled $1,000,000. Texaco has informed the Company that the well reached the payout point in January of 2000. The subject well is currently producing approximately 170 BOPD and 125 MCFPD net to the Company with estimated net reserves to the Company of 84,000 MCF of gas and 123,000 barrels of oil. This well is located on the flank of West Cote Blanche Bay salt dome. The Company believes that there are many locations further inside the perimeter (owned 100% by Gulfport) that have equal to or greater potential than this well.
OVERRIDES & ROYALTY
Overriding Royalty Interests - ----------------------------
The Company owns overriding royalty interests in an additional 11 producing oil and gas wells lying in three fields. When the Company sold its
interest in the Bayou Penchant Field to Castex Energy 1996 Limited Partnership effective April 1, 1998, the Company retained a 10% overriding royalty interest in this field. The Bayou Penchant field is located in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana and the 1999 average daily gross production from seven producing wells was almost 4,500 MCF of gas.
The Company also owns a 2.5% overriding royalty interest in three producing wells at the Napoleonville Field retained when the Company sold its interest to Plymouth Operating Company in 1998. The Napoleonville field is located in Assumption Parish, Louisiana and averaged 150 barrels of oil per day in 1999.
Additionally, Gulfport owns a net profits interest in one producing well and all the leasehold rights in the South Atchafalaya Bay Field located in St. Mary Parish, Louisiana. This well was placed on production in late 1999. These interests provided $30,000 in revenue to the Company in 1999.
Fee Minerals and Surface Interest - ---------------------------------
The Company owns 230 net acres of fee minerals and surface interest adjacent to its West Hackberry Field in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. This property currently contains six producing wells. The Company is in the process of negotiating a surface lease to a local landowner.
OTHER INTERESTS
Castex Energy 1996 Limited Partnership - --------------------------------------
In 1998 the Company sold a package of oil and gas properties to Castex Energy 1996 LP for $8.8 million dollars. As additional consideration for the sale, the Company was granted a 25% interest in the limited partnership that vests once the investment in the partnership pays out. The Limited Partnership owns and operates several oil and gas fields located along the Gulf Coast.
Litigation Trust - ----------------
In connection with the Bankruptcy, the Bankruptcy Court appointed a bankruptcy examiner to review the bankruptcy case to identify potential claims the Company may have in bankruptcy. The Examiner filed a report recommending numerous actions for recovery of property or damages for the Company's estate. Pursuant to the Plan or Reorganization, all of the Company's possible causes of action against third parties related to the Bankruptcy were transferred into a Litigation Trust.
The Litigation Trust was funded by a $3,000,000 cash payment from the Company on the Effective Date of the Bankruptcy. The Company owns a 12% interest in the Litigation Trust with the other 88% being owned by the former unsecured creditors of the Company.
The Litigation Trust filed approximately 400 preference actions and several substantive actions alleging fraud, malpractice and other wrongdoings. At this time, the Company cannot estimate what the potential future recovery from the litigation will be.
Lafayette Office Building - -------------------------
In 1996, the Company purchased a building in Lafayette, Louisiana to be used as the Company's Louisiana headquarters. The 15 year old building contains 12,480 total square feet with 8,180 square feet of finished office area and 6,300 square feet of clear span warehouse area. The fair market value of the building was recently calculated at approximately $300,000 with a mortgage balance of about $177,000 as of January 1, 2000. This building allows the Company to provide office space for Louisiana personnel, have access to meeting space close to the fields and to maintain a corporate presence in Louisiana.
Drilling and Recompletion Activities
The following table contains data with respect to certain of the Company's field operations during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997. The Company drilled no exploratory wells during the periods presented.
Reserves
The oil and gas reserve information set forth below represents only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating volumes of economically recoverable oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. As a result, the estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, the results of drilling, testing, and production may justify revisions of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas and of future net revenues are based on a number of variables and assumptions, all of which may vary from actual results, including geologic interpretation, prices, and future production rates and costs.
The following table sets forth estimates of the proved oil and gas reserves of the Company at December 31, 1999, as estimated by a non-employee contract engineer.
Total proved reserves increased from 24,836 MBOE at January 1, 1999 to 26,967 MBOE at January 1, 2000. This increase in reserves is attributable to the purchase of a 50% working interest in East Hackberry, additional reserves located as a result of the drilling and recompletion activity at WCBB, and an increased economic longevity of the properties due to higher oil prices.
The estimated future net revenues set forth above were determined by using reserve quantities of proved reserves and the periods in which they are expected to be developed and produced based on economic conditions prevailing at December 31, 1999. The estimated future production is priced at December 31, 1999 without escalation using $ 25.61 per BBL and $2.41 per MCF.
In compliance with federal law, the Company files annual reports with the Energy Information Agency of the U.S. Department of Energy with respect to its production of oil and gas during each calendar year and its estimated oil and gas reserves at the end of each year.
Title to Oil and Gas Properties
It is customary in the oil and gas industry to make only a cursory review of title to undeveloped oil and gas leases at the time they are acquired and to obtain more extensive title examinations when acquiring producing properties. In future acquisitions, the Company will conduct title examinations on material portions of such properties in a manner generally consistent with industry practice. Certain of the Company's oil and gas properties may be subject to title defects, encumbrances, easements, servitudes or other restrictions, none of which, in management's opinion, will in the aggregate materially restrict the Company's operations.
Production, Prices, and Costs
The Company sells its oil and gas at the wellhead and does not refine petroleum products. Other than normal production facilities, the Company does not own an interest in any bulk storage facilities or pipelines. As is customary in the industry, the Company sells its production in any one area to relatively few purchasers, including transmission companies that have pipelines near the Company's producing wells. Gas purchase contracts are generally on a short-term "spot market" basis and usually contain provisions by which the prices and delivery quantities for future deliveries will be determined.
The majority of the Company's crude oil production is sold on contracts based on postings plus a premium. These premiums are based on an average paid by several purchasers minus a handling charge per barrel of oil. The following table contains certain historical data reflecting the average production costs incurred by the Company during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
In May 1999, the Company hedged 1,000 BOPD at a fixed price of $14.75 per barrel (f.o.b. WCBB) for the period beginning with June 1, 1999 and ending November 30, 1999. This hedge is based on an average Merc price of $16.35 a barrel. The difference between the $14.75 per barrel and the $16.35 per barrel is the $1.00 WTI adjustment for the region and transportation and marketing fees.
The following is a table and graph of the Company's monthly net production in 1999.
(Table and Graph Omitted)
The following table demonstrates the production volumes and prices received for production years ended 1999, 1998 and 1997.
During 1998, the sales to Equiva Trading Co., Gathering and Energy Marketing Co., Black Hills Energy Resources, Inc., and Plains Marketing, L.P. accounted for 25%, 16%, 23% and 10%, respectively for oil sales. Gas sales to Prior Energy Company, Texaco Exploration and Production, Inc., and Burlington Resources, Inc. accounted for 47%, 27% and 11% of the Company's gas revenues. The company had no other purchasers that accounted for greater than 10% of its oil and gas revenues in the year ended December 31, 1998.
Spring 2000 Field Work
West Cote Blanche Bay
The Company will use the 3-D seismic data that it has recently reprocessed to delineate the locations of four new wells at the West Cote Blanche Bay Field in St. Mary Parish, Louisiana and expects to commence drilling operations on the initial well in April, 2000. Two of the wells will be drilled to depths of about 2,500' and the remaining two wells will be drilled to depths of approximately 9,000'. The Company feels these wells will access significant oil and gas deposits and cover a variety of targets ranging from relatively low risk proven undeveloped locations to higher potential exploratory targets.
Gulfport has filed a permit with the State of Louisiana to convert an existing shut-in wellbore to a saltwater disposal well. In the near future, the Company believes that its current disposal system will be at capacity and an additional well will be needed to handle any additional water generated by its drilling program. The Company hopes to begin the conversion process in the second quarter of 2000.
In March 2000, the Company began to fulfill its yearly plugging commitment by plugging 20 wells at WCBB. The Company has enlisted the services of an experienced Gulf Coast plugging company to perform the work and estimates these wells can be plugged for an average cost of about $15,000 per well for a total cost of approximately $300,000.
East and West Hackberry
Gulfport is in the process of increasing production at both the East and West Hackberry fields by performing low risk downhole remedial work on a series of wells. The Company is also continuing its efforts to decrease its reliance on gas lift in the Hackberry fields, and thereby lower lifting cost expenses by converting the lifting method of selected wells to downhole submersible pumps or pumping units.
Competition and Markets
Availability of Markets. The availability of a ready market for any oil and/or gas produced by Gulfport depends on numerous factors beyond the control of management, including but not limited to, the extent of domestic production and imports of oil, the proximity and capacity of gas pipelines, the availability of skilled labor, materials and equipment, the effect of state and federal regulation of oil and gas production and federal regulation of gas sold in interstate commerce. Oil and gas produced by Gulfport in Louisiana is sold to various purchasers who service the areas where Gulfport's wells are located. Gulfport's wells are not subject to any agreements that would prevent Gulfport from either selling its production on the spot market or committing such gas to a long-term contract; however, there can be no assurance that Gulfport will continue to have ready access to suitable markets for its future oil and gas production.
Impact of Energy Price Changes. Oil and gas prices can be extremely volatile and are subject to substantial seasonal, political and other fluctuations. The prices at which oil and gas produced by Gulfport may be sold is uncertain and it is possible that under some market conditions the production and sale of oil and gas from some or all of its properties may not be economical. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas and the prices
obtained for such oil and gas, depend upon numerous factors beyond the control of Gulfport, including competition from other oil and gas suppliers and national and international economic and political developments. Because of all of the factors influencing the price of oil and gas, it is impossible to accurately predict future prices.
Environmental Regulation
Operations of Gulfport are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection. Over the last several years, state and federal environmental laws and regulations have become more stringent and may continue to become more stringent in the future. These laws and regulations may affect Gulfport's operations and costs as a result of their affect on oil and gas development, exploration, and production operations. It is not anticipated that Gulfport will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total capital expenditures program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, Gulfport is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.
Operational Hazards and Insurance
Gulfport's operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the production of oil and gas, including blowouts, cratering, pipe failure, casing collapse, oil spills and fires, each of which could result in severe damage to or destruction of oil and gas wells, production facilities or other property, or injury to persons. The energy business is also subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks, and ruptures and discharge of toxic substances or gases that could expose Gulfport to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. Although Gulfport maintains insurance coverage considered to be customary in the industry for a company its size, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured against could have a material adverse effect on Gulfport's financial position.
Employees
At December 31, 1999, the Company had eight employees. A Louisiana well servicing company serves as contract operator of the fields and provides all necessary field personnel.
Item 3.