ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Each Operating Partnership owns and operates a Project, which generated Tax Credits under Section 42 of the Tax Code over its initial 10-years of existence or slightly longer. A description of the Projects is contained in the following tables. Immediately following these tables, is a glossary which provides an explanation of certain terms used in the table headings, as well as a discussion of certain Projects.
The following is additional information on certain Operating Partnerships which had operational or other financial problems either during or which the effects of which continued during the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2000:
ALACHUA VILLAS, LTD., CITRUS TERRACE, LTD. AND LAKE CITY VILLAGE, LTD.
In the 1995 Fiscal Year, Megan Asset Management, as general partner of the Partnership, and the Partnership commenced an action in the Circuit Court of Alachua County, Florida as the sole limited partner of, and derivatively on behalf of, two Operating Partnerships, Lake City Village, Ltd. and Alachua Villas, Ltd., against John D. Carver ("Carver"), the general partner of these Operating Partnerships, and a management company affiliated with Carver, G & R Management Services, Inc. ("G & R"). The actions arose as a result of the acceleration by RD of the entire balance due on the mortgage against these Operating Partnerships. RD alleged various defaults under such Operating Partnership's loan agreements, promissory notes and mortgages with RD (the "RD Documents"), including failure to pay real estate taxes, failure to maintain account balances sufficient to pay current operating and maintenance expenses, failure to maintain adequate records and file required reports, and failure to correct deficiencies previously noted by RD during its supervisory visits to the housing projects.
After extensive motion practice and discovery, on January 13, 1995, a settlement agreement was entered into ("Carver Settlement Agreement") providing for a designated representative of the Partnership (a company under common ownership and control with Megan Asset Management) to take over management of the affected Operating Partnerships and the replacement of Carver as general partner subject to the consent of RD (which was obtained in December, 1995). The Carver Settlement Agreement also provided for an audit of the two Operating Partnerships and Citrus Terrace Village Ltd., an Operating Partnership unaffiliated with Carver, but which G&R managed ("Citrus Terrace"). This audit uncovered possible claims of the two Operating Partnerships and Citrus Terrace against the defendants totaling $83,599, which amount was contested by Carver. Following a hearing on November 13, 1997, the Court ruled that it would enter summary judgment pursuant to the Carver Settlement Agreement in favor of the Partnership against Carver in the amount of $78,599 together with interest from January 24, 1996. Thereafter Carver appealed the Court's entry of judgment in favor of the Partnership. After the filing of briefs and hearing the arguments the Circuit Court of Appeal, First District, State of Florida dismissed Carver's appeal and the judgment in favor of the Partnership became final. Subsequently, the Partnership applied for an award of attorney's fees and cost pursuant to the terms of the Carver Settlement Agreement. By an order dated March 2, 2001, the Partnership's application for an award of attorneys' fees and costs was granted by the Court in the sum of $34,012.95 as attorney's fees and $787.00 as costs for the total sum of $34,799.95. While the Partnership has made attempts to recover against Carver with respect to the judgment and award of attorneys' fees and has taken asset discovery depositions of Carver, his wife and certain relatives, no asset against which the judgment or award of attorneys' fees can be collected have yet been discovered. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered by such Operating Partnerships or the Partnership.
Further, in the 1996 Fiscal Year, in an attempt to recover upon its claims and the sums taken by Carver from the two Operating Partnerships, other than Citrus Terrace, the Partnership
commenced a further action in the Circuit Court of Alachua County, Florida against Mercurio & Bridgford, P.A. and John J. Mercurio (together, "Mercurio"), who provided auditing services to each of Lake City Village, Ltd., Alachua Villas, Ltd. and Citrus Terrace, based upon their failure to report the improper payments made by John D. Carver, Jr. from these two Operating Partnerships.
After a jury trial in the Circuit Court of Alachua County, Florida, in November, 1998, the jury reach the verdict that these defendants had not caused the Partnership's and Operating Partnerships' financial loss. Following the jury's verdict, these defendants sought a $55,545 recovery for their costs and attorneys' fees against the Partnership. The Partnership and counsel to the Partnership did not believe the Partnership was obligated for defendants' cost and attorneys' fees and defended against such claim, however, the Court concluded that the Partnership would be liable for costs incurred by these defendants in the amount of $18,464.70. Subsequently, the Partnership reached a settlement agreement with these defendants and paid $13,000 to defendants in full settlement of all costs and attorney's fees due to these defendants.
The Partnership further made loans of $24,655 and $25,310 in excess of its capital commitment to Lake City Village, Ltd. and Alachua Villas, Ltd. respectively, to enable them to pay certain outstanding real estate taxes in arrears. In consideration of the Partnership's making these loans, RD has not foreclosed on its mortgages to such Operating Partnerships and has restructured such mortgages to finance the payment of the balance of the past due real estate taxes unpaid by Carver and to permit such Operating Partnerships to remain in operation not withstanding the damages they suffered. This permitted the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and to avoid any recapture on Tax Credits taken in prior years. Had RD foreclosed on its loans and the Partnership lost its interest in Lake City Village, Ltd. and Alachua Villas, the Partnership would not have been entitled to aggregate Tax Credits of $392,300 through 1999, or approximately $196 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest. In addition, assuming that 100% of the Tax Credits previously allocated to the Limited Partners relating to these Operating Partnerships were used by them, it is estimated that the Limited Partners would have been subject to a total tax recapture with respect to these Operating Partnerships of $186,709 or approximately $93 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest, plus interest and penalties, if any.
In addition to the above loans in excess of its capital commitment, during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1998 the Partnership made an additional loan of $20,714 to Lake City Village to cover the cost of maintenance, which had been deferred by Carver, in an attempt to keep the units in this Project habitable and available for rent.
While the Partnership has obtained a promissory note from each Operating Partnership and a security interest in the Operating General Partners' interests in each Operating Partnership, the repayment of the loans with accrued interest is subject to each Operating Partnership's having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover its ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves and RD's approval, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered from such Operating Partnerships.
The Partnership has also paid professional fees on behalf of each Operating Partnership
relating to the litigation against the former general partner and takeover and workout of these Operating Partnerships in the amount of $55,462 on behalf of Alachua Villas and $55,638 on behalf of Lake City Village. Said payments have been reflected as a note payable to the Partnership on the financial statements of each Operating Partnership. Any sums recovered by the Operating Partnerships from the judgment obtained against Carver, the former general partner, will be paid to the Partnership in reduction of these loans, subject to the then financial condition of each Operating Partnership.
Also in the 1995 Fiscal Year, the Partnership commenced a further action in the Circuit Court of Highlands County, Florida on behalf of Citrus Terrace substantially similar to that described above, against George T. Wheeler ("Wheeler"), individually and as the general partner of Citrus and against Carver, as Trustee of G & R, and G & R, which management company was also managing the Project owned by Citrus Terrace. A substantially similar settlement agreement was entered into and implemented in connection with and this litigation was also settled, except for the recovery of the sum of approximately $5,000 in an unauthorized loan taken by Carver from Citrus Terrace. It is not likely going to be economically feasible for the Partnership to attempt to recover this latter sum against Carver with respect to such claim.
In consideration of an affiliate of Megan Asset Management becoming the substitute general partner of Citrus Terrace, RD did not foreclose on its mortgage to Citrus Terrace, and it has restructured the mortgage to finance the payment of past due real estate taxes not paid by Carver to permit this Operating Partnership to remain in operation, notwithstanding the damages suffered by it. This permitted the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and to avoid any recapture on Tax Credits taken in prior years. If RD had foreclosed on its loans and had the Partnership lost its interest in this Operating Partnership, the Partnership would not have been entitled to aggregate Tax Credits of $283,136 through 1999, or approximately $142 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest. In addition, assuming that 100% of the Tax Credits previously allocated to the Limited Partners relating to this Operating Partnership were used by them, it is estimated that the Limited Partners would have been subject to a total tax recapture with respect to this Operating Partnership of $115,731, or approximately $58 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest, plus interest and penalties, if any.
The Partnership has also paid professional fees on behalf of Citrus Terrace relating to the litigation against the former general partner and the takeover and workout of this Operating Partnership in the amount of $57,098. Said payments have been reflected as a note payable to the Partnership on the financial statements of the Operating Partnership. As the repayment of the fees for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of Citrus Terrace is subject to its having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves and RD's approval, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered from this Operating Partnership by the Partnership.
FLAMBEAU VILLAGE, L.P.
The Partnership was made aware that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") audited the 1993 and 1994 income tax returns for one of the Partnership's Operating Partnerships, Flambeau
Village, L.P. ("Flambeau Village"), the owner of a 53 unit, mixed income, elderly Project (26 units of low income housing tax credit restricted tenants and 27 units of unrestricted market rate income tenants) located in Ladysmith, Wisconsin.
Flambeau Village was the Partnership's largest single producer of tax credits with approximately $163,000 in annual tax credits. Accordingly, the Partnership engaged legal and tax counsel and tax credit compliance experts to review the compliance by the Flambeau Village Developer/General Partner with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC"), meet with the IRS and actively monitor the situation. As a result of a meeting between the professionals engaged by the Partnership and the IRS, the Partnership was informally informed that the IRS had concluded that Flambeau Village had failed to meet the minimum set-aside and rent restriction tests of Section 42 of the IRC and therefore, it had not qualified for and was not entitled Tax Credits for any year. The IRS however did not issued a formal report at the time and its investigation and the Developer/General Partner's negotiations with the IRS continued.
In view of the above, the Partnership made the decision not to allocate any of the approximately $163,000 of Tax Credits of Flambeau Village for 1996 to its Limited Partners in order to minimize or make a provision for potential recapture, penalties and interest if the IRS ultimately should disallow some or all of the previous allocated Flambeau Village Tax Credits. As no report from the IRS was forthcoming and the Developer/General Partner continued to negotiate with the IRS, the Partnership did allocate the approximately $163,000 of Tax Credits from Flambeau Village for each of 1997 and 1998 to its Limited Partners, although it had not allocated any of the 1996 Tax Credits from Flambeau Village to its Limited Partners.
Subsequently, in connection with the IRS's criminal investigation of the activities of principals, former officers of or persons related to Flambeau Village's Developer/General Partner, the Partnership learned that one of the Developer/General Partner's principals and former officers pleaded guilty to charges filed by the IRS relating to other activities (not involving the IRS's audit of Flambeau Village's 1993 and 1994 tax returns) and was sentenced to and served a two year jail sentence.
In connection with the actions of the Developer/General Partner with respect to Flambeau Village, the IRS by letter dated September 29, 1999, formally notified Flambeau Village that it had determined that Flambeau Village is not entitled to claim any tax credits for any year that the Project was in existence. Since 1989, the Partnership has received a total of $1,663,311 in Tax Credits in connection with its Limited Partnership interest in Flambeau Village. Of these tax credits, $1,482,898 have been allocated to the Limited Partners of the Partnership.
Although there can be no assurance that the IRS will not seek to recapture all of the Tax Credits generated by Flambeau Village, other than for the years 1993 and 1994, the Partnership's counsel believes, after considering the IRS letter which reflects that no adjustments will be proposed by the IRS either at the partnership level or individual partner level for 1993 and 1994, absent a finding of fraud by the IRS with respect to the activities of the Developer/General Partner with respect to Flambeau Village, and the fact that the statute of limitations has run for years prior to 1998, that the IRS will not likely make any adjustment for the Tax Credits allocated by Flambeau Village
to the Partnership and by the Partnership to its Limited Partners for the years 1989 through 1997. It is not known what position with respect to adjustments the IRS will take, if any, for the subsequent year 1998 for which Tax Credits were allocated to and passed through by the Partnership to its Limited Partners. No Tax Credits were passed through by the Partnership for the year 1996 and, in view of the above, the Partnership also elected not to pass through Tax Credits allocated by Flambeau Village to it in the amount of $17,727 for the year 1999, which was the last year the Partnership was entitled to Tax Credits.
If the IRS takes the subsequent position that adjustments will be proposed at the partnership level, or individual partner level, for the years 1995, 1997 and 1998 (i.e. those years not covered by the IRS's September 29, 1999 letter) or the years prior to 1993 for which Tax Credits were allocated to the Partnership and passed through to its Limited Partners, assuming that 100% of the Tax Credits so allocated to the Limited Partners relating to Flambeau Village were used by the Limited Partners, it is estimated that the Limited Partners would be subject to recapture of Tax Credits with respect to Flambeau Village of an estimated $385,000 or approximately $200 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest, plus interest and penalties, if any.
As a result of the loss of the 1996 and 1999 Tax Credits not taken by the Partnership in the aggregate amount of $179,142 and the additional costs incurred by the Partnership of $117,815 to have its professionals review the compliance by the Flambeau Village Developer/General Partner with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, meet with the IRS and actively monitor the situation, the Partnership reviewed the likelihood of successfully pursuing a claim against and attempting to recover compensatory damages for such losses from the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village and any affiliate deemed responsible under the terms of Flambeau Village Operating Partnership agreement, the Partnership's Plan and common law. However, in the event a claim was filed there was no assurance that any amounts could be recovered by the Partnership.
In connection with its evaluation of the feasibility of pursuing a claim against the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village and any affiliate, the Independent Manager had an independent appraisal of the Project performed. The appraisal, dated as of January 4, 2000, showed an appraised value of $1,700,000. As of December 31, 1999, the Project had a mortgage payable of $1,603,455. Accordingly, the Project's appraised value appears to be only $96,545 above the Project's first mortgage loan.
As the Partnership through its ownership of the limited partnership interests in Flambeau Village already owned a 50% interest in the equity of that Operating Partnership, should that Operating Partnership have a value, after offsetting other assets and other liabilities, of the net appraised value over the Project's mortgage or $96,545, the Developer/General Partner's 50% interest in the equity of the Operating Partnership would only be approximately $48,273. Accordingly, the Partnership did not commence an action to attempt to recover the damages the Partnership has suffered as a result of the breaches of the Operating Partnership Agreement by the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village, as the Partnership could not determine the availability of other assets of the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village from which a damage award could be satisfied.
As the repayment of the fees of $117,815 for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of Flambeau Village was subject to its having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves, which this Operating Partnership did not have, and the Partnership was facing potential litigation against with the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village and there could be no assurance that any such amounts would be recovered by the Partnership, the Partnership chose to settle with the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village by accepting the payment of $100,000 in satisfaction of the fees of $117,815 for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of Flambeau Village and by agreeing to terminate the Partnership's interest in Flambeau Village. By way of terminating its interest in Flambeau Village, the Partnership agreed to sell its interests in this Operating Partnership first in the implementation of its Liquidity Program. Accordingly, by Agreement For Purchase And Sale Of Partnership Interest entered into on February 28, 2002, the Partnership sold thirty-three percent (33%) of its Partnership Interests in Flambeau Village for Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) and granted purchaser, Flambeau Village Properties, LL.C., a Wisconsin limited liability company, an option for Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) to purchase the balance of the Partnership's Partnership Interests consisting of sixty-seven percent (67%) of the Partnership's limited partnership interests in Flambeau Village for an additional Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000) subject to the exercise of the option and a final closing only after the expiration of Flambeau Village's 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period on January 1, 2004.
Flambeau Village as of December 31, 2000 had an estimated remaining depreciable basis of $1,696,030, thirty-three percent (33%) of which the Partnership would have received in the way of passive losses proportionately over approximately 16.5 years from December 31, 2000 had thirty-three percent (33%) of its interest in Flambeau Village not been sold. Further the Partnership will not receive its interest in the balance of Flambeau Village's depreciable basis remaining after January 1, 2004 if the purchaser exercises the Option to purchase the remaining sixty-seven percent (67%) of the Partnership's interest in Flambeau Village.
SULLIVAN GARDEN APARTMENTS, L.P. AND MILLS-SHAPLEY PARTNERSHIP, L.P.
The Partnership also chose to sell its interests in two other Operating Partnerships which owned small, troubled Projects.
The general partners of Operating Partnerships Sullivan Garden Apartments, L.P. ("Sullivan Garden") and Mills-Shapley Partnership, L.P. ("Mills-Shapley"), each sought to sell their Projects to third-parties prior to the expiration of each project's 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period as both Projects had substantial deferred maintenance and suffered from extremely high vacancies. While the Partnership could not approve the sale of either Project because of the potential recapture of Tax Credits, understanding the troubled nature of both Projects, the Partnership agreed to approve the transfer of the general partners' interests and to sell the purchasers a portion of the Partnership's limited partnership interests in each Operating Partnership at the present time and to grant the purchasers an option to purchase the balance of the Partnership's limited partnership interest after the expiration of the Project's 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period in an attempt to facilitate the purchasers' takeover and revitalization of each Project.
Accordingly, by Agreement For Purchase And Sale Of Partnership Interest entered into on or about January 1, 2002, the Partnership sold thirty-three percent (33%) of its interest in Sullivan Garden for Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) and granted purchaser, Leslie D. Ray, an option for One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) to purchase the balance of the Partnership's interest consisting of sixty-seven percent (67%) of the Partnership's limited partnership interest in Sullivan Garden for an additional Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) subject to the exercise of the option and a final closing only after the expiration of Sullivan Garden's 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period on January 1, 2004. Sullivan Garden as of December 31, 2000 had an estimated remaining depreciable basis of $236,474, thirty-three percent (33%) of which the Partnership would have received in the way of passive losses proportionately over approximately 16.5 years from December 31, 2000 had thirty-three percent (33%) of its interest in Sullivan Gardens not been sold. Further, the Partnership will not receive its interest in the balance of Sullivan Garden's depreciable basis remaining after January 1, 2004 if the purchaser exercises the Option to purchase the remaining sixty-seven percent (67%) of the Partnership's interest in Sullivan Garden.
Further, by Agreement For Purchase And Sale Of Partnership Interest entered into on or about February 1, 2002, the Partnership sold thirty-three percent (33%) of its interests in Mills-Shapley, which owned the more deeply troubled Project, for Fifty Dollars ($50) and granted purchasers, George R. and George A. Davis, an option for Ten dollars ($10) to purchase the balance of the Partnership's interests consisting of sixty-seven percent (67%) of the Partnership's limited partnership interest in Mills-Shapley for an additional One Hundred Dollars ($100) subject to the exercise of the option and a final closing only after the expiration of Mills-Shapley's 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period, also on January 1, 2004. Mills-Shapley as of December 31, 2000 had an estimated remaining depreciable basis of $237,402, thirty-three percent (33%) of which the Partnership would have received in the way of passive losses proportionately over approximately 16.5 years from December 31, 2000 had thirty-three percent (33%) of its interest in Mills-Shapley not been sold. Further, the Partnership will not receive its interest in the balance of Mills-Shapley's depreciable basis remaining after January 1, 2004 if the purchasers exercise the Option to purchase the remaining sixty-seven percent (67%) of the Partnership's interest in Mills-Shapley.
BROADWAY TERRACE OF DREW, L.P., LONGVIEW TERRACE, LTD., AND PONTOTOC RIDGE, LTD.
The sole operating general partner of three Operating Partnerships, Broadway Terrace of Drew, L.P., Longview Terrace, Ltd. and Pontotoc Ridge, Ltd. located in the state of Mississippi in which the Partnership owns the limited partnership interests, died during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998. After several months of attempting to sell the deceased Operating General Partner's 5% general partner and 50% equity interests in these three Operating Partnerships, the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner advised the Partnership that it was abandoning its interest in the three Operating Partnerships. Thereupon, Megan Asset Management caused one of its affiliates to be appointed Operating General Partner of the three Operating Partnerships in an attempt to preserve the Partnership's interests therein. Two of the three Operating Partnerships, Broadway Terrace of Drew, L.P. and Pontotoc Ridge, Ltd., had severely underfunded reserves and were delinquent in several years real estate taxes and were subject to possible foreclosure by RD.
BROADWAY TERRACE OF DREW, L.P.
At the time that an affiliate of Megan Asset Management began to manage Broadway Terrace of Drew it had severely under funded reserves and several years of delinquent real estate taxes. Further the Project had an entire building, containing 8 apartments, uninhabitable and unrentable due to severe vandalism, as a result of which RD commenced formal foreclosure proceedings. The Partnership engaged legal counsel on behalf of Broadway Terrace and was successful in stopping the foreclosure proceedings and getting RD to begin working with Megan Asset Management's affiliate to put a workout plan together toward saving the Project owned by this Operating Partnership. RD does not feel that Broadway Terrace will ever have sufficient income to service its $1,339,330 mortgage, pay its real estate taxes and fund its reserves annually. Accordingly, RD has proposed a 100% transfer of Broadway Terrace to a new entity, through which the Partnership would maintain its ownership interest and to write down Broadway Terrace's mortgage to approximately $700,000. The Partnership has consented to this effort to try and keep this Project viable and has engaged professionals to begin working on the 100% transfer and mortgage write-down. In the year a write-down is effected the Partnership will recognize a gain equal to the amount of the write-down, however, it is anticipated that the Partnership will have sufficient losses with which to off-set this gain so it will have no consequence to the Limited Partners other than reducing the amount of losses they will be allocated in the year of the write-down.
LONGVIEW TERRACE, LTD.
Although Longview Terrace, Ltd. was not delinquent on its real estate taxes, had the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner simply abandoned its general partnership interest in this Operating Partnership and an affiliate of Megan Asset Management not become the substitute general partner, the Project owned by Longview Terrace would likely have been subject to foreclosure by RD.
In consideration of an affiliate of Megan Asset Management becoming the Operating General Partner of Longview Terrace, Ltd., RD has not foreclosed on its mortgage and is permitting this Operating Partnership to remain in operation. This permitted the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and avoid recapture of previously taken and used Tax Credits.
PONTOTOC RIDGE, LTD.
Had the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner simply abandoned its general partnership interest in this Operating Partnership and an affiliate of Megan Asset Management not become the substitute general partner, the Project owned by Pontotoc Ridge would likely have been subject to foreclosure by RD. In consideration of the Partnership's making a loan of $14,985 in excess of its capital commitment to Pontotoc Ridge, to enable it to pay certain real estate taxes in arrears and having an affiliate of Megan Asset Management become the substitute general partner, RD has not foreclosed on its mortgage to Pontotoc Ridge and agreed to restructure its mortgage loan to finance the payment of the balance of the past due real estate taxes to permit this Operating
Partnership to remain in operation. This has permitted the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and avoid recapture of previously taken and used Tax Credits.
The Partnership has also paid professional fees in the amount of $122,125 on behalf of Broadway Terrace, Longview Terrace and Pontotoc Ridge, relating to the takeover and workout of these Operating Partnerships from the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner and successfully contesting the RD foreclosure proceedings with respect to Broadway Terrace. As the repayment of the fees for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of these Operating Partnerships is subject to their having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves, which these Operating Partnerships do not currently have, and RD's approval, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered from such Operating Partnerships by the Partnership.
ITEM 3.