Item 2. Properties.
Each Operating Partnership owns and operates a Project, which generated Tax Credits under Section 42 of the Tax Code over its initial 10-years of existence or slightly longer. A description of the Projects is contained in the following tables. Immediately following these tables, is a glossary which provides an explanation of certain terms used in the table headings, as well as a discussion of certain Projects.
Glossary
Developers Original Equity - The amount of original capital contributed or to have been contributed by the developer/general partner of the Operating Partnership.
Original Tax Items - The Partnership’s original allocation percentage of tax items from the Operating Partnerships, including income, gain, loss, deduction and tax credits.
Original Capital Events - The Partnership’s original allocation percentage of proceeds to be realized by the Operating Partnership upon the sale, refinancing, transfer or other disposal of all or a substantial portion of the assets of the Operating Partnership.
Bayfield’s Committed Capital Contribution - The amount of original capital contribution paid or to be paid by the Partnership for its limited partnership ownership interest in the Operating Partnership.
Accumulated LIHC (from Inception of Bayfield) - The amount of LIHC generated by the Operating Partnerships and allocated to the Partnership from the 7/1/90 inception of Bayfield through the tax year ending 12/31/04.
% of Interests Sold - The percentage of the Partnerships Interest in the Operating Partnerships sold pursuant to the Liquidity Program or further sales toward implementing an exit strategy as of the date of this report.
The following is additional information on certain Operating Partnerships which had operational, or other financial problems and the Partnership’s attempts to sell and sales of the Partnership’s interests in the Operating Partnerships:
PROJECTS LOST THROUGH OR SUBJECT TO FORECLOSURE
Anderson Country Estates, L.P., Cedar Crest Apartments, L.P., Gilman Senior Apartments, L.P., Lagrange Apartments-Phase II, L.P., Lewistown Apartments, L.P., Oakwood Apartments, Ltd., Perry Apartments, L.P. and Wayland Apartments, L.P.
In December, 2004 the Partnership learned that the following Operating Partnerships were being foreclosed upon by RD due to substantial deferred maintenance and extremely high vacancies:
•
Anderson Country Estates, L.P. a Missouri limited partnership, owner of a twenty-four (24) unit apartment project located in Palmyra, Missouri;
•
Cedar Crest Apartments, L.P., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of a sixteen (16) unit apartment project located in Bourbon, Missouri;
•
Gilman Senior Apartments, L.P., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of a six (6) unit apartment project located in Gilman City, Missouri;
•
Lagrange Apartments-Phase II, L.P., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of an eight (8) unit apartment project located in Lagrange, Missouri;
•
Lewistown Apartments, L.P., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of a twelve (12) unit apartment project located in Lewistown, Missouri;
•
Oakwood Apartments, Ltd., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of a twenty-four (24) unit apartment project located in Hannibal, Missouri;
•
Perry Apartments, L.P., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of an eight (8) unit apartment project located in Perry, Missouri; and
•
Wayland Apartments, L.P., a Missouri limited partnership, owner of an eight (8) unit apartment project located in Wayland, Missouri (the “Missouri Operating Partnerships”).
As each of the Missouri Operating Partnerships were the subject of contracts to purchase and option agreements, the Partnership had to repurchase the interests in Anderson Country Estates, L.P., Oakwood Apartments, Ltd. and Perry Apartments, L.P. from Dominium (as hereinafter defined) for $52,168; Gilman Senior Apartments, L.P. from AHP2 (as hereinafter defined) for $6,830; and Cedar Crest Apartments, L.P., Lagrange Apartments-Phase II, L.P., Lewistown Apartments, L.P. and Wayland Apartments, L.P. from MPF BA (as hereinafter defined) for $32,573.
Upon the payment of $10,000, the Partnership entered in to an Option with the Operating General Partners of the Missouri Operating Partnerships for their repurchase of Anderson Country Estates, L.P., Cedar Crest Apartments, L.P., Lagrange Apartments-Phase II, L.P., Lewistown Apartments, L.P., Oakwood Apartments, Ltd., and Perry Apartments, L.P. from the Partnership for $124,815. The Partnership is still negotiating with the Operating General Partners of the Missouri Operating Partnerships with respect to its interest in Gilman Senior Apartments, L.P. and Wayland Apartments, L.P. which have been foreclosed upon.
The Missouri Operating Partners exercised their option to purchase and did purchase Oakwood Apartments, Ltd. by an agreement dated the 27th day of September, 2005. The obligation by the Missouri General Partners to pay the purchase price, in the amount of $28,589 due and payable on or before December 31, 2005, was secured by a Security Agreement of even date.
While all of the Missouri Operating Partnerships generated the last of their Tax Credits to which they were entitled, $1,330,028, in years 1998 to 2002, and each, except for Gilman Senior Apartments, L.P., have achieved the end of its 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period, RD’s foreclose will not cause the Partnership to lose any future Tax Credits and to recapture any of the Tax Credits the Partnership received from these Projects over the years. With respect to Gilman Senior Apartments, L.P., as this Project was foreclosed upon on August 25, 2005, the Partnership will not lose any future Tax Credits, however in that the foreclosure took place in the 14th year of its 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period, the Partnership will be required to recapture two-fifths of one-third of the Tax Credits the Partnership received from this Project over the years or $8,753, or approximately $4 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest on its 2005 tax return, which recapture will be passed on to the Limited Partners on their 2005 K-1’s. In addition, the value of Gilman Senior Apartments of (i) $1,500 which was the price the Partnership had to pay to repurchase 49.5% of that Project from AHP #2 and (ii) the value of the balance of the sale price of $2,500 will likely be lost to the Partnership as a result of this foreclosure.
Wayland Apartments, L.P. was also foreclosed upon as scheduled in August, 2005. As it had already achieved the end of its 15-Year Tax Credit Compliance Period, RD’s foreclosure will not cause the Partnership to lose any future or have to recapture any prior Tax Credits. The value of Wayland Apartments of (i) $7,287 which was the price the Partnership had to pay to repurchase 49.5% of that Project from MPF BA and (ii) the value of the balance of the sale price of $8,317 will likely be lost to the Partnership as a result of this foreclosure, although the Partnership intends to attempt to collect said amounts from the Missouri General Partners.
SALE OF THE PARTNERSHIP’S INTERESTS IN THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIPS
Sale of Additional of the Partnership’s Interest in the Operating Partnerships
The Partnership continued the sale of its Partnership Interests back to the developer/General Partners of the Operating Partnerships who were interested in repurchasing the Partnership’s Interests in their Operating Partnerships and to others pursuant to its Liquidity Program and began further sales toward implementing an exit strategy and seeking the consents of a majority in interest of the Limited Partners (the “Required Consents”).
Negotiations with and Loans from Dominium Development and Acquisition, LLC
Early in 2000, a third party, Dominium Development and Acquisition, LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (“Dominium”) expressed an interest in buying Megan Asset Management’s general partnership interest and its other interests in the Partnership (collectively “General Partnership Interests”). Megan Asset Management declined this proposal as it did not include an immediate offer to purchase each of the interests in the Partnership from the Limited Partners as well.
Thereafter in July 2000, when Dominium suggested a proposal which was to include the purchase of substantially all of the Limited Partnership Interests and its General Partnership Interests, and the assumption of approximately $1,800,000 owed by the Partnership to the Operating General Partners, the Partnership and Megan Asset Management entered into an agreement by which they agreed to negotiate exclusively with Dominium with respect to said proposal through December 31, 2000 (the “Exclusivity Agreement”). Had this proposal materialized it was expected to yield $1,200 per 0.05% Limited Partnership Interest to the Limited Partners. However, prior to December 31, 2000, Dominium indicated that it had been unable to raise sufficient funds and was no longer able to discuss a price of this amount and could only discuss a price at approximately one-half of that amount. The revised proposal was unacceptable to the Partnership and the Exclusivity Agreement expired by its terms on December 31, 2000.
Not having found any other parties interested in making an offer for the Limited Partnership Interests or the Partnership’s Interests, in July 2001, the Partnership and Megan Asset Management entered into a second agreement with Dominium to pursue a possible tender offer for some or all of the Limited Partnership Interests, as well as a possible purchase of the stock of Megan Asset Management, including its General Partnership Interest (the “Second Exclusivity Agreement”) at the revised lower price. These negotiations ultimately proved unsuccessful and the Second Exclusivity Agreement expired by its terms on August 31, 2001. While further discussions followed, those discussions were not fruitful, were eventually curtailed and the Partnership’s search for and consideration of other alternatives continued.
In January, 2003, as no other buyers or alternatives were identified, the Partnership made an alternative proposal to Dominium for it to enter into one or more options to purchase the balance of the Partnership Interests in the Operating Partnerships, subject to the Required Consents. Dominium expressed an interest in this proposal and as an incentive to keep the Partnership from selling more of its Operating Partnership Interests under its Liquidity Program (see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” - “Liquidity” below) while Dominium considered and performed its due diligence in connection with the Partnership’s proposal, Dominium loaned $116,130 and $46,335 to the Partnership to assist it in covering its operating expenses, pursuant to a Loan Commitment dated April 2, 2003. The loan was evidenced by two promissory notes one dated April 16, 2003 and the other dated July 18, 2003, a Loan Agreement dated April 16, 2003 and First Amendment to Loan Agreement dated July 1, 2003 and was secured by security interests in five of the Partnership’s Operating Partnership Interests pursuant to a Security Agreement dated April 16, 2003.
In July, 2003 Dominium delivered a counter proposal to the Partnership which, after further negotiations, was accepted and resulted in the entry into a Purchase Agreement by the Partnership and Megan Asset Management and a newly formed affiliate of Dominium, Bayfield Acquisition Limited Partnership, a Minnesota limited partnership (“BALP”), dated September 19, 2003 (the “BALP Purchase Agreement”), however, under the BALP Purchase Agreement, BALP had a further ninety days to complete its due diligence and terminate the BALP Purchase Agreement at its sole discretion (“Due Diligence Period”) prior to its scheduled closing on the transaction on December 23, 2003.
In summary, the BALP Purchase Agreement provided, with respect to the Partnership’s Interests in 123 Operating Partnerships, that BALP would:
(i)
Purchase forty-nine and one-half percent of each of the Partnership’s Interests and its Accounts Receivable in those 61 Operating Partnerships which achieved the end of their 15-year Tax Credit Compliance Period on or before January 1, 2003 (the “49.5% Operating Partnership Interests”) and purchase thirty-three percent of the Partnership’s Interests and its Accounts Receivable in each of those 62 Operating Partnership which will achieve the end of their Tax Credit Compliance Period on or after January 1, 2004 (the “33% Operating Partnership Interests”) for $444,939, plus to the extent that it relates to the 49.5% Operating Partnership Interests and the 33% Operating Partnership Interests, respectively (a) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement, (b) the 8% interest still due by the Partnership to many of the Operating Partnerships payable pursuant to Article 15 (1)(a)(ii) of the Plan as a first priority from the proceeds of any Capital Events (the “8% Interest Obligation”) estimated at $609,847 with respect to the 49.5% Operating Partnership Interests and the 33% Operating Partnership Interests; and (c) $942,659 to Megan Asset Management in satisfaction of the Partnership’s obligation to Megan Asset Management for Megan Asset Management’s Continental Interest Claim with respect to the 49.5% Operating Partnership Interests and the 33% Operating Partnership Interests;
(ii)
Upon the payment of $123,000, the Partnership would grant BALP an option:
(a)
To purchase a further sixteen and one-half percent of the 33% Operating Partnerships which would achieve the end of their Tax Credit Compliance Period after January 1, 2004 (the “Short Option” and the “Short Option Interests”), for $122,266, plus to the extent that it relates to the Short Option Interests (a) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement; (b) the 8% Interest Obligation of an estimated $104,881; and (c) $106,658 to Megan Asset Management in satisfaction of the Partnership’s obligation to Megan Asset Management for Megan Asset Management’s Continental Interest Claim;
(b)
To (I) purchase the balance of (a) the Partnership’s Interests in, (b) the related Accounts Receivable and (c) the related Annual Distributions from the 49.5% Operating Partnership Interests and the 33% Operating Partnerships which would achieve the end of their Tax Credit Compliance Period on January 1, 2004; and (II) to purchase a further fifty and one-half percent of (a) the Partnership’s Interests in and (b) the related Accounts Receivable from the 33% Operating Partnerships which would achieve the end of their Tax Credit Compliance Period after January 1, 2004 (collectively, the “First Option Interests”) in the 15th month after the Closing, subject to the receipt of the Required Consents (the “First Option”), for $613,884, plus to the extent that it relates to the First Option Interests (a) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement, (b) the 8% Interest Obligation of an estimated $760,769; and (c) $1,095,069 to Megan Asset Management in satisfaction of the balance of the Partnership’s obligation to Megan Asset Management for Megan Asset Management’s Continental Interest Claim; and
(c)
To purchase the balance of all of (a) the Partnership’s Interests, (b) the related Accounts Receivable and (c) the related Annual Distributions previously not transferred pursuant to the BALP Purchase Agreement (the “Second Option Interests”) in the 13th month after the Third Closing, subject to the receipt of the Required Consents (the “Second Option”), for $34,524, plus to the extent that it relates to the Second Option Interests (a) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement, (b) the 8% Interest Obligation of an estimated $30,975; and (c) $24,068, to Megan Asset Management in satisfaction of the balance of the Partnership’s obligation to Megan Asset Management for Megan Asset Management’s Continental Interest Claim.
In further consideration of the Partnership’s agreement not to sell additional interests in its 123 Operating Partnerships prior to the Closing contemplated by the BALP Purchase Agreement, Dominium made subsequent loans to the Partnership during its Due Diligence Period in the amount of $120,000 on September 25, 2003 (the “First Subsequent Loan”), $60,000 on October 23, 2003 (the “Second Subsequent Loan”) and $60,000 in November, 2003 (the “Third Subsequent Loan” and collectively “Subsequent Loans”). Each Subsequent Loan was evidenced by a promissory note and secured by collateral interests in the Partnership’s Interests in the following fourteen (14) Operating Partnerships (the “Dominium Collateral Partnerships):
AFM RRH, Ltd.
Anderson County Estates
Blanchard Apartments
Bunkie Apartments
Cottonwood Seniors Apts
Coushatta Seniors Apts
Donaldsonville Seniors
Joaquin Apartments
Many Seniors Apartments
Oakdale-T F Management
Oakwood Apartments Ltd
Pecanwood Apts Iii, Ltd.
Perry Apartments
Southern Apartments
Dominium Failed Sale
In December, 2003, after three years of exclusivity agreements, the BALP Purchase Agreement, extensive due diligence and attempts to close a deal with Dominium, Dominium could not raise the money to pay the purchase price and terminated the BALP Purchase Agreement prior to its scheduled closing on December 23, 2003. However, as of January 1, 2004, Dominium did exercise its option to purchase 49.5% of the Partnership’s Interests in the Dominium Collateral Partnerships by the cancellation of a proportionate amount for the principal and interest due on the Loan and the Subsequent Loans and maintained its option to purchase the balance of the Dominium Collateral Partnerships in 2005.
The BALP Purchase Agreement, had it closed was expected to have resulted in only an estimated final distribution payment of less than $250 to the Limited Partners for each unit they owned in the Partnership, after payment of the Partnership’s obligations and expenses of the sale and liquidation.
Sale of Eleven Operating Partnership Interests to Dominium Development and Acquisition, LLC
As of January 1, 2005, Dominium did exercise its option to purchase the balance of the Partnership’s Interests in the Dominium Collateral Partnerships, other than Anderson Country Estates, L.P., Oakwood Apartments, Ltd., and Perry Apartments, L.P., which were repurchased by the Partnership (as discussed above), by the cancellation of the balance of principal totaling $402,465 dollars and all interest due on the Loan and the Subsequent Loans.
Sale of Five Operating Partnership Interests to Affordable Housing Limited Partnership No.
In July, 2003 the Partnership negotiated a contract to purchase limited partnership interests with Affordable Housing Partners No. 1 (“AHP1”) dated the 30th day of September, 2003 (the “AHP1 Contract to Purchase”) for the purchase of the Partnership’s Interests in the following five Operating Partnerships (the “Five Operating Partnerships”):
Alachua Villas
Citrus Terrace, Ltd.
Lake City Village
Longview Terrace Ltd.
Pontotoc Ridge Apts
In summary, the AHP1 Contract to Purchase provided that AHP1 would close upon the purchase of one-third of the Partnership’s Interests in the Five Operating Partnerships for $44,500, plus the assumption of a proportionate amount of: (i) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement and (ii) the 8% Interest Obligation to the extent that it relates to the Operating Partnership Interests being transferred in the approximate amount of $39,337. This purchase closed on the 21st day of October, 2003.
The AHP1 Contract to Purchase further provided that in consideration of the payment of $5,000 the Partnership granted AHP1 options to purchase the balance of the Partnership’s Interests in each of the Five Operating Partnership in January 2004. The options to purchase were exercised with respect to each of the Five Operating Partnerships and the option purchase prices totaling $100,500 dollars was paid in January 2004.
Sale of Fifteen Operating Partnership Interests to Affordable Housing Limited Partnership No. 2
As of the 15th day of April, 2004, an affiliate of AHP1, Affordable Housing Limited Partnership No. 2 (“AHP2”) entered into a contract to purchase limited partnership interests with the Partnership (the “AHP2 Contract to Purchase”) for the purchase of up to fifty percent (50%) of the Partnership’s Interests in the following fifteen Operating Partnerships (the “Fifteen Operating Partnerships”):
Gilman Seniors
Canal Town Associates
Cle Elum
Cleveland Courts, Ltd.
East Magnolia Village
Elliott Manor, Ltd
Franklin Vista II
Hitchcock Housing
Hurricane
Kent Summit, Ltd.
Kingswood Ii, Ltd.
Lakecrest Apartments
Laurel Wood Apts., Ltd.
Lead Bayou, Ltd.
Riverbend Apartments
In summary, the AHP2 Contract to Purchase provided that AHP2 would close upon the purchase of up to fifty percent of the Partnership’s Interests in the Fifteen Operating Partnerships for $160,000, plus the assumption of a proportionate amount of: (i) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement and (ii) the 8% Interest Obligation to the extent that it relates to the Operating Partnership Interests being transferred in the approximate amount of $79,550.
The AFHP2 Contract to Purchase further provided that in consideration of the payment of $15,000 the Partnership granted AHP2 an option to purchase the balance of the Partnership’s Interests in the Fifteen Operating Partnerships on or after July 15, 2005. The option to purchase was exercised with respect to all but one of the Fifteen Operating Partnerships (Gilman Senior Apartments as it was the subject of a foreclosure sale by RD, as discussed above, and only up to sixteen and one-half percent of the Partnership interests in Elliott Manor, Ltd., Kent Summit, Ltd., Lakecrest Apartments and Lead Bayou, Ltd. which would not have achieved the end of their 15-year Tax Credit Compliance Period and could not be sold until late in 2006 to avoid a technical termination of those Operating Partnerships which would cause adverse tax consequences to AHP2, but which continue subject to an option to purchase by AHP2). The option purchase price of $162,126 was paid in July 2005 by AHP2 and an affiliated of AHP2, Affordable Housing Limited Partnership No. 9 (“AHP9”), and the interests under option were split between AHP2 and AHP9.
Negotiations with Housing and Tax Consultants, LLC
As of July 15, 2004 an affiliate of Affordable Housing Limited Partnership Nos. 1, 2 and 9, Housing and Tax Consultants, LLC (“HTC”) entered into a contract to purchase limited partnership interests with the Partnership (the “HTC Contract to Purchase”) for the purchase of up to fifty percent of the Partnership’s Interests in seventy-seven of the Partnership’s Operating Partnership (the “Seventy-Seven Operating Partnerships”):
In summary, the HTC Contract to Purchase provided that HTC would close upon the purchase of up to fifty percent of the Partnership’s Interests in the Seventy-Seven Operating Partnerships on or before October 15, 2004 for $1,122,7801, plus the assumption of a proportionate amount of: (i) the Partnership’s obligations as the Limited or Investor Partner under each Operating Partnership Agreement and (ii) the 8% Interest Obligation to the extent that it relates to the Operating Partnership Interests being transferred in the approximate amount of $1,114,709.
HTC failed to close on the purchase of up to fifty percent (50%) of the Partnership’s Interest in the Seventy-Seven Operating Partnerships, demanded and was granted an extension by the Partnership to close until November 30, 2004 to enable it additional time to raise the funds with which to pay the purchase price. On November 30, 2004 HTC again failed to close and defaulted on the HTC Contract to Purchase.
The HTC Contract to Purchase, had it closed would have resulted in only an estimated $50 final distribution payment to the Limited Partners for each 0.05% unit owned by the Partnership’s Limited Partners, after payment of the Partnership’s obligations and expenses of the sale and liquidation.
Sale of Eighty-one Operating Partnership Interests to MPF Bayfield Acquisition, LLC
On December 23, 2004, the Partnership entered into a Purchase Agreement (the “MPF Purchase Agreement”) with MPF Bayfield Acquisition, LLC, a California limited liability company and an affiliate of Mackenzie Patterson Fuller, Inc. (“MPF BA”) and Mackenzie Patterson Fuller, Inc. (the “Guarantor”) for the purchase up to forty-nine and one-half percent of the Partnership’s Interests in eighty-one Operating Partnerships (the “81 Operating Partnerships”). The MPF Purchase Agreement also provides MPF BA with options to purchase the remaining Partnership Interests in the 81 Operating Partnerships between December 1 and December 30, 2005, when such purchase and sale will not cause a technical termination of the Partnerships and adverse tax consequences to MPF BA, subject to the Required Consents. Under the terms of the MPF Purchase Agreement, Guarantor unconditionally guaranteed the MPF BA’s obligations under the MPF Purchase Agreement.
Pursuant to the terms of the MPF Purchase Agreement, MPF BA agreed to:
(ii)
Assume up to 49.5% of the Partnership’s 8% Interest Obligation with respect to the Partnership Interests being purchased in the approximate amount of $595,250; and
(iii)
Assume up to 49.5% of the Partnership’s obligations as a limited partner under each of the Operating Partnerships that arise on and after the date of the Agreement.
All Cash Consideration to be paid after the signing of the MPF Purchase Agreement was evidenced by secured promissory notes of MPF BA and guarantied by the Guarantor.
Pursuant to the MPF Purchase Agreement, upon the payment of $81,000, the Partnership granted MPF BA (i) an option to purchase an additional 16.5% of the Partnership’s Interests in certain of the Operating Partnerships exercisable on or between January 1, 2005 and January 15, 2005, for $34,494 (the “Short Option” which was exercised and closed in accordance with its terms) and (ii) an option to purchase the balance of the Partnership’s Interests in the Operating Partnerships on or between December 1, 2005 and December 30, 2005, subject to the Required Consents, for $1,740,594 (the “First Option”).
The MPF Purchase Agreement provides for a repurchase of any Partnership Interests by the Partnership in the event that an Operating Partnership experiences an event that would cause a minimum gain chargeback with respect to that Operating Partnership such that MPF BA will not be able to match such income allocations with applicable losses from the sale of such Partnership Interests.
Pursuant to the MPF Purchase Agreement, Megan Asset Management, the Partnership’s general partner and MPF BA have executed a management agreement whereby Megan Asset Management will perform certain management, financial, and tax services for MPF BA with respect to the Partnership Interests purchased. Fees paid to Megan Asset Management pursuant to this contract are not to exceed a pro rata portion of $52,000 annually until, if at all, the First Option is exercised.
The MPF Purchase Agreement, if the promissory notes due December 15, 2005 and June 15, 2006, are paid and if MPF BA exercises its option to purchase the balance of the Partnership’s interests in those Operating Partnerships and, as a result thereof, the notes payable through June, 2008 are paid, it together with the exercise of the few other options to purchase outstanding, would be expected to result in only an estimated $3 final distribution payment for each Unit owned by the Partnership’s limited partners, after payment of the expenses of implementing the sales, the required SEC consent and solicitation of the Limited Partner’s approval, payment of all of the Partnership’s obligations and liquidation of the Partnership.
Item 3.