Item 2. Properties.
Each Operating Partnership owns and operates a Project, which generated Tax Credits under Section 42 of the Tax Code over its initial 10-years of existence or slightly longer. A description of the Projects is contained in the following tables. Immediately following these tables, a glossary which provides an explanation of certain terms used in the table headings, as well as a discussion of certain Projects.
Glossary
Developers Original Equity
- The amount of original capital contributed or to have been contributed by the developer/general partner of the Operating Partnership. Tax Items - The Partnership's allocation percentage of tax items from the Operating Partnerships, including income, gain, loss, deduction and tax credits.
Capital Events - The Partnership's allocation percentage of proceeds to be realized by the Operating Partnership upon the sale, refinancing, transfer or other disposal of all or a substantial portion of the assets of the Operating Partnership.
Bayfield's Committed Capital Contribution - The amount of original capital contribution paid by the Partnership for its limited partnership ownership interest in the Operating Partnership.
Approx. Avg. Annual Anticipated Federal Credits - The maximum amount of Tax Credits contracted by the general partners of the Operating Partnerships to the Partnership for the 10-year period which commenced over a three year period from 1987 through 1989.
1997 LIHC Credits - The amount of Low Income Housing Credits ("LIHC") generated by the Operating Partnerships and allocated to the Partnership for the tax year ending 12/31/97.
Accumulated LIHC (from Inception of Bayfield) - The amount of LIHC generated by the Operating Partnerships and allocated to the Partnership from the 7/1/90 inception of Bayfield through the tax year ending 12/31/97.
(The above list of Operating Partnerships does not include the Partnership's investment in several investor partnerships that own limited partnership interests in Operating Partnerships.)
The following is additional information on certain Operating Partnerships which had operational or other financial problems either during or which continued during the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 1998:
Shaker Housing Credit L.P
In the 1996 Fiscal Year, Shaker Housing Credit L.P. ("Shaker Housing"), an Operating Partnership, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws, following the institution of foreclosure proceedings by its lender, despite advances from the Partnership of $52,000 in excess of the Partnership's capital commitment. This Operating Partnership's Project, Shaker Housing, located in Cleveland, Ohio, had experienced prolonged vacancies, attributable in part to the failure of its management company to maintain the apartments, and structural damage effectively eliminating one apartment. A new management company, Biskind Management, had been put in place by the Operating Partnership, which attempted to increase occupancy in order to enable the Operating Partnership to emerge from bankruptcy under a plan of reorganization; however, the bank holding the first mortgage on the Project obtained an order from the bankruptcy court allowing it to proceed with a foreclosure sale of the property. The Partnership determined that it was no longer economically feasible to incur further costs to attempt to save this Project. The Project was sold to the bank holding the first mortgage at a foreclosure sale. As a result of the foreclosure this Operating Partnership lost its interest in the Project.
As a result of the loss of this Operating Partnership's Project the Partnership will not receive, or be entitled to, anticipated aggregate Tax Credits of $210,000 from 1996 to 1998. Further, Tax Credits of $163,000 were subject to recapture along with $61,000 in interest, that were passed through to the Limited Partners on their 1996 Schedule K-1. Limited Partners are not expected to be subject to any further tax recapture or interest and penalties with respect to the loss of this Project.
Alachua Villas, Ltd., Citrus Terrace, Ltd. and Lake City Village, Ltd.
In the 1995 Fiscal Year, Megan Asset Management, as general partner of the Partnership, and the Partnership commenced an action in the Circuit Court of Alachua County, Florida as the sole limited partner of, and derivatively on behalf of, two Operating Partnerships, Lake City Village, Ltd. and Alachua Villas, Ltd., against John D. Carver ("Carver"), the general partner of these Operating Partnerships, and a management company affiliated with Carver, G & R Management Services, Inc. ("G & R"). The actions arose as a result of the acceleration by RD of the entire balance due on the mortgage against these Operating Partnerships. RD alleged various defaults under such Operating Partnership's loan agreements, promissory notes and mortgages with RD (the "RD Documents"), including failure to pay real estate taxes, failure to maintain account balances sufficient to pay current operating and maintenance expenses, failure to maintain adequate records and file required reports, and failure to correct deficiencies previously noted by RD during its supervisory visits to the housing projects.
After extensive motion practice and discovery, on January 13, 1995, a settlement agreement was entered into providing for a designated representative of the Partnership (a company under common ownership and control with Megan Asset Management) to take over management of the affected Operating Partnerships and the replacement of Carver as general partner subject to the consent of RD (which was obtained in December, 1995). This settlement agreement also provides for an audit of the two Operating Partnerships and Citrus Terrace Village Ltd., an Operating Partnership unaffiliated with Carver, but which G&R managed ("Citrus Terrace"). This audit uncovered possible claims of the two Operating Partnerships and Citrus Terrace against the defendants totaling $83,599, which amount was contested by Carver. Following a hearing on November 13, 1997, the Court ruled that it would enter summary judgment in favor of the Partnership against Carver in the amount of $78,599 together with interest from January 24, 1996. Thereafter Carver appealed the Court's entry of judgment in favor of the Partnership. After the filing of briefs and hearing the arguments the Circuit Court of Appeal, First District, State of Florida dismissed Carver's appeal and the judgment in favor of the Partnership became final. Subsequently, the Partnership applied for an award of attorney's fees and cost pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement. By an order dated March 2, 2001, the Partnership's application for an award of attorneys' fees and costs was granted by the Court in the sum of $34,012.95 as attorney's fees and $787.00 as costs for the total sum of $34,799.95. While the Partnership is making attempts to recover against Carver with respect to the judgment and award of attorney's fees and costs on behalf of itself and the affected Operating Partnerships, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered.
Further, in the 1996 Fiscal Year, in an attempt to recover upon its claims and the sums taken by Carver from the two Operating Partnerships, other than Citrus Terrace, the Partnership commenced a further action in the Circuit Court of Alachua County, Florida against Mercurio & Bridgford, P.A. and John J. Mercurio (together, "Mercurio"), who provided auditing services to each of Lake City Village, Ltd., Alachua Villas, Ltd. and Citrus Terrace, based upon their failure to report the improper payments made by John D. Carver, Jr.
After a jury trial in the Circuit Court of Alachua County, Florida, in November, 1998, the jury reach a verdict that the defendants had not caused the Partnership's and Operating Partnerships' financial loss. Following the jury's verdict, defendants have sought $55,545 recovery for their costs and attorneys' fees against the Partnership. The Partnership and counsel to the Partnership did not believe the Partnership was obligated for defendants' cost and attorneys' fees and defended against such claim, however, the Court concluded that the Partnership would be liable for costs incurred by defendants in the amount of $18,464.70. Subsequently, the Partnership reached a settlement agreement with defendants and paid $13,000 to defendants in full settlement of all costs and attorney's fees due to defendants.
In consideration of the Partnership's making loans of $24,655 and $25,310 in excess of its capital commitment to Lake City Village, Ltd. and Alachua Villas, Ltd. respectively, to enable them to pay certain outstanding real estate taxes in arrears, RD has not foreclosed on its mortgages to such Operating Partnerships and has restructured such mortgages to finance the payment of the balance of the past due real estate taxes and to permit such Operating Partnerships to remain in operation. This has permitted the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and to avoid any recapture on Tax Credits taken in prior years. Had RD foreclosed on its loans and the Partnership lost its interest in Lake City Village, Ltd. and Alachua Villas, the Partnership would not have been entitled to aggregate Tax Credits of $392,300 through 1999, or approximately $196 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest. In addition, assuming that 100% of the Tax Credits previously allocated to the Limited Partners relating to these Operating Partnerships were used by them, it is estimated that the Limited Partners would have been subject to a total tax recapture with respect to these Operating Partnerships of $186,709 or approximately $93 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest, plus interest and penalties, if any.
In addition to the above loans in excess of its capital commitment, during the fiscal year ending 3/31/98 the Partnership made an additional loan of $20,714 to Lake City Village to cover the cost of maintenance, which had been deferred by Carver, in an attempt to keep the units in this Project habitable and available for rent.
While the Partnership has obtained a promissory note from each Operating Partnership and a security interest in the Operating General Partners' interests in each Operating Partnership, the repayment of the loans with accrued interest is subject to each Operating Partnership's having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover its ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves and RD's approval, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered from such Operating Partnerships.
The Partnership has also paid professional fees on behalf of each Operating Partnership relating to the litigation against the former general partner and takeover and workout of these Operating Partnerships in the amount of $55,462 on behalf of Alachua Villas and $55,638 on behalf of Lake City Village. Said payments have been reflected as a note payable to the Partnership on the financial statements of each Operating Partnership. Any sums recovered by the Operating Partnerships from the judgment obtained against Carver, the former general partner, will be paid to the Partnership in reduction of these loans, subject to the then financial condition of each Operating Partnership.
Also in the 1995 Fiscal Year, the Partnership commenced a further action in the Circuit Court of Highlands County, Florida on behalf of Citrus Terrace substantially similar to that described above, against George T. Wheeler ("Wheeler"), individually and as the general partner of Citrus and against Carver, as Trustee of G & R, and G & R , which management company was also managing the Project owned by Citrus Terrace. A substantially similar settlement agreement has been entered into and implemented in connection with and this litigation has also been settled, except for the recovery of the sum of approximately $5,000 in an unauthorized loan taken by Carver from Citrus Terrace. It is not likely going to be economically feasible for the Partnership to attempt to recover this latter sum against Carver with respect to such claim.
In consideration of an affiliate of Megan Asset Management becoming the substitute general partner of Citrus Terrace, RD did not foreclose on its mortgage to Citrus Terrace, and it has restructured the mortgage to finance the payment of past due real estate taxes to permit this Operating Partnership to remain in operation, notwithstanding the damages suffered by it. This permitted the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and to avoid any recapture on Tax Credits taken in prior years. If RD had foreclosed on its loans and the Partnership lost its interest in such Operating Partnership, the Partnership would not have been entitled to aggregate Tax Credits of $283,136 through 1999, or approximately $142 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest. In addition, assuming that 100% of the Tax Credits previously allocated to the Limited Partners relating to this Operating Partnership were used by them, it is estimated that the Limited Partners would have been subject to a total tax recapture with respect to this Operating Partnership of $115,731, or approximately $58 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest, plus interest and penalties, if any.
The Partnership has also paid professional fees on behalf of Citrus Terrace relating to the litigation against the former general partner and the takeover and workout of this Operating Partnership in the amount of $57,098. Said payments have been reflected as a note payable to the Partnership on the financial statements of the Operating Partnership. As the repayment of the fees for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of Citrus Terrace is subject to its having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves and RD's approval, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered by this Operating Partnership.
Flambeau Village, L.P.
The Partnership was made aware that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") audited the 1993 and 1994 income tax returns for one of the Partnership's Operating Partnerships, Flambeau Village, L.P. ("Flambeau Village"), the owner of a 53 unit, mixed income, elderly Project (26 units of low income housing tax credit restricted tenants and 27 units of unrestricted market rate income tenants) located in Ladysmith, Wisconsin.
Flambeau Village is the Partnership's largest single producer of tax credits with approximately $163,000 in annual tax credits. Accordingly, the Partnership engaged legal and tax counsel and tax credit compliance experts to review the compliance by the Flambeau Village Developer/General Partner with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC"), meet with the IRS and actively monitor the situation. As a result of a meeting between the professionals engaged by the Partnership and the IRS, the Partnership was informally informed that the IRS had concluded that Flambeau Village had failed to meet the minimum set-aside and rent restriction tests of Section 42 of the IRC and therefore, it had not qualified for and was not entitled Tax Credits for any year. The IRS however did not issued a formal report at the time and its investigation and the Developer/General Partner's negotiations with the IRS continued.
In view of the above, the Partnership made the decision not to allocate any of the approximately $163,000 of Tax Credits of Flambeau Village for 1996 to its Limited Partners in order to minimize or make a provision for potential recapture, penalties and interest if the IRS ultimately should disallow some or all of the previous allocated Flambeau Village Tax Credits. As no report from the IRS was forthcoming and the Developer/General Partner continued to negotiate with the IRS, the Partnership did allocate the approximately $163,000 of Tax Credits from Flambeau Village for each of 1997 and 1998 to its Limited Partners, although it had not allocated any of the 1996 Tax Credits from Flambeau Village to its Limited Partners.
Subsequently, in connection with the IRS's criminal investigation of the activities of principals, former officers of or persons related to Flambeau Village's Developer/General Partner, the Partnership learned that one of the Developer/General Partner's principals and former officers pleaded guilty to charges filed by the IRS relating to other activities (not involving the IRS's audit of Flambeau Village's 1993 and 1994 tax returns) and was sentenced to and served a two year jail sentence.
In connection with the actions of the Developer/General Partner with respect to Flambeau Village, the IRS by letter dated September 29, 1999, formally notified Flambeau Village that it had determined that Flambeau Village is not entitled to claim any tax credits for any year that the Project was in existence. Since 1989, the Partnership has received a total of $1,663,311 in Tax Credits in connection with its Limited Partnership interest in Flambeau Village. Of these tax credits, $1,482,898 have been allocated to the Limited Partners of the Partnership.
Although there can be no assurance that the IRS will not seek to recapture all of the Tax Credits generated by Flambeau Village, other than for the years 1993 and 1994, the Partnership's counsel believes, after considering the IRS letter which reflects that no adjustments will be proposed by the IRS either at the partnership level or individual partner level for 1993 and 1994, absent a finding of fraud by the IRS with respect to the activities of the Developer/General Partner with respect to Flambeau Village, and the fact that the statute of limitations has run for years prior to 1998, that the IRS will not likely make any adjustment for the Tax Credits allocated by Flambeau Village to the Partnership and by the Partnership to its Limited Partners for the years 1989 through 1997. It is not known what position with respect to adjustments the IRS will take, if any, for the subsequent year 1998 for which Tax Credits were allocated to and passed through by the Partnership to its Limited Partners. No Tax Credits were passed through by the Partnership for the year 1996 and, in view of the above, the Partnership elected not to pass through Tax Credits allocated by Flambeau Village to it in the amount of $17,727 for the year 1999, which was the last year the Partnership was entitled to tax credits.
If the IRS takes the subsequent position that adjustments will be proposed at the partnership level, or individual partner level, for the years 1995, 1997 and 1998 (i.e. those years not covered by the IRS's September 29, 1999 letter) or the years prior to 1993 for which Tax Credits were allocated to the Partnership and passed through to its Limited Partners, assuming that 100% of the Tax Credits so allocated to the Limited Partners relating to Flambeau Village were used by the Limited Partners, it is estimated that the Limited Partners would be subject to recapture of Tax Credits with respect to Flambeau Village of an estimated $385,000 or approximately $250 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest, plus interest and penalties, if any.
As a result of the loss of the 1996 and 1999 Tax Credits not taken by the Partnership in the aggregate amount of $179,142 and the additional costs incurred by the Partnership of $117,815 to have its professionals review the compliance by the Flambeau Village Developer/General Partner with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, meet with the IRS and actively monitor the situation, the Partnership is reviewing the likelihood of successfully pursuing a claim against and attempting to recover compensatory damages for such losses from the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village and any affiliate deemed responsible under the terms of Flambeau Village Operating Partnership agreement, the Partnership's Plan and common law. However, in the event a claim is filed there can be no assurance that any amounts will be recovered by the Partnership.
In connection with its evaluation of the feasibility of pursuing a claim against the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village and any affiliate, the Independent Manager had an independent appraisal of the Project performed. The appraisal, dated as of January 4, 2000, showed an appraised value of $1,700,000. As of December 31, 1999, the Project had a mortgage payable of $1,603,455. Accordingly, the Project's appraised value appears to be only $96,545 above the Project's first mortgage loan.
As the Partnership through its ownership of the limited partnership interests in Flambeau Village already owns a 50% interest in the equity of that Operating Partnership, should that Operating Partnership have a value, after offsetting other assets and other liabilities, of the net appraised value over the Project's mortgage or $96,545, the Developer/General Partner's 50% interest in the equity of the Operating Partnership would only be approximately $45,773. Accordingly, the Partnership will not commence an action to attempt to recover the damages the Partnership has suffered as a result of the breaches of the Operating Partnership Agreement by the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village, unless the Partnership can first determine the availability of other assets of the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village from which a damage award could be satisfied.
As the repayment of the fees of $117,815 for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of Flambeau Village is subject to its having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves, which this Operating Partnership presently does not have, and negotiations with or successful litigation against with the Developer/General Partner of Flambeau Village, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered by the Partnership.
Broadway Terrace of Drew, L.P., Longview Terrace, Ltd., and Pontotoc Ridge, Ltd.
The sole operating general partner of three Operating Partnerships, Broadway Terrace of Drew, L.P., Longview Terrace, Ltd. and Pontotoc Ridge, Ltd. located in the state of Mississippi in which the Partnership owns the limited partnership interests, died during the fiscal year ended 3/31/1998. After several months of attempting to sell the deceased Operating General Partner's 5% general partner and 50% equity interests in these three Operating Partnerships, the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner advised the Partnership that it was abandoning its interest in the three Operating Partnerships. Thereupon, Megan Asset Management caused one of its affiliates to be appointed Operating General Partner of the three Operating Partnerships in an attempt to preserve the Partnership's interests therein. Two of the three Operating Partnerships, Broadway Terrace of Drew, L.P. and Pontotoc Ridge, Ltd., had severely underfunded reserves and were delinquent in several years real estate taxes and were subject to possible foreclosure by RD.
Broadway Terrace of Drew, L.P.
At the time that an affiliate of Megan Asset Management began to manage Broadway Terrace of Drew it had severely under funded reserves and several years of delinquent real estate taxes. Further the Project had an entire building, containing 8 apartments, uninhabitable and unrentable due to severe vandalism, as a result of which RD commenced formal foreclosure proceedings. The Partnership engaged legal counsel on behalf of Broadway Terrace and was successful in stopping the foreclosure proceedings and getting RD to begin working with Megan Asset Management's affiliate to put a workout plan together toward saving the Project owned by this Operating Partnership. A workout plan is in the process of being negotiated.
Longview Terrace, Ltd.
Although Longview Terrace, Ltd. was not delinquent on its real estate taxes, had the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner simply abandoned its general partnership interest in this Operating Partnership and an affiliate of Megan Asset Management not become the substitute general partner, the Project owned by Longview Terrace would likely have been subject to foreclosure by RD.
In consideration of an affiliate of Megan Asset Management becoming the Operating General Partner of Longview Terrace, Ltd., RD has not foreclosed on its mortgage and is permitting this Operating Partnership to remain in operation. This permits the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and avoid recapture of previously taken and used Tax Credits.
Pontotoc Ridge, Ltd.
In consideration of the Partnership's making a loan of $14,985 in excess of its capital commitment to Pontotoc Ridge, to enable it to pay certain real estate taxes in arrears, RD has not foreclosed on its mortgage to Pontotoc Ridge and has restructured its mortgage loan to finance the payment of the balance of the past due real estate taxes to permit this Operating Partnership to remain in operation. This permits the Partnership and its Limited Partners to continue to receive the benefit of the Tax Credits related thereto and avoid recapture of previously taken and used Tax Credits.
The Partnership has also paid professional fees on behalf of Broadway Terrace, Longview Terrace and Pontotoc Ridge, relating to the takeover and workout of these Operating Partnerships from the estate of the deceased Operating General Partner and successfully contesting the RD foreclosure proceedings with respect to Broadway Terrace in the amount of $122,125. As the repayment of the fees for professional services paid by the Partnership on behalf of these Operating Partnerships is subject to their having sufficient cash flow from operations to cover ongoing operating expenses and fund the necessary reserves, which these Operating Partnerships do not currently have, and RD's approval, there can be no assurance that any such amounts will be recovered by such Operating Partnerships.
Oak Leaf Partnership, Ltd.
Pursuant to a syndication agreement dated April 6, 1989 and an Amended and Restated Agreement and Certificate of Limited Partnership of Oak Leaf Partnership, Ltd., dated as of June 13, 1989 and filed June 8, 1990, in the office of the Secretary of State of Mississippi (the "Operating Partnership Agreement"), the Partnership, through its predecessor-in-interest, Clayton Estates Limited Partnership, one of the original 52 Debtor Investor Partnerships, acquired the sole limited partnership interest in Oak Leaf Partnership, Ltd. which was to own Purdy Apartments a 16 unit, scattered site (having buildings at more than one physical location), Project in Jackson, Mississippi. Purdy Apartments were awarded $134,980 of low income housing tax credits by the Mississippi Home Corporation on December 30, 1988. In accordance with the Operating Partnership Agreement and the Plan, the Partnership paid the Operating Partnership capital contributions totaling $62,090.
The Partnership, including its predecessor-in-interest, was allocated Tax Credits and losses from 1989 through 1996. During the fiscal year ending March 31, 1996, the Partnership learned that Oak Leaf Partnership, Ltd. was not registered as a limited partnership with the Mississippi Secretary of State; that title to the various scattered sites was in the name of Paul W. Purdy, the general partner of Oak Leaf Partnership, Ltd. and not in the name of this Operating Partnership; a physical inspection revealed one of the lots on which one of the apartment buildings was to be located, did not exist; and that Paul W. Purdy had apparently sold the same ownership interest in Tax Credits and losses which he had sold to the Partnership to another, third-party limited partnership.
Accordingly, by a Complaint for Damages and Injunctive Relief, filed in or about March, 1997, the Partnership commenced a lawsuit against Paul W. Purdy and Purdy Apartments Limited Partnership, in the Chancery Court of The First Judicial District of Hinds County, Mississippi.
Subsequently, during the prosecution of the lawsuit, the Partnership confirmed what it had learned as a result of its investigation and further that defendant Paul W. Purdy was in ill-health and had no assets. After evaluating all of the findings and conferring with legal and tax counsel, the Partnership determined that it was not economically feasible to continue to pursue the lawsuit and the Partnership abandoned its recovery efforts and abandoned its interest in the Oak Leaf project.
As a result of the foregoing, the Partnership lost its interest in this Operating Partnership, and the Partnership did not receive aggregate Tax Credits of $25,646 for 1997 and 1998, or approximately $13 per 0.05% of Limited Partnership Interest which it was entitled to receive. In addition, in view of the foregoing, the Partnership recaptured $40,156 in Tax Credits in 1997, along with $18,098 interest by passing both through to the Limited Partners on their 1997 Schedule K-1..
The Partnership has also paid professional fees on behalf of Oak Leaf Partnership, Ltd. relating to its investigation and the litigation against the former general partner of this Operating Partnership in the amount of $12,890. Said payments have been written-off by the Partnership as uncollectible.
Item 3.