Item 2. "Properties - Corporate Headquarters and Distribution Facility and - Sublease of City of Industry Facility." Upon receipt from overseas manufacturers, the Company's products are inspected, sorted, packaged and shipped to retail accounts in the United States and abroad. While foreign-sourced footwear for domestic accounts is generally shipped to the Santa Fe Springs Facility, such footwear for international sales is typically shipped directly from the overseas manufacturers to VFEL's international distributors.
SOURCING AND MANUFACTURING
The Company purchases footwear and snowboard boots from VFEL, which sources such product from independent manufacturers in South Korea and China. During fiscal 1997, approximately 85% of the Company's shoes and 100% of the Company's snowboard boots were manufactured offshore by third party manufacturers. VFEL utilizes sourcing agents for its footwear and snowboard boots in South Korea. These agents assist the Company in selecting and overseeing third party contractors, ensuring quality, sourcing fabrics and monitoring quotas and other trade regulations. The Company's and VFEL's production staff and independent sourcing agents together oversee all aspects of manufacturing and production. As is common in the industry, there are no agreements between VFEL and any of its contractors or suppliers, however, the Company is advised that VFEL believes that its relationships with its contractors and suppliers are good.
Approximately 75% of the Company's clothing is sourced off-shore in countries such as China, Korea, Israel and India. The Company's clothing division works directly with the foreign factories to source and develop all fabrics, trims and styles for the line.
The Company manufactures vulcanized footwear at the 90,400 square foot Vista Facility. The Vista Facility allows the Company to produce a broader line of its vulcanized footwear products for its retail stores as well as its domestic and international accounts. The Vista Facility was established in 1992 to apply integrated cellular manufacturing techniques to the traditional method of shoemaking. During the second half of fiscal 1997, in response to increased demand for domestically-produced shoes, the Company increased production at the Vista Facility by nearly 50%, and increased the number of personnel at the Facility from approximately 400 to more than 600. The Company currently operates two shifts a day at the Vista Facility. Manufacturing generally operates on a five-day week, although Saturday shifts are common during periods of peak production, primarily in the Spring and "Back To School" seasons.
The Company's quality control program is designed to ensure that all goods bearing its trademarks meet the Company's standards. With respect to products manufactured by independent contractors, the Company ensures that VFEL develops and inspects prototypes of each product prior to manufacture by such contractors, establishes fittings based on the prototype, inspects samples and, through its employees or sourcing agents, inspects materials prior to production. VFEL or its sourcing agents inspect the final product prior to shipment to the Santa Fe Springs Facility. With respect to licensed products, the Company oversees the quality control programs of its licensees and regularly inspects samples of their products.
A wide range of materials are used in the domestic and offshore production of the Company's footwear. The Company has not experienced a significant manufacturing delay caused by the unavailability of raw materials, however, there can be no assurance that difficulties in obtaining raw materials, particularly specialized materials used in certain women's shoes, will not arise in the future or that any such difficulties would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. To date, the Company has not experienced any significant safety or health problems from the use or handling of these raw materials.
LICENSING
The Company has licensed certain of its trademarks for apparel and accessory products where the Company believed such arrangements would promote the VANS brand name and image consistent with the Company's overall marketing and promotion plan.
Currently, the Company has license agreements with five third party licensees. The licensees have the exclusive right to manufacture and sell certain products under the Company's trademarks in specified territories. The licenses provide for a royalty payment to the Company and typically establish minimum annual royalty amounts. In the U.S., the Company licenses its trademarks for socks. In Japan, the Company's license agreements cover footwear, caps, sports bags, snowboards, apparel, watches and sunglasses. In Germany, the license agreement covers a variety of bags and, in Italy, the Company's license agreement covers apparel. The Company is generally permitted to sell its licensed products through its retail stores and its distributors. The Company's licenses have varying expiration dates.
COMPETITION
Footwear Industry. The athletic and casual footwear industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of the quality and technical aspects of its products, the 30-year heritage of the VANS brand, and the brand's authenticity with its core customers and the athletes who participate in the sports sponsored by the Company. Many of the Company's competitors, such as Nike, Inc., Reebok International Ltd., Adidas AG and Fila Holding SpA, have significantly greater financial resources than the Company, have more comprehensive lines of product offerings, compete with the Company in the Far East for manufacturing sources and spend substantially more on product advertising than the Company. In addition, the general availability of offshore shoe manufacturing capacity allows for rapid expansion by competitors and new entrants in the footwear market. In this regard, the Company faces significant competition from large, well-known companies, such as Tommy Hilfiger and Nautica, which have significant brand recognition. In addition, in the casual footwear market, the Company competes with a number of companies,
such as Airwalk, Converse Inc. and Stride Rite Corporation (Keds), many of which may have significantly greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company also competes with smaller companies, such as D.C., Duffs and Etnies, which specialize in marketing to the Company's core skateboarding customers. The Company competes on the basis of the quality and technical aspects of its products, the 30-year heritage of the VANS brand, and the brand's authenticity with its core customers and the athletes who participate in the sports sponsored by the Company.
Snowboard Boot Industry. Although the Company has experienced substantial growth in sales of its line of snowboard boots, and is now one of the three industry leaders, it faces significant competition, most notably from Airwalk and Burton Snowboards, Inc., the other two industry leaders. The Company also anticipates that several large, well-known companies, such as Nike, Inc. and Fila SpA will enter the snowboard boot industry in the future. These companies are much larger and have greater financial resources than the Company, and have significant brand recognition.
Snowboarding is a relatively new sport and there can be no assurance that it will continue to grow at the rate experienced in recent years, or that its popularity will not decline. Moreover, the market for snowboarding is characterized by image-conscious consumers. The failure by the Company to accurately predict and target future trends or to maintain its progressive image could have a material adverse effect on its snowboard boots sales. The Company believes that its future success in the snowboard boot market will depend, in part, on its ability to continue to introduce innovative, well-received products, and there can be no assurance that it will do so.
Apparel Industry. The Company is a new entrant in the apparel business. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and many of the Company's competitors have significantly greater financial resources than the Company and spend substantially more on product advertising than the Company. Additionally, the apparel industry is particularly dependent on changes in fashion, which will require the Company to devote substantial resources to responding to changes in consumer preferences in a timely manner.
BACKLOG
As of August 28, 1997, the Company's backlog of orders for delivery in the second quarter of fiscal 1998 was approximately $19.7 million, as compared to approximately $16.1 million as of August 28, 1996. The Company's backlog amounts exclude orders from the Company's retail stores. The Company has, in the last 18 months, expanded its futures program which offers the Company's national accounts a discount for placing orders early. In addition, increased international sales have contributed to backlog as such sales typically have longer lead times. The Company's backlog also depends upon a number of other factors, including the timing of trade shows, during which a significant percentage of the Company's orders are received, the timing of shipments, product mix of customer orders and the amount of in-season orders. As a result of these and other factors, period-to-period comparisons of backlog may not necessarily be meaningful.
In addition, the Company has historically shipped less than all orders in its backlog and a large portion of its products late in the quarter. As a result, the Company may not learn of sales shortfalls until late in any particular fiscal quarter, which could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The Company holds trademarks, copyrights and patents on its products, brand names and designs which the Company believes are material to its business. The Company has made federal, state and international filings with respect to its material intellectual property, and intends to keep these filings current. The Company believes that its rubber "Off the Wall(R)" sole design, the VANS trademark, the logo incorporating the VANS trademark, and the striped designs known as the "Old Skool(TM)" and "Fairlane(TM)" designs, are significant to its business as they have been in use for many years and have gained acceptance among consumers and in the footwear industry. The Company is aware of potentially conflicting trademark claims in the United States, as well as certain countries in Europe, South America and the Far East, and is currently engaged in, or contemplating trademark opposition or other legal proceedings, with respect to these claims. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to use all of its trademarks in any of the jurisdictions where conflicts exist. The Company regards its trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believes that they have significant value in the marketing of its products. The Company vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement both in the United States and internationally, including through the use of cease and desist letters, administrative proceedings and lawsuits.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
In the ordinary course of business, the Vista Facility generates a small amount of hazardous waste which is stored on-site and transported off-site by registered waste haulers for disposal at permitted disposal facilities. The Company holds permits from local jurisdictions for discharging waste water, storing hazardous materials, emitting air pollutants, and operating
an air pollution control system and certain other machinery. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all applicable rules and regulations of federal, state and local environmental regulatory agencies.
EMPLOYEES
As of August 25, 1997, the Company had 1,269 employees. Of the Company's 1,269 employees, 999 are full-time employees and 270 are part-time employees (most of whom work at the Company's retail stores). The Company considers its employee relations to be satisfactory. The Company has never suffered a material interruption of business caused by labor disputes.
CERTAIN CONSIDERATIONS
Information contained or incorporated by reference in this Report contains "forward-looking statements" which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," or "anticipates." Set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements of the Company and its management.
BRAND STRENGTH; CHANGES IN FASHION TRENDS
The Company's success is largely dependent on the continued strength of the VANS brand and on its ability to anticipate the rapidly changing fashion tastes of its customers and to provide merchandise that appeals to their preferences in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that consumers will continue to prefer the VANS brand or that the Company will respond in a timely manner to changes in consumer preferences or that the Company will successfully introduce new models and styles of footwear and apparel. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing and product development efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create consumer demand. Decisions with respect to product designs often need to be made several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be determined. As a result, the Company's failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and features could lead to, among other things, excess inventories and higher markdowns, lower gross margins due to the necessity of providing discounts to retailers, as well as the inability to sell such products through Company-owned retail and factory outlet stores. Conversely, failure by the Company to anticipate consumer demand could result in inventory shortages, which can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers, negatively impacting retailer and distributor relationships and diminishing brand loyalty. The failure to introduce new products that gain market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect the image of the VANS brand name.
In response to consumer demand, the Company also uses certain specialized fabrics in its footwear and apparel. The failure of footwear or apparel using such fabrics to perform to customer satisfaction could result in a higher rate of customer returns and could adversely affect the image of the VANS brand name, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
The Company also has recently significantly increased the technical aspects of certain of its footwear and snowboard boots. The failure of such technical features to satisfy customers, or the failure of the Company to develop new and innovative technical features in a timely fashion, could adversely affect the VANS brand and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
COMPETITION
Footwear Industry. The athletic and casual footwear industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of the quality and technical aspects of its products, the 30-year heritage of the VANS brand, and the brand's authenticity with its core customers and the athletes who participate in the sports sponsored by the Company. Many of the Company's competitors, such as Nike, Inc., Reebok International Ltd., Adidas AG and Fila Holding SpA, have significantly greater financial resources than the Company, have more comprehensive lines of product offerings, compete with the Company in the Far East for manufacturing sources and spend substantially more on product advertising than the Company. In addition, the general availability of offshore shoe manufacturing capacity allows for rapid expansion by competitors and new entrants in the footwear market. In this regard, the Company faces significant competition from large, well-known companies, such as Tommy Hilfiger and Nautica, which have brand recognition. In addition, in the casual footwear market, the Company competes with a number of companies, such as Airwalk, Converse Inc. and Stride Rite Corporation (Keds), many of which may have significantly greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company also competes with smaller companies, such as D.C., Duffs and Etnies, which specialize in marketing to the Company's core skateboarding customers.
Snowboard Boot Industry. Although the Company has experienced substantial growth in sales of its line of snowboard boots, and is now one of the three industry leaders, it faces significant competition, most notably from Airwalk and Burton Snowboards, Inc., the other two industry leaders. The Company also anticipates that several large, well-known companies, such as Nike, Inc. and Fila SpA will enter the snowboard boot industry in the future. These companies are much larger and have greater financial resources than the Company, and have significant brand recognition.
Snowboarding is a relatively new sport and there can be no assurance that it will continue to grow at the rate experienced in recent years, or that its popularity will not decline. Moreover, the market for snowboarding is characterized by image-conscious consumers. The failure by the Company to accurately predict and target future trends or to maintain its progressive image could have a material adverse effect on its snowboard boots sales. The Company believes that its future success in the snowboard boot market will depend, in part, on its ability to continue to introduce innovative, well-received products, and there can be no assurance that it will do so.
Apparel Industry. The Company is a new entrant in the apparel business. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and many of the Company's competitors have significantly greater financial resources than the Company and spend substantially more on product advertising than the Company. Additionally, the apparel industry is particularly dependent on changes in fashion, which will require the Company to devote substantial resources to responding to changes in consumer preferences in a timely manner. See "--Changes in Fashion Trends."
DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN MANUFACTURERS
Approximately 85% of the Company's shoes and 100% of the Company's snowboard boots sold during fiscal 1997 were manufactured by independent suppliers located in South Korea. The Company has increased its reliance on offshore manufacturers by commencing sourcing of footwear and apparel in the Peoples Republic of China, India and Israel and anticipates that it will begin sourcing some footwear in Mexico in the near future and some apparel from other Far East countries, such as Thailand and Taiwan. The Company sources its foreign-produced products through VFEL. VFEL does not have contracts with its foreign manufacturers. There can be no assurance that VFEL will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reduction in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, inability to obtain sufficient raw materials, insufficient quality control, failure to meet production deadlines or increase in manufacturing costs. In addition, if VFEL's relationship with any of its manufacturers were to be interrupted or terminated, alternative manufacturing sources will have to be located. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that VFEL would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on terms satisfactory to it. Should a change in its suppliers become necessary, VFEL would likely experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and resulting loss of sales. In addition, VFEL utilizes international sourcing agents who assist it in selecting and overseeing third party manufacturers, ensuring quality, sourcing fabrics and monitoring quotas and other trade regulations. The loss or reduction in the level of services from such agents could significantly affect the ability of VFEL to efficiently source products from overseas, which could have a material adverse effect on VFEL's and the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppage, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, expropriation, nationalization, imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including quotas) and restrictions on the transfer of funds, environmental regulation and other changes in governmental policies. There can be no assurance that such factors will not materially adversely affect VFEL's and the Company's business, financial conditions and result of operations.
All VANS products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service. Customs information submitted by the Company is subject to review by the Customs Service. The Company is unable to predict whether additional United States Customs duties, quotas or restrictions may be imposed on the importation of its products in the future. The enactment of any such duties, quotas or restrictions could result in increases in the cost of such products generally and might adversely affect the sales or profitability of the Company.
MANAGEMENT OF GROWTH
The Company intends to pursue its growth strategy through expanded marketing and promotion efforts, more frequent introductions of products, broader lines of casual and performance footwear and snowboard boots, as well as apparel and other accessories, and increased international market penetration. To the extent the Company is successful in increasing sales of its products, a significant strain may be placed on its financial, management and other resources. The Company's future performance will depend in part on its ability to manage change in its operations and will require the Company to attract, train, manage and retain management, sales, marketing and other key personnel. In addition, the Company's ability to manage its growth effectively will require it to continue to improve its operational and financial control systems and infrastructure and management information systems. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in such efforts, and the inability of the Company's management to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
SEASONALITY AND QUARTERLY FLUCTUATION
The footwear industry is characterized by significant seasonality of net sales and results of operations. In the past two fiscal years, the Company's business has been moderately seasonal, with the largest percentage of sales realized in the first fiscal quarter (June through August), the "Back to School" months. In addition, because snowboarding is a winter sport, sales of the Company's snowboard boots have historically been strongest in the first and second fiscal quarters. As the Company increases its international sales through VFEL and experiences changes in its product mix, it expects that its quarterly results will vary from historical trends. Therefore, the results of operations of any quarter may not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter. In addition to seasonal fluctuations, the Company's operating results fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter basis as a result of holidays, weather and the timing of large shipments. The Company's gross margins also fluctuate according to product mix, cost of materials and the mix between wholesale and retail channels. Given these factors, there can be no assurance that the Company's future results will be consistent with past results or the projections of securities analysts. Historically, the Company has shipped a large portion of its products late in the quarter. Consequently, the Company may not learn of sales shortfalls until late in any particular fiscal quarter, which could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
TRADE CREDIT RISK
The Company's results of operations are affected by the timely payment for products by its customers. Although the Company's bad debt expense has not been material to date, no assurance can be given that it will not increase relative to net sales in the future or that the Company's current reserves for bad debt will be adequate. Any significant increase in the Company's bad debt expense relative to net sales could adversely impact the Company's net income and cash flow, and could adversely affect the Company's ability to pay its obligations as they become due.
ECONOMIC CYCLICALITY
Certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on the products offered by the Company, including, among other things, general business conditions, interest rates, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The Company and the footwear and apparel industry in general are highly dependent on the economic environment and discretionary levels of consumer spending that affect not only the consumer, but also distributors and retailers of the Company's products. As a result, the Company's results of operations may be materially adversely affected by downward trends in the economy of the occurrence of events that adversely affect the economy in general. In addition, a significant portion of the Company's revenues come from sales in California, including sales through the Company's retail stores. A decline in the economic conditions in California could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS OPERATIONS; RISK OF FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS
The Company has recently begun to do business directly in the United Kingdom, through a subsidiary, and in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina through subsidiaries co-owned with a third party. See "--Sales and Distribution - International Sales." The Company may experience certain risks of doing business directly in these countries including, but not limited to, managing operations effectively and efficiently from a far distance and understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs. Additionally, these entities may, from time to time, collect payments in the customers' local currencies and purchase raw materials or product in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the Company is exposed to transaction gains and losses that could result from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
NATURE OF ENDORSEMENT CONTRACTS
A key element of the Company's marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent enthusiasts sports athletes. See "--Marketing and Promotional Athletic Endorsements." These contracts typically have fixed terms, and there can be no assurance that they will be renewed or that endorsers signed by the Company will continue to be effective promoters of the Company's products. If the Company were unable in the future to secure suitable athletes to endorse its products on terms it deemed reasonable, it would be required to modify its marketing plans and could have to rely more heavily on other forms of advertising and promotion, which might not be as effective.
PRODUCT LIABILITY
The Company's snowboard boots are often used in relatively high-risk recreational settings. Consequently, the Company is exposed to the risk of product liability claims in the event that a user of such boots is injured in connection with such use. In many cases, users of the Company's boots may engage in imprudent or even reckless behavior while using such products, thereby increasing the risk of injury. The Company maintains general liability insurance (which includes product liability coverage) and excess liability insurance coverage in an amount the Company believes to be sufficient. However, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be sufficient, will continue to be available on acceptable terms, will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against the Company that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in the Company's insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTY TECHNOLOGY
The Company currently licenses certain proprietary technology and the right to produce snowboard boots for a step-in-boot binding system from Switch Manufacturing ("Switch"). Such license expires on December 31, 1997 and is non-exclusive, except that Switch may not enter into license agreements with the two snowboard boot market leaders measured by sales in 1994. The loss of the Switch license, failure by Switch to renew such license or the termination of the Company's limited exclusivity could adversely impact the Company's competitive position in the snowboard boot market. In addition, failure by Switch to receive a patent on its binding system, or patent litigation regarding such system, could significantly reduce the value to the Company of its relationship with Switch. In that regard, the Company has been advised that Switch has been sued for patent infringement by Mark Raines, Gregory Deeney and Preston Binding Company ("Preston"), a division of Ride, Inc. ("Ride"). The suit alleges that the Switch binding system infringes the patent of a binding system developed by Messrs. Raines and Deeney which was subsequently assigned to Preston. Switch has responded to the suit by filing an answer denying such allegations and a complaint against Preston and Ride seeking a declaratory judgment of patent non-infringement and damages for alleged bad faith allegations of patent infringement. The parties are currently conducting discovery in this matter.
Additionally, the Company has been advised by Switch that K2 Corporation ("K2") has notified Switch that, in its opinion, Switch's binding system infringes certain allowed claims in a U.S. patent application filed by K2. To the Company's knowledge, no litigation has commenced in this matter.
The Company has not been named as a defendant in the Preston suit or threatened with litigation in either of the foregoing matters; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be named in the Preston suit or any potential litigation which might arise between Switch and K2, and there can be no assurance as to the outcome of the litigation between Switch and Preston and Ride or any potential litigation between Switch and K2. In the event Switch is found liable in the Preston suit or in any suit that may be filed by K2, the Company may be unable to use the Switch step-in boot binding system, which could adversely impact the Company's competitive position in the snowboard boot market.
VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE
The market price of the Common Stock has fluctuated substantially since the Company's initial public offering in August 1991. There can be no assurance that the market price of the Common Stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, weather patterns that may be perceived to affect the demand for the Company's products, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, among other factors, could cause the market price of the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many smaller public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock.
ACQUISITION-RELATED RISKS
From time to time, the Company evaluates and considers the acquisition of businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, risks associated with entering markets or conducting operations with which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of an acquisition will be realized. Future acquisitions by the Company could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangibles assets, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Corporate Headquarters. The Company leases approximately 180,000 square feet of space in Santa Fe Springs, California which houses the Company's corporate headquarters and distribution operations. The initial term of the lease is 10 years and the Company has one option to extend the lease an additional 10 years. The rental structure under the lease is triple net, and the current monthly rent is $66,600. Such rent is subject to adjustment according to the C.P.I. Index throughout the term of the lease.
Vista, California Manufacturing Facility. The Company leases the 90,400 square foot Vista Facility. The term of the lease is eleven years and six months, with two consecutive five-year extension options. The rental structure under the lease is triple net. The current monthly base rent under the lease is $39,107 and is subject to adjustment according to the C.P.I. Index throughout the term of the lease.
Retail Stores. Of the Company's 84 retail stores, two are owned by the Company and the remainder are leased. Two of the leases are with the Company's founders, who are no longer affiliated with the Company. The Company does not have any franchised stores.
Lease of the Orange Facility. The Company leases the Orange Facility to two companies, one of whom currently pays the Company rent of $24,000 per month pursuant to a gross lease, and one of whom currently pays the Company rent of $19,000 per month pursuant to a triple net lease. Each of such leases has an initial term of five years, and each lessee has one option to extend the term of their lease an additional five years. The leases also provide for annual rent increases.
Sublease of City of Industry Facility. During fiscal 1997, the Company subleased the City of Industry Facility to a distribution company. Under the sublease, such company pays the Company $40,500 per month. The Company remains primarily liable under the master lease. The term of the sublease expires upon the expiration of the master lease, February 27, 2000.
The Company believes that its operating facilities and retail space are adequate for its current needs.
ITEM 3.