ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company, through its subsidiaries, operates over approximately 3,800 miles of track in 22 states, Canada and Mexico. The Company has added railroad properties to its portfolio through purchase of track and roadbed,
lease of such assets and contracts to operate properties under management agreements, depending upon the economic and strategic considerations of the divesting carriers. Of the 30 properties the Company has acquired to date, 19 are owned, four are leased, four are partially owned and partially leased, two are operated under long-term management agreements and one ceased operations in 1996. After acquiring the right to operate a railroad property, the Company must arrange for the purchase or lease of operating equipment and hire the work force necessary to operate the property.
For properties which the Company owns, the continuity of operations of purchased railroad properties has been limited to the physical transfer of these assets. The Company typically does not contractually assume any of the operations or liabilities of the divesting carriers. Quality of the Company's title to its owned rights-of-way varies. The Company's properties were acquired by its predecessors over extended periods of time and by different companies. Accordingly, the original conveyancing documents were not standardized and are subject to judicial interpretation as to the interest conveyed to the original acquiring railroad. In cases involving other railroads, deeds have sometimes been construed to create either an easement for railroad purposes or an ownership interest that terminated upon the cessation of use for railroad purposes. If the Company ceases to operate its railroad over a parcel, the Company's interest in the parcel could revert to adjacent landowners or to others holding a reversionary interest. In addition, under certain limited circumstances, three of the railroad properties may be repurchased by the original selling carriers for their original purchase prices.
For properties it leases, the Company ordinarily assumes upon the commencement date all operating and financial responsibilities including maintenance, payment of property taxes and regulatory compliance. Lease payments on three railroads leased from one major railroad are structured to ensure that the Company interchanges an agreed upon percentage of outbound carloads with the lessor railroad. Under these leases, the Company makes no payments as long as it interchanges a minimum percentage of its traffic with the lessor; therefore, the Company controls the amount that may be payable under these leases. These leases have an initial 20 year term with one or more renewal terms at the Company's option. In addition, lease payments on five properties leased from two other major railroads are subject to reduction from the base rate, down to zero, depending upon the level of traffic interchanged with the lessors. The maximum aggregate annual lease payments under these leases is approximately $1.7 million. These leases have initial lease terms of five years to 20 years and include purchase options which may be exercised by the Company after one to three years of operation. No payments have been required under any of the Company's railroad property leases, and the Company anticipates that its traffic interchange for the foreseeable future will not result in any payments being incurred under any railroad property leases. Generally, upon the termination of a lease, the Company does not have a right to the return of any capital investment made in its property leased.
Rail properties operated by the Company under management agreements typically have initial ten year terms followed by either a purchase option or one or more renewal terms at the Company's option. These operating contracts typically require that the Company assume all operating and financial responsibilities for freight operations on the property including maintenance, payment of property taxes and regulatory compliance. Payments by RailTex for the right to conduct rail operations on these properties are typically calculated as percentages of its revenues from the respective properties. Generally, as in the case of leases, upon termination of these agreements the Company does not have a right to the return of any capital investment made in the property managed.
The Company is currently seeking regulatory approval to abandon or discontinue service on certain segments of track on three railroads to achieve certain operating efficiencies. If approved, abandonment or discontinuance of service on these segments would not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations.
Railroad properties owned, leased or operated under contract by the Company's subsidiaries typically consist of the track, ties and underlying land. Real estate adjacent to the railroad rights-of-way is generally retained by the seller, and the Company's holdings of such property are not material. Similarly, the seller typically retains mineral rights and fiber optics easements in the properties acquired by the Company. Revenues derived by the Company from various rentals and easements totaled approximately $2.4 million in 1996.
The following list describes each of the railroads operated by the Company as of March 15, 1996:
The Austin & Northwestern ("AUNW") began operations on August 15, 1986 under a ten year contract with Capital Metro, an Austin, Texas area transit authority and the city of Austin. The AUNW experienced a significant decline in traffic in 1994 and 1995 and the Company did not expect significant improvement in the foreseeable future. Given this situation, the AUNW decided not to pursue further its rights unilaterally to renew the existing contract for an additional ten year period and ceased operations in May 1996. As a result, the Company recorded a Special Charge, in the second quarter of 1995, in the amount of $2,140,000 before tax and $1,389,000 after tax, or $0.15 per share, representing the write down of the unamortized value of leasehold improvements of the AUNW.
The assets of the Cape Breton & Central Nova Scotia ("CBNS") were purchased from Canadian National Railways ("CN") on October 1, 1993. The line is approximately 245 miles long, and runs from Truro to Sydney, Nova Scotia. Traffic includes coal, which both originates and terminates on the line. Inbound traffic consists of scrap iron, chemicals, and salt. Outbound traffic consists of newsprint, woodpulp, steel railroad rail, and railroad cars.
The assets of the Carolina Piedmont ("CPDR") were purchased from CSX Transportation, Inc. ("CSX") on November 2, 1990. The line is approximately 37 miles long and runs from Greenville to Laurens, South Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of plastics, resins, vegetable oils, cement, lumber, potash, glass sand, brick, newsprint and various chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of pulpwood, scrap paper and industrial engines.
The assets of the Central Oregon & Pacific Railroad ("CORP") were partially purchased and partially leased from Southern Pacific Transportation Company ("SP") on December 31, 1994. The purchased segment is approximately 336 miles long and runs from Belleview to Eugene, Oregon and from Eugene to Cordes, Oregon. Another 103 miles is leased for five years and runs from Cordes to Coquille, Oregon and from Belleview, Oregon to Black Butte, California. Outbound traffic consists of lumber and wood products, and pulp and paper products. Traffic also includes lumber and wood products which both originate and terminate on the line.
The Chesapeake & Albemarle ("C&A") was leased from Norfolk Southern Railway Company ("NS") on April 2, 1990 for a term of 20 years, with an option in favor of C&A to purchase the line during the term of the lease. The railroad is approximately 82 miles long and runs from Chesapeake, Virginia to Edenton, North Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of limestone. Outbound traffic consists of grain, lumber and scrap metal.
The assets of the Connecticut Southern ("CSOR") were purchased from Conrail on September 21, 1996. The purchased segment is approximately 23 miles long and located in Hartford, Connecticut. The CSOR operates an additional 49 miles of track from just north of New Haven, Connecticut to Springfield, Massachusetts under trackage rights. Inbound traffic consists of lumber and wood products, pulp and paper products and metal products. Outbound traffic consists of scrap paper.
The assets of the Dallas, Garland and Northeastern ("DGNO") were partially purchased and partially leased from Union Pacific Railroad Company ("UP") on February 9, 1992. The lease agreement provides for a 20 year term and grants RailTex three options to renew for additional 20 year terms. The line is approximately 92 miles long and extends from Trenton to Garland, Texas. Inbound traffic consists of limestone, food, farm products and plastics. Outbound traffic consists of food, farm products and plastics.
Substantially all of the assets of the Georgia Southwestern ("GSWR") were purchased from CSX on June 5, 1989. The GSWR currently operates over 261 miles. One segment extends from Preston, Georgia east to Rochelle, Georgia, and another segment extends from Cuthbert, Georgia, south to Bainbridge, Georgia. The GSWR also operates from Columbus to Cusseta, Georgia and from Columbus, east to Americus then south to Albany, Georgia under a combination of track lease and operating rights with Norfolk Southern. The GSWR also operates over two miles of track in Dawson, Georgia which was acquired from CSX on December 14, 1990. This
track was formerly operated by another RailTex railroad, the Georgia Great Southern ("GGS"). The Georgia & Alabama ("GAAB") was leased from NS on June 1, 1989 for a term of 20 years with an option in favor of RailTex to purchase the line during the term of the lease. The railroad is approximately 75 miles long and runs from Smithville, Georgia to White Oak, Alabama. In 1995, the operations of the GGS and GAAB were consolidated into the GSWR. Inbound traffic consists of cement, fertilizer, sugar, forest products and chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of forest products, grain, food products, lumber, auto parts, paper and scrap metal.
The assets of the Goderich-Exeter ("GEXR") were purchased from CN on April 3, 1992. The line is approximately 70 miles long and runs from Goderich to Centralia, Ontario. Inbound traffic consists of fertilizer and grain. Outbound traffic consists of salt, grain and road machinery.
The assets of the Grand Rapids Eastern ("GRE") were purchased from Central Michigan Railway Company ("CMGN") on July 10, 1993. The line is approximately 38 miles long and extends from Grand Rapids to Ionia, Michigan. Inbound traffic consists of chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of auto parts.
The stock of the Indiana & Ohio Rail Corp. ("INOH") was purchased on June 4, 1996. Through its subsidiaries the INOH operates ten line segments totaling 230 miles of track in southwestern Ohio and southeastern Indiana. Inbound traffic consists of farm products, non-metallic ores, chemicals and scrap metal. Outbound traffic consists of farm products, food, chemicals, clay, concrete, stone and scrap metal. On February 15, 1997, a subsidiary of the INOH, Indiana & Ohio Railway Company ("IORY"), purchased from GTWR the assets of the former Detroit, Toledo and Ironton ("DTI"). The DTI line is 146 miles long and is located between Flat Rock, Michigan to Cincinnati, Ohio and with trackage rights operates over 255 miles of track. Traffic consists primarily of automobiles and automobile parts which both originate and terminate on the line.
The assets of the Indiana Southern ("ISRR") were purchased from Consolidated Rail Corporation ("Conrail") on April 11, 1992. The line extends 170 miles from Indianapolis to Evansville, Indiana. In addition, ISRR operates six miles of trackage rights over Canadian Pacific ("CP") rail between Elnora and Bee Hunter, Indiana. Traffic consists primarily of coal, which both originates and terminates on the line.
The assets of the Michigan Shore ("MS") were purchased from CMGN on December 14, 1990. The line runs approximately 7 miles and is located in Muskegon, Michigan. Outbound traffic consists of sand and chemicals.
The assets of the Mid-Michigan ("MMRR") were purchased from CSX on December 19, 1987. The MMRR consists of two separate line segments. One segment is approximately 30 miles long and runs from Elmdale to Greenville, Michigan. The other segment is approximately 37 miles long and runs from Paines to Alma, Michigan. Inbound traffic consists of fertilizer, plastic and lumber. Outbound traffic consists of refrigerators, unit grain trains, liquified petroleum gas, scrap metal, auto parts and farm and food products.
The assets of the Missouri & Northern Arkansas ("M&NA") were partially purchased and partially leased from UP on December 13, 1992. The lease has a 20 year term with three 20 year renewal options. The line is approximately 527 miles long and runs from Kansas City, Missouri to Newport, Arkansas; from Fort Scott, Kansas to Clinton, Missouri, and from Carthage to Joplin, Missouri. The M&NA operates over trackage rights on the UP from Pleasant Hill to Kansas City, Missouri and from Diaz Junction to Newport, Arkansas. Inbound traffic consists of coal and food products. Outbound traffic consists of grain products, frozen food, minerals, chemicals, forest products and steel. The Branson Scenic Railroad, Inc. ("BSR"), a passenger railroad operator which is not affiliated with the Company, operates passenger excursion trains over a 44-mile segment of the M&NA. The M&NA provides the crews to the BSR and, in turn, receives a flat fee plus a specified percentage of the BSR's revenues over a base amount.
The assets of the New England Central ("NECR") were purchased from Grand Trunk Corporation ("GTC"), an affiliate of CN, on February 4, 1995. The NECR operates over approximately 319 miles of track, extending from East Alburgh, Vermont to New London, Connecticut, plus an additional approximately six miles over which it operates under trackage rights agreements. Inbound traffic consists primarily of paper, lumber, copper and wood products. A significant portion of the inbound lumber and paper products is received by transload facilities
located on the NECR. These facilities transload the commodities to truck for further distribution throughout the New England area and beyond. The majority of these transload operations are affiliated with the CN. Outbound traffic consists primarily of corrugated paper and coal fly ash.
The assets of the New Orleans Lower Coast ("NOLR") were purchased from UP on March 17, 1991. The line is approximately 24 miles long and runs from Gouldsboro to Myrtle Grove, Louisiana. Inbound traffic consists of unit grain trains. Outbound traffic consists of petroleum products.
The assets of the North Carolina & Virginia ("NCVA") were purchased from CSX on November 1, 1987. The line is approximately 54 miles long and runs from Boykins, Virginia, south to Kelford, North Carolina, then northeast to Tunis, North Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of grain and chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of woodchips, lumber, particle board, peanuts and peanut hulls.
The assets of the Northeast Kansas & Missouri ("NEKM") were purchased from UP on February 26, 1990. The railroad is approximately 114 miles long and extends west from St. Joseph, Missouri to Upland, Kansas. Inbound traffic consists of fertilizers. Outbound traffic consists of grain and food products.
The assets of the Ontario L'Orignal ("OLOR") were purchased from CN effective November 2, 1996. The line is approximately 26 miles long and is located in eastern Ontario, Canada. Traffic consists primarily of scrap iron and steel products, which both originate and terminate on the line.
The assets of the Pittsburgh Industrial ("PIRR") were purchased from Conrail on December 7, 1996. The line is approximately 42 miles long and is located in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Inbound traffic consists of scrap metal, plastics, lubricating oils, chemicals and food products. Outbound traffic consists of scrap metal, plastics and chemicals.
The Salt Lake City Southern ("SLCS") began operating over property owned by the Utah Transit Authority ("UTA") on April 19, 1993. The SLCS operates the property under a freight easement granted by UP, the former owner of the line. The easement may be repurchased by UP for a nominal amount at any time after October 30, 1997. The line is approximately 25 miles long and extends from Salt Lake City to Mount, Utah. Inbound traffic consists of cement, grain, lumber and coal.
The San Diego & Imperial Valley ("SDIV") began operations on October 15, 1984 under a ten year contract with the San Diego Metropolitan Transit Development Board ("MTDB") in the San Diego, California area. Under the terms of this contract, the SDIV provides freight service over trackage owned by a subsidiary of MTDB and over which MTDB provides passenger service. In 1994, the SDIV exercised an option to renew the contract until 2004. Additionally, this contract has three remaining ten year renewal options. SDIV also has a trackage rights agreement with Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico Region Pacifico ("Ferrocarriles"). This agreement has a ten year term, but may be terminated by Ferrocarriles with one year's notice in the event of a change in Mexican law or presidential decree. The SDIV is approximately 163 miles long and extends from San Diego, California through Tijuana and Tecate, Mexico, to Plaster City, California. Inbound traffic consists of liquefied petroleum gas, lumber, beverages, paper, plastics, lard and grain. Outbound traffic consists of scrap metal and scrap paper.
The assets of the South Carolina Central ("SCC") were purchased from CSX on December 1, 1987. The railroad is composed of two line segments. One is approximately 46 miles long and runs from Florence to Bishopville, South Carolina. The other is approximately 12 miles long and runs from Cheraw to Society Hill, South Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of scrap metal, chemicals, coal, scrap paper and corn sweeteners. Outbound traffic consists of finished steel and paper.
The assets of the Texas-New Mexico ("TNMR") were purchased from UP on September 18, 1989. The line is approximately 107 miles long and runs from Monahans, Texas north to Lovington, New Mexico. Outbound traffic consists of liquefied petroleum gas, chemicals, farm products, scrap metal and minerals.
The Texas Northeastern ("TNER") was leased from UP effective October 22, 1990 under a 20 year lease with three 20 year options to renew. The line is approximately 107 miles long and runs from Texarkana to New Boston, Texas, from Paris, Texas to Sherman, Texas, from Sherman, Texas north to Denison, Texas and from Bells, Texas south to Trenton, Texas. Inbound traffic consists of food, paper products and edible oils. Outbound traffic consists of grain.
The Virginia Southern ("VSRR") was leased from NS on November 28, 1988 under a 20 year lease agreement. The lease grants VSRR a right to purchase substantially all of the line during the term of the lease for its net liquidation value. The line is approximately 75 miles long and extends from Burkeville, Virginia to Oxford, North Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of coal, wool, fructose and chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of pulpwood and woodchips.
In August 1995, the Company entered into a management agreement with Tengizchevroil ("TCO"), a limited partnership of Chevron Overseas Company and Tengizmunaygaz, to provide on-site technical and operating management of the TCO railroad. The railroad runs from Kulsary, Kazakhstan to the TCO plant complex at Tengiz, Kazakhstan, a distance of approximately 104 kilometers or 62 miles. The initial term of the agreement is for two years with year-to-year extensions after the initial term. Currently, the Company is in the process of renegotiating the contract.
TRACK
RailTex conducted its freight operations on 3,793 miles of track as of February 28, 1997. Railroads owned by the Company represented 2,394 miles of track. Railroads operated by the Company pursuant to lease arrangements from other railroads comprised 901 miles of track. Railroads operated by the Company under long-term operating contracts with the owners accounted for an additional 139 miles of track. In addition, the Company operated on 359 miles of track owned by other railroads pursuant to trackage rights agreements.
Because of the relatively short length of the typical RailTex railroad and the stop-and-start nature of its switching activity, most of the Company's freight operations are conducted at speeds of 25 miles per hour or less. Of the 3,793 miles of track operated by the Company on February 28, 1997, 7.0% was in FRA Class IV condition, permitting speeds up to 60 miles per hour, 28.0% was in FRA Class III condition, permitting speeds up to 40 miles per hour for freight trains. An additional 36.0% was in FRA Class II condition, permitting speeds up to 25 miles per hour. Another 19.0% was in FRA Class I or FRA Excepted Class I condition, which permits maximum speeds of ten miles per hour. The remaining 10.0% was located in Mexico or Canada and not subject to FRA inspection and regulation. Of the U.S. track owned by RailTex, 79.0% was rated FRA Class II or higher and 21.0% was rated FRA Class I or lower at February 28, 1997.
TRACK CONDITION
- -------------- (1) Includes trackage rights associated with owned or leased railroad properties.
The Company's track maintenance strategy is to maintain its track, ties, roadbed and structures consistent with safe operations and with the volume of traffic transported over its lines. RailTex believes its capital expenditure requirements for track maintenance are lower than those incurred by the major rail carriers which previously operated most of the Company's railroad properties because such major rail carriers generally operated
at higher speeds over this track and, therefore, required greater levels of track maintenance. Also, the labor costs incurred by major railroads for track maintenance are typically higher than RailTex's labor costs.
Safety-related maintenance needs receive the Company's highest maintenance priority, followed by high density track segments on which the highest volume of traffic is transported. Low-density segments, sidings, and lines for which higher transit speeds are not essential to providing timely and effective customer service are maintained at lower FRA class conditions. Track maintenance is performed by each railroad's operating personnel with local track contractors supplementing this effort on an as-needed basis. In connection with the lease of one of its railroad properties, the Company has committed to upgrade approximately 107 miles, net of abandonments, of track to Class II standards by October 1998; however, the Company is negotiating with the lessor to extend this period. The Company now estimates the cost of this upgrade to be approximately $4.0 million to $5.0 million.
EQUIPMENT
At February 28, 1997, the Company's rolling stock consisted of 234 locomotives and 3,805 freight cars, some of which it owned and some of which were leased from others. All of the leased locomotives and freight cars were provided under short-term operating lease agreements or per diem sharing agreements. The following table summarizes the composition of the Company's equipment fleet at February 28, 1997:
LOCOMOTIVES
HORSEPOWER/UNIT OWNED LEASED TOTAL ----- ------ ----- 1500 to 3000 ........................ 220 8 228 1500 and under ...................... 6 - 6 ----- ------ ----- Total .......................... 226 8 234 ===== ====== =====
The average age of the Company's locomotive fleet is 32 years. Of the 226 locomotives owned by RailTex, most have been rebuilt, updated or overhauled. Calculating locomotive age from the date of rebuild, the Company's locomotives have an average age of 26 years. The Company's availability rate with respect to its locomotive fleet was 90.0% in 1996.
FREIGHT CARS PER DIEM SHARING TYPE OWNED LEASED ARRANGEMENTS TOTAL --- ----- ----- ----- Hopper cars ...................... 94 793 254 1,141 Flat cars ........................ 105 43 455 603 Gondola cars ..................... -- 55 725 780 Box cars ......................... 24 110 1,137 1,271 Refrigerated box cars ............ -- 10 -- 10 --- ----- ----- ----- Total ....................... 223 1,011 2,571 3,805 === ===== ===== =====
The Company has entered into per diem sharing arrangements covering 2,571 cars as of February 28, 1997. Under these arrangements, the Company agrees to place the freight cars on its railroads for prospective loading by customers and, in exchange, the Company does not incur rent on these cars when these cars are on one of its railroads. In addition, car owners pay the Company a portion of the rents earned when the freight cars are on railroads other than the Company's.
ITEM 3.