ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company, through its subsidiaries, operates over 3,900 miles of track in 22 states in the U.S., two provinces in Canada and Baja, Mexico. The Company has added railroad properties to its portfolio through purchase of track and roadbed, lease of such assets, contracts to operate properties under management agreements and purchase of railroad company common stock, depending upon the economic and strategic considerations of the divesting carriers. Of the 30 properties the Company has acquired to date, 19 are owned, four are leased, four are partially owned and partially leased, two are operated under long-term management agreements and one ceased operations in 1996. After acquiring the right to operate a railroad property, the Company must arrange for the purchase or lease of operating equipment and hire the work force necessary to operate the property.
For properties which the Company owns, the continuity of operations of purchased railroad properties has been limited to the physical transfer of these assets. The Company typically does not contractually assume any of the operations or liabilities of the divesting carriers. Quality of the Company's title to its owned rights-of-way varies. The Company's properties were acquired by its predecessors over extended periods of time and by different companies. Accordingly, the original conveyancing documents were not standardized and are subject to judicial interpretation as to the interest conveyed to the original acquiring railroad. In cases involving other railroads, deeds have sometimes been construed to create either an easement for railroad purposes or an ownership interest that terminated upon the cessation of use for railroad purposes. If the Company ceases to operate its railroad over a parcel, the Company's interest in the parcel could revert to adjacent landowners or to others holding a reversionary interest. Under certain limited circumstances, two of the railroad properties may be repurchased by the original selling carriers for their original purchase prices. In addition, the purchase price of one of the Company's railroads is subject to reimbursement up to $5 million if certain levels of carloadings are not achieved within a specified time period, as detailed in the purchase and sale agreement.
For properties it leases, the Company ordinarily assumes upon the commencement date all operating and financial responsibilities including maintenance, payment of property taxes and regulatory compliance. Lease payments on three railroads leased from one major railroad are structured to ensure that the Company interchanges an agreed upon percentage of outbound carloads with the lessor railroad. Under these leases, the Company makes no payments as long as it interchanges a minimum percentage of its traffic with the lessor; therefore, the Company controls the amount that may be payable under these leases. These leases have an initial 20 year term with one or more renewal terms at the Company's option. In addition, lease payments on five properties leased from two other major railroads are subject to reduction from the base rate, down to zero, depending upon the level of traffic interchanged with the lessors. The maximum aggregate annual base rate lease payments under these leases is approximately $1.7 million. These leases have initial lease terms of five years to 20 years and include purchase options which may be exercised by the Company after one to three years of operation. No payments have been required under any of the Company's railroad property leases, and the Company anticipates that its traffic interchange for the foreseeable future will not result in any payments being incurred under any railroad property leases. Generally, upon the termination of a lease, the Company does not have a right to the return of any capital investment made in its property leased.
Rail properties operated by the Company under management agreements typically have initial ten year terms followed by either a purchase option or one or more renewal terms at the Company's option. These operating contracts typically require that the Company assume all operating and financial responsibilities for freight operations on the property including maintenance, payment of property taxes and regulatory compliance. Payments by RailTex for the right to conduct rail operations on these properties are typically calculated as percentages of its revenues from the respective properties. Generally, as in the case of leases, upon termination of these agreements the Company does not have a right to the return of any capital investment made in the property managed.
Railroad properties owned, leased or operated under contract by the Company's subsidiaries typically consist of the track, ties and underlying land. Real estate adjacent to the railroad rights-of-way is generally retained by the seller, and the Company's holdings of such property is not significant. Similarly, the seller typically retains mineral rights and fiber optics easements in the properties acquired by the Company. Revenues derived by the Company from various rentals and easements totaled approximately $3.0 million in 1997.
In order to improve its overall profitability and financial returns, the Company has performed an analysis of its portfolio railroad properties with the objective of identifying those properties which do not meet the Company's overall financial objectives and which do not offer significant revenue or operating expansion opportunities. The Company is currently pursuing its alternatives with respect to these properties, which may include possible sale of the railroad property.
The following list describes each of the railroads operated by the Company as of February 28, 1998:
The assets of the Cape Breton & Central Nova Scotia ("CBNS") were purchased from CN on October 1, 1993. The line is approximately 245 miles long, and runs from Truro to Sydney, Nova Scotia. Traffic includes coal, which both originates and terminates on the line. Inbound traffic consists of scrap iron, chemicals, and salt. Outbound traffic consists of newsprint, woodpulp, steel railroad rail, and railroad cars.
The assets of the Carolina Piedmont ("CPDR") were purchased from CSX Transportation, Inc. ("CSX") on November 2, 1990. The line is approximately 37 miles long and runs from Greenville to Laurens, South Carolina. On April 28, 1997, the assets of the Greenville and Northern Railway were purchased. The line is approximately 12 miles long and runs from Travelers Rest to Greenville, South Carolina and is operated as part of the Carolina Piedmont. Inbound traffic consists of plastics, resins, vegetable oils, cement, lumber, potash, glass sand, brick, newsprint and various chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of pulpwood, scrap paper and industrial engines.
The assets of the Central Oregon & Pacific ("CORP") were partially purchased and partially leased from Southern Pacific Transportation Company ("SP") on December 31, 1994. SP was subsequently acquired by Union Pacific Corporation ("UP").The purchased segment is approximately 336 miles long and runs from Belleview to Eugene, Oregon and from Eugene to Cordes, Oregon. Another 105 miles is leased for five years and runs from Cordes to Coquille, Oregon and from Belleview, Oregon to Black Butte, California. The CORP operates an additional 8 miles of track from Danebo to Springfield Jct., Oregon under trackage rights. Outbound traffic consists of lumber and wood products, and pulp and paper products. Traffic also includes lumber and wood products which both originate and terminate on the line.
The Chesapeake & Albemarle ("C&A") was leased from Norfolk Southern Railway Company ("NS") on April 2, 1990 for a term of 20 years, with an option in favor of C&A to purchase the line during the term of the lease. The railroad is approximately 82 miles long and runs from Chesapeake, Virginia to Edenton, North Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of limestone and lumber. Outbound traffic consists of grain, lumber and scrap metal.
The assets of the Connecticut Southern ("CSOR") were purchased from Consolidated Rail Corporation ("Conrail") on September 21, 1996. The purchased segment is approximately 23 miles long and is located in Hartford, Connecticut. The CSOR operates an additional 55 miles of track from just north of New Haven, Connecticut to Springfield, Massachusetts under a trackage rights agreement with Amtrack. Inbound traffic consists of lumber and wood products, pulp and paper products and metal products. Outbound traffic consists of scrap paper.
The assets of the Dallas, Garland and Northeastern ("DGNO") were partially purchased and partially leased from UP on February 9, 1992. The lease agreement provides for a 20 year term and grants RailTex three options to renew for additional 20 year terms. The line is approximately 92 miles long and extends from Trenton to Garland, Texas. Inbound traffic consists of limestone, food, farm products and plastics. Outbound traffic consists of food, farm products and plastics.
Substantially all of the assets of the Georgia Southwestern ("GSWR") were purchased from CSX on June 5, 1989. In 1995, the operations of the Georgia Great Southern ("GGS") and the Georgia and Alabama ("GAAB") were consolidated into the GSWR. The GSWR currently operates, in total, over 357 miles. One segment extends from Preston east to Rochelle, Georgia, and another segment extends from Cuthbert south to Bainbridge, Georgia. The GSWR also operates from Columbus to Cusseta, Georgia and from Columbus, east to Americus then south to Albany, Georgia under a combination of track lease and operating rights with NS and from Bainbridge to Saffold, Georgia under trackage rights with CSX including two miles of track in Dawson, Georgia which was acquired by GGS from CSX on December 14, 1990. The GAAB was leased from NS on June 1, 1989 for a term of 20 years with an option in favor of RailTex to purchase the line during the term of the lease. The railroad runs from Smithville, Georgia to White Oak, Alabama. Inbound traffic consists of cement, fertilizer, sugar, forest products and chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of forest products, grain, food products, lumber, auto parts, paper and scrap metal.
The assets of the Goderich-Exeter ("GEXR") were purchased from CN on April 3, 1992. The line is approximately 70 miles long and runs from Goderich to Centralia, Ontario and from Goderich to Stratford, Ontario. Inbound traffic consists of fertilizer and grain. Outbound traffic consists of salt, grain and road machinery.
The assets of the Grand Rapids Eastern ("GRE") were purchased from Central Michigan Railway Company ("CMGN") on July 10, 1993. The line is approximately 45 miles long and extends from Marne to Ionia, Michigan. Inbound traffic consists of chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of auto parts.
The stock of the Indiana & Ohio Rail Corp. ("INOH") was purchased on June 4, 1996. On February 15, 1997, a subsidiary of the INOH, purchased from Grand Trunk Western Railroad, Inc. the assets of the former Detroit, Toledo and Ironton ("DTI"). Together, the INOH line and the DTI line operate 576 miles of track under a combination of owned track, lease and operating rights in southeastern Indiana and western Ohio extending
north to Detroit, Michigan. Beginning January 1, 1998, the operations of the former INOH and DTI were restructured to operate as the Indiana and Ohio ("IORY") and the Indiana and Ohio Central ("IORC"). Inbound traffic consists of automobiles and automobile parts, farm products, non-metallic ores, chemicals and scrap metal. Outbound traffic consists of automobiles and automobile parts, farm products, food, chemicals, clay, concrete, stone and scrap metal.
The assets of the Indiana Southern ("ISRR") were purchased from Conrail on April 11, 1992. The line extends 170 miles from Indianapolis to Evansville, Indiana. In addition, ISRR operates six miles of trackage rights over Canadian Pacific Railway Company ("CP") rail between Elnora and Bee Hunter, Indiana. Traffic consists primarily of coal, which both originates and terminates on the line.
The assets of the Michigan Shore ("MS") were purchased from CMGN on December 14, 1990. The line runs approximately 7 miles and is located in Muskegon, Michigan. Outbound traffic consists of sand and chemicals.
The assets of the Mid-Michigan ("MMRR") were purchased from CSX on December 19, 1987. The MMRR consists of two separate line segments. One segment is approximately 30 miles long and runs from Elmdale to Greenville, Michigan. The other segment is approximately 37 miles long and runs from Paines to Alma, Michigan. Inbound traffic consists of fertilizer, plastic and lumber. Outbound traffic consists of refrigerators, unit grain trains, liquified petroleum gas, scrap metal, auto parts and farm and food products.
The assets of the Missouri & Northern Arkansas ("M&NA") were partially purchased and partially leased from UP on December 13, 1992. The lease has a 20 year term with three 20 year renewal options. The line is approximately 497 miles long and runs from Kansas City, Missouri to Newport, Arkansas; from Fort Scott, Kansas to Clinton, Missouri, from Carthage to Joplin, Missouri and from Springfield to Wallis, Missouri. The M&NA operates over trackage rights on the UP from Pleasant Hill to Kansas City, Missouri and from Diaz Junction to Newport, Arkansas. Inbound traffic consists of coal and food products. Outbound traffic consists of grain products, frozen food, minerals, chemicals, forest products and steel. The Branson Scenic Railroad, Inc. ("BSR"), a passenger railroad operator which is not affiliated with the Company, operates passenger excursion trains over a 44-mile segment of the M&NA. The M&NA provides the crews to the BSR and, in turn, receives a flat fee plus a specified percentage of the BSR's revenues over a base amount. In addition, the White River Scenic Railroad, a passenger railroad operator which is not affiliated with the Company, operates passenger excursion trains using their own crews over certain segments of the M&NA and, in turn the M&NA receives a flat fee.
The assets of the New England Central ("NECR") were purchased from Grand Trunk Corporation ("GTC"), an affiliate of CN, on February 4, 1995. The NECR operates over approximately 330 miles of track, extending from East Alburg, Vermont to New London, Connecticut. In addition, Amtrack provides passenger service over track extending from St Albans, Vermont and Palmer, Massachusetts under a trackage rights contract with the NECR. Inbound traffic consists primarily of paper, lumber, copper and wood products. A significant portion of the inbound lumber and paper products is received by transload facilities located on the NECR. These facilities transload the commodities to truck for further distribution throughout the New England area and beyond. The majority of these transload operations are affiliated with the CN. Outbound traffic consists primarily of corrugated paper and coal fly ash.
The assets of the New Orleans Lower Coast ("NOLR") were purchased from UP on March 17, 1991. The line is approximately 24 miles long and runs from Gouldsboro to Myrtle Grove, Louisiana. Inbound traffic consists of unit grain trains and petroleum products. Outbound traffic consists of petroleum products.
The assets of the North Carolina & Virginia ("NCVA") were purchased from CSX on November 1, 1987. The line is approximately 53 miles long and runs from Boykins, Virginia, south to Kelford, North Carolina, then northeast to Tunis, North Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of grain and chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of woodchips, lumber, particle board, peanuts and peanut hulls.
The assets of the Northeast Kansas & Missouri ("NEKM") were purchased from UP on February 26, 1990. The railroad is approximately 125 miles long and extends west from St. Joseph, Missouri to Upland, Kansas. Inbound traffic consists of fertilizers. Outbound traffic consists of grain and food products.
The assets of the Ontario L'Orignal ("OLOR") were purchased from CN effective November 2, 1996. The line is approximately 26 miles long and is located in eastern Ontario, Canada. Traffic consists primarily of scrap iron and steel products, which both originate and terminate on the line.
The assets of the Pittsburgh Industrial ("PIRR") were purchased from Conrail on December 7, 1996. The line is approximately 42 miles long and is located in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. Inbound traffic consists of scrap metal, plastics, lubricating oils, chemicals and food products. Outbound traffic consists of scrap metal, plastics and chemicals.
The Salt Lake City Southern ("SLCS") began operating over property owned by the Utah Transit Authority ("UTA") on April 19, 1993. The SLCS operates the property under a freight easement granted by UP, the former owner of the line. The easement may be repurchased by UP for a nominal amount at any time after October 30, 1997. The line is approximately 25 miles long and extends from Salt Lake City to Mount, Utah. Inbound traffic consists of cement, grain, lumber and coal.
The San Diego & Imperial Valley ("SDIV") began operations on October 15, 1984 under a ten year contract with the San Diego Metropolitan Transit Development Board ("MTDB") in the San Diego, California area. Under the terms of this contract, the SDIV provides freight service over trackage owned by a subsidiary of MTDB and over which MTDB provides passenger service. In 1994, the SDIV exercised an option to renew the contract until 2004. Additionally, this contract has three remaining ten year renewal options. SDIV also has a trackage rights agreement with Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico Region Pacifico ("Ferrocarriles") to operate between Tijuana and Tecate, Mexico. This is an open agreement that may be cancelled at any time by either party. The SDIV has authority to operate 153 miles of track that and extends from San Diego, California through Tijuana and Tecate, Mexico, to Plaster City, California. Inbound traffic consists of liquified petroleum gas, lumber, beverages, paper, plastics, lard and grain. Outbound traffic consists of scrap metal and scrap paper.
The assets of the South Carolina Central ("SCC") were purchased from CSX on December 1, 1987. The railroad is composed of two line segments. One is approximately 46 miles long and runs from Florence to Bishopville, South Carolina. The other is approximately 12 miles long and runs from Cheraw to Society Hill, South Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of scrap metal, chemicals, coal, scrap paper and corn sweeteners. Outbound traffic consists of finished steel and paper.
The assets of the Texas-New Mexico ("TNMR") were purchased from UP on September 18, 1989. The line is approximately 107 miles long and runs from Monahans, Texas north to Lovington, New Mexico. Outbound traffic consists of liquified petroleum gas, chemicals, farm products, scrap metal and minerals.
The Texas Northeastern ("TNER") was leased from UP effective October 22, 1990 under a 20 year lease with three 20 year options to renew. The line is approximately 107 miles long and runs from Texarkana to New Boston, Texas, from Paris to Sherman, Texas, from Sherman north to Denison, Texas and from Bells south to Trenton, Texas where it connects with the DGNO. Inbound traffic consists of food, paper products and edible oils. Outbound traffic consists of grain.
The Virginia Southern ("VSRR") was leased from NS on November 28, 1988 under a 20 year lease agreement. The lease grants VSRR a right to purchase substantially all of the line during the term of the lease for its net liquidation value. The line is approximately 75 miles long and extends from Burkeville, Virginia to Oxford, North Carolina. Inbound traffic consists of coal, wool, fructose and chemicals. Outbound traffic consists of pulpwood and woodchips.
In August 1995, the Company entered into a management agreement with Tengizchevroil ("TCO"), a limited partnership of Chevron Overseas Company and Tengizmunaygaz, to provide on-site technical and operating management of the TCO railroad. The railroad runs from Kulsary, Kazakhstan to the TCO plant complex at Tengiz, Kazakhstan, a distance of approximately 104 kilometers or 62 miles. The initial term of the agreement was for two years with year-to-year extensions after the initial term. Currently, the Company is operating under the terms of the initial two year agreement and is in the process of renegotiating the contract.
TRACK
RailTex conducted its freight operations on 3,915 miles of track as of February 28, 1998, including 2,564 miles of owned track, 782 miles of leased track, and 178 miles of track operated under long-term operating contracts. In addition, the Company operated on 391 miles of track owned by other railroads pursuant to trackage rights agreements.
Because of the relatively short length of the typical RailTex railroad and the stop-and-start nature of its switching activity, the majority of the Company's freight operations are conducted at speeds of 25 miles per hour or less. Of the track operated by RailTex, 70.0% was rated FRA Class II or higher and 20.0% was rated FRA Class I or lower at February 28, 1998. The remaining 10.0% was located in Mexico or Canada and not subject to FRA inspection and regulation.
TRACK CONDITION
- -------------------- (1) Includes trackage rights associated with owned or leased railroad properties.
The Company's track maintenance strategy is to maintain its track, ties, roadbed and structures consistent with safe operations and with the volume of traffic transported over its lines. The Company believes its capital expenditure requirements for track maintenance are lower than those incurred by the major rail carriers which previously operated most of the Company's railroad properties because such major rail carriers generally operated at higher speeds over this track and, therefore, required greater levels of track maintenance. Also, the labor costs incurred by major railroads for track maintenance are typically higher than the Company's labor costs.
Safety-related maintenance needs receive the Company's highest maintenance priority, followed by high density track segments on which the highest volume of traffic is transported. Low-density segments, sidings, and lines for which higher transit speeds are not essential to providing timely and effective customer service are maintained at lower FRA class conditions. Track maintenance is performed by each railroad's operating personnel with local track contractors supplementing this effort on an as-needed basis. In connection with the lease of one of its railroad properties, the Company has committed to upgrade approximately 107 miles, net of abandonments, of track to Class II standards by October 1998; however, the Company is negotiating with the lessor to extend this period. The Company now estimates the cost of this upgrade to be approximately $2.0 million, net of state funding.
EQUIPMENT
At February 28, 1998, the Company's rolling stock consisted of 266 locomotives and 3,416 freight cars, some of which it owned and some of which were leased from others. All of the leased locomotives and freight cars were provided under short-term operating lease agreements or per diem sharing agreements. The following table summarizes the composition of the Company's equipment fleet at February 28, 1998:
LOCOMOTIVES
HORSEPOWER/UNIT OWNED LEASED TOTAL --------------- ----- ------ ----- 1500 to 3000......................... 223 35 258 1499 and under....................... 8 -- 8 ----- ---- ----- Total........................... 231 35 266 ===== ==== =====
The average age of the Company's locomotive fleet is 32 years. Of the 231 locomotives owned by RailTex, most have been rebuilt, updated or overhauled. Calculating locomotive age from the date of rebuild, the Company's locomotives have an average age of 26 years. The Company's availability rate with respect to its locomotive fleet was 90.0% in 1997.
FREIGHT CARS
The Company has entered into per diem sharing arrangements covering 2,303 cars as of February 28, 1998. Under these arrangements, the Company agrees to place the freight cars on its railroads for prospective loading by customers and, in exchange, the Company does not incur rent on these cars when these cars are on one of its railroads. In addition, car owners pay the Company a portion of the rents earned when the freight cars are on railroads other than the Company's.
ITEM 3.