Item 2 - Properties
General
During 2015, we had 602.7 MW of installed capacity consisting of 18 generating units at five power plants. These included 385.0 MW of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 140.1 MW at SPP in Anchorage, which we jointly own with ML&P; 46.7 MW at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 MW at the Cooper Lake facility, which is on the Kenai Peninsula. We also own rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and ML&P. In April of 2015, Beluga Unit 8 was retired representing 53.0 MW of capacity. In August of 2015, IGT Unit 3 was retired representing 18.5 MW of capacity. Therefore, we had 531.2 MW of installed capacity consisting of 16 generating units at December 31, 2015.
In addition to our own generation, we purchased power from the 120 MW Bradley Lake Hydroelectric Project, which is owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA), operated by HEA and dispatched by Chugach, and MEA’s newly constructed 171 MW EGS, which is also dispatched by Chugach. In 2015, we also purchased power from FIW.
The Beluga, IGT and SPP facilities are all fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT and SPP in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga, IGT and SPP. Our principal generation assets are in two plants, Beluga and SPP. With SPP in operation, the Beluga units are occasionally used for peaking, but are primarily used as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with scheduled inspections and periodic upgrades. Beluga Unit 6 had a major inspection in 2010, in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished parts, and since has had annual inspections through 2015. During the 2012 annual inspection, combustion components nearing end of life were also replaced. Beluga Unit 7 had a major inspection in 2012, in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished parts, and since has had annual inspections through 2015. Beluga Unit 8, a steam turbine generator, also had a major inspection in 2012, and had annual inspections through 2014. In April of 2015, Beluga Unit 8 was retired.
On February 1, 2013, SPP began commercial operation, furnishing 200.2 MW of capacity provided by 4 generating units. Chugach owns and takes approximately 70% of this plant’s output and ML&P owns and takes the remaining 30%. Chugach proportionately accounts for its ownership in SPP. Our principal generation units at SPP are Units 10, 11, 12, and 13. Throughout 2015 and 2014, SPP units received preventative maintenance inspections consistent with original equipment manufacturer (OEM) recommendations. In each year, the gas turbine generators of Units 11, 12, and 13 received two internal combustion system inspections each and one full package inspection. The Unit 12 gas turbine was replaced with a new spare gas turbine. The removed gas turbine will be prepared for another full cycle of operation by the OEM and Chugach technicians, under our contractual service agreement. The turbine will then be staged at the power plant awaiting the next engine rotation. All three steam-generating boilers were internally inspected as well as hydrotested in accordance with OEM recommendations.
			
		
The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on federal lands. Chugach operates and maintains the Cooper Lake project pursuant to a 50-year license granted to us by FERC in August of 2007. As part of the relicensing process, there was a negotiated Relicensing Settlement Agreement (RSA) entered into in August of 2005. A requirement of the RSA required Chugach to establish a flow regime in Cooper Creek below the Cooper Lake Dam. This project included a Stetson Creek Diversion (Dam), Pipeline (Conveyance System) and Cooper Lake Outlet Works. The project was designed to replace colder water flowing into the Cooper Creek drainage with warmer Cooper Lake water. Project construction began in 2013 and was completed in July of 2015.
The two generating units at Cooper Lake, Units 1 and 2, have a combined capacity of 19.2 MW. Both units were taken out of service for annual maintenance in October of 2015 and 2014. The 2014 annual maintenance included generator testing and inspection by the OEM.
The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is located on federal land pursuant to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October of 1997. The facility is jointly owned by Chugach (30%), MEA (17%) and ML&P (53%). The facility is operated by Chugach and maintained jointly by Chugach and ML&P. Chugach owns rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units.
			
		
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2015, percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
			
		
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2015, our transmission and distribution assets included 42 substations and 407 miles of transmission lines, which included Chugach’s share of the Eklutna transmission line, 897 miles of overhead distribution lines and 809 miles of underground distribution line. We own the land on which 24 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30% of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Most of Chugach’s generation sites and many of its substation sites are on Chugach-owned lands. The rights for the sites not on Chugach-owned lands are as follows: the Postmark and Point Woronzof Substations, and the East Terminal Site (N/S runway) are under rights from the State Department of Transportation and Public Facilities/Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport; the East Terminal Site (6 mile) is under rights from the Matanuska-Susitna Borough; the West Terminal Site is under rights from the Army/Air Force; the University Substation is on State land under rights from the Federal Bureau of Land Management; the Hope and Daves Creek Substations are under rights from the State; the Portage Substation is under rights from the Alaska Railroad Corporation (ARRC); the Summit Lake Substation is on State land under rights from the United States Forest Service; the Dowling and Raspberry Substations are on Municipality of Anchorage land under rights from the State; and, the Indian Substation will be under rights from the Chugach State Park upon approval. The Cooper Lake Power Plant, Quartz Creek Substation, and the 69kV transmission line between them are operated under a federal license. Most of Chugach’s transmission, sub-transmission and distribution lines are either on public lands under rights from the federal, state, municipal, borough or ARRC, or on private lands via easements.
Title
On January 20, 2011, Chugach and the indenture trustee entered into the Indenture, granting a lien on substantially all of Chugach’s assets to secure Chugach’s long-term debt. Assets that are generally not subject to the lien of the Indenture include cash (other than cash deposited with the indenture trustee); instruments and securities; patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property; vehicles and other movable equipment; inventory and consumable materials and supplies; office furniture, equipment and supplies; computer equipment and software; office leases; other leasehold interests for an original term of less than five years; contracts (other than power sales agreements with members having an original term exceeding three years, certain contracts specifically identified in the Indenture, and other contracts relating to the ownership, operation or maintenance of generation, transmission or distribution facilities); non-assignable permits, licenses and other contract rights; timber and minerals separated from land; electricity, gas, steam, water and other products generated, produced or purchased; other property in which a security interest cannot legally be perfected by the filing of a Uniform Commercial Code financing statement, and certain parcels of real property specifically excepted from the lien of the Indenture. The lien of the Indenture may be subject to various permitted encumbrances that include matters existing on the date of the Indenture or the date on which property is later acquired; reservations in United States patents; non-delinquent or contested taxes, assessments and contractors’ liens; and various leases, rights-of-way, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, reservations, licenses and permits that do not materially impair Chugach’s use of the mortgaged property in the conduct of Chugach’s business.
			
		
Many of Chugach’s properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake. We are a participant in the Bradley Lake Hydroelectric Project, which is a 120 MW rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled below 90 MW to minimize losses and ensure system stability. We have a 30.4% (27.4 MW as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project’s output, and currently take Seward’s share which we net bill to them, for a total of 31.4% of the project’s capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4% of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166.0 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (ML&P, HEA and MEA (through AEG&T and AEEC), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like-percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). By contract, we also provide transmission and related services to all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The term of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is 50 years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September of 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is the longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive forty-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel and purchased power adjustment process. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $21.6 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant’s share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant’s percentage share is increased by more than 25%. Upon default, Chugach could be faced with annual expenditures of approximately $5.7 million as a result of Chugach’s Bradley Lake take-or-pay obligations.
The State of Alaska provided an initial grant for work on a project to divert water from Battle Creek into Bradley Lake. The project is being managed by the Alaska Energy Authority. Diverting a portion of Battle Creek into Bradley Lake is currently estimated to increase annual energy output by 37,000 MWh. Chugach would be entitled to 30.4% of the additional energy produced.
			
		
Eklutna. Along with two other utilities, Chugach purchased the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the Federal Government in 1997. Ownership was transferred from the DOE’s Alaska Power Administration jointly to Chugach (30%), MEA (17%) and ML&P (53%). Through April 30, 2015, the power MEA purchased from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project was pooled with Chugach’s purchases and sold back to MEA to be used to meet MEA’s overall power requirements.
Fuel Supply
In 2015, 86% of our power was generated from natural gas. Total gas purchased in 2015 was approximately 14 Bcf. In 2015, our sources of natural gas for firm sales were primarily divided among contracts with two major oil and gas companies. All of the production came from Cook Inlet, Alaska. ConocoPhillips under their current contract provided 62% of gas supplied for generation, while Hilcorp provided 32%. The current gas contract with ConocoPhillips began providing gas in 2010 and will expire December 31, 2016. The current gas contract with Hilcorp began providing gas in 2011 and will expire March 31, 2023. ConocoPhillips and Hilcorp, together, fill 100% of Chugach’s firm needs through March 31, 2023. Gas to provide economy energy sales to GVEA was supplied by a gas supply arrangement with Hilcorp through March of 2015.
ConocoPhillips
Chugach entered into a contract with ConocoPhillips in 2009, which started providing gas January 1, 2010, and will terminate December 31, 2016. The total amount of gas under the contract is currently estimated to be 60 Bcf.
The gas supplied by ConocoPhillips under the contract is separated into two volume tranches for pricing purposes. “Firm Fixed Quantity” gas meets a portion of Chugach’s base load requirements, while “Firm Variable Quantity” gas meets peaking needs. All of the gas purchased under the contract is now firm fixed since firm variable gas was not provided by the contract after December 31, 2013. The dividing line between firm fixed and firm variable volumes was calculated based on a methodology that involved using a multiplier and the simple average of Chugach’s average daily volumes for the 30 lowest volume days during the last calendar year. The ConocoPhillips contract during 2015 had a fixed volume delivery of 17,000 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) per day at the Firm Fixed Quantity price.
Pricing for firm fixed gas will be based on the average of five Lower 48 natural gas production areas. The contract price is calculated on a quarterly basis as the trailing average of the simple daily average of the Platts Gas Daily midpoint prices for each “flow day” in these market areas during the last quarter.
Hilcorp
Chugach entered into a contract with Marathon Alaska Production (MAP) in 2010, to provide gas beginning April 1, 2011, through December 31, 2014, which included two contract extension options that were exercised in 2011. Effective February 1, 2013, this contract was assigned to Hilcorp who purchased MAP’s assets in Cook Inlet. The total amount of gas under contract is currently estimated to be 40 Bcf. Pricing for the 2015 term of the Hilcorp contract was set at $7.13 per Mcf. Pricing for the 2016 term is $7.42 per Mcf.
			
		
On October 1, 2012, Chugach entered into a Gas Sales and Purchase Agreement with Hilcorp for the purchase of gas with an effective period of April 1, 2013, through March 31, 2015. This agreement was intended for Chugach to produce economy energy for GVEA. GVEA reimbursed Chugach for the cost of gas related to economy energy sales.
Cook Inlet Energy, LLC
Chugach entered into a Gas Sale and Purchase Agreement (GSPA) with CIE in 2013, to supply gas from April 1, 2014, through March 31, 2018, with an option to extend for an additional five years by mutual agreement during the term of the GSPA. The GSPA with CIE provides Chugach with an opportunity to diversify its gas supply portfolio, and minimize its current dependence on the gas agreements in place with two vendors. The gas that may be purchased under the GSPA with CIE is not required, however it introduces a new pricing mechanism.
The GSPA identifies and defines two types of gas purchases. Base Gas is defined by the volume of gas purchased on a firm or interruptible basis at an agreed delivery rate. Pricing for base gas purchases ranges from $6.12 to $7.31 per Mcf. Swing Gas is gas sold to Chugach at a delivery rate in excess of the applicable Base Gas agreed delivery rate. Pricing for swing gas purchases ranges from $7.65 to $9.14 per Mcf.
AIX Energy, LLC
Chugach entered into a contract with AIX Energy, LLC (AIX) in 2014, to supply gas from March 1, 2015, through February 29, 2016. This agreement caps the price of gas at $6.24 per Mcf and the total volume at 300,000 Mcf. In anticipation of this agreement’s expiration, Chugach entered into another gas sale and purchase agreement with AIX in November of 2015, to provide gas beginning April 1, 2016, through March 31, 2023, with the option to extend to March 31, 2029. The AIX agreements provide flexibility in both the purchase price and volumes and allow Chugach to further diversify its gas supply portfolio, with no minimum purchase requirements.
Natural Gas Transportation Contracts
The terms of the ConocoPhillips and Hilcorp agreements require Chugach to transport gas. Chugach took over the transportation obligation for natural gas shipments for gas supplied under its contracts on October 1, 2010. The following information summarizes the transportation obligations for Chugach:
ENSTAR (Alaska Pipeline Company)
ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) has a tariff to transport our gas purchased from gas suppliers on a firm basis to our IGT Power Plant and SPP at a transportation rate of $0.6311 per Mcf. The agreement contains a fixed monthly customer charge of $2,600 for firm service.
Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Firm Transportation Service Agreement on May 21, 2012, to provide for the transportation of gas to SPP. The agreement commenced on August 1, 2012, and remains in effect until canceled upon a 12-month written notice by either party. The agreement sets a contracted peak demand of 36,300 Mcf per day.
			
		
Harvest Alaska, LLC Pipeline System
Marathon Oil Company sold its share of its subsidiary pipeline company Marathon Pipe Line Company as part of a Cook Inlet asset divestiture effective February 1, 2013, to Hilcorp. Hilcorp now operates four major gas pipelines through Harvest Alaska, LLC, in the Cook Inlet basin, including the Kenai-Nikiski Pipeline (KNPL), the Beluga Pipeline (BPL), the Cook Inlet Gas Gathering System (CIGGS) and the Kenai-Kachemak Pipeline (KKPL). Chugach has entered into tariff agreements to ship gas on the KNPL, BPL and CIGGS. Effective August 1, 2013, Chugach entered into a special contract with KNPL for Firm Service capacity over the Kenai Pipeline Junction (KPL) compressor of 35,000 Mcf per month for the movement of gas to its Beluga power plant at a firm capacity rate of $2.13 per Mcf. This agreement ended effective October 31, 2014.
On November 1, 2014, the RCA approved consolidation of these four pipelines into a single pipeline, the KBPL. Chugach has entered into tariff agreements to ship gas on the KBPL.
Environmental Matters
Chugach’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
Since January 1, 2007, transformer manufacturers have been required to meet the DOE efficiency levels as defined by the Energy Act for all “Distribution Transformers.” As of January 1, 2016, the specific efficiency levels are increasing from the original “TP1” levels to the new “DOE-2016” levels. The Energy Act mandates specific types of low voltage dry-type transformers manufactured and sold in the USA to have efficiencies as defined by the 10 CFR Part 431 standard when loaded to 35% of maximum capacity. Chugach is in the process of evaluating our transformer specifications and will make modifications as necessary with our alliance transformer manufacturers to ensure DOE-2016 is met. At this time a small increase in capital costs is anticipated along with a reduction in energy losses.
The Clean Air Act and EPA regulations under the Clean Air Act establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants. New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or new regulatory programs. On August 3, 2015, the EPA released the final 111(d) regulation language aimed at reducing emissions of CO2 from existing power plants that provide electricity for utility customers. In the final rule, the EPA took the approach of making the individual states responsible for the development and implementation of plans to reduce the rate of CO2 emissions from the power sector. The EPA has initially applied the final rule to 47 of the contiguous states. At this time Alaska, Hawaii, Vermont, Washington D.C. and two U.S. territories are not bound by the regulation. Alaska may be required to comply at some
			
		
future date. On February 9, 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay on the proposed EPA 111(d) regulations until the DC Circuit decides the case, or until the disposition of a petition to the Supreme Court on the issue. The EPA 111(d) regulation, in its current form, is not expected to have a material effect on Chugach’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. While Chugach cannot predict the implementation of any additional new law or regulation, or the limitations thereof, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase capital and operating costs. Chugach has obtained or applied for all Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of generating facilities.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. Chugach does not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on its financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. However, the implementation of any new law or regulation, or limitation thereof, or changes in or new interpretations of laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses. Chugach monitors proposed new regulations and existing regulation changes through industry associations and professional organizations.
Item 3