Item 2 - Properties
General
We have 530 megawatts of installed capacity consisting of 17 generating units at five power plants. These include 385.0 megawatts of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 67.5 megawatts of power at the Bernice Lake facility on the Kenai Peninsula; 46.7 megawatts of power at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 megawatts at the Cooper Lake facility, which is also on the Kenai Peninsula. We also have 11.7 megawatts of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and AML&P. In addition to our own generation, we purchase power from the 126 megawatt Bradley Lake hydroelectric project owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA) through Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority. The Bradley Lake facility is operated by HEA and dispatched by us. The Beluga, Bernice Lake and International facilities are all fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga and International. We also own all improvements comprising our generating plant at Bernice Lake, located on land leased from HEA. The Bernice Lake ground lease expires in 2011. We are in the process of reviewing the lease. We have no reason to believe that we will not be able to renew the lease if desired. The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on federal land. Consequently, we must operate the Project pursuant to a major project license granted to us by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in May 1957. The current license expires in 2007, so we are preparing an application for a new license for continued operation of the project in consultation with state and federal agencies, non-governmental organizations and interested public. We anticipate that the FERC will conduct its relicensing process in a manner that allows us to continue operation of the Project after 2007.
In 1997, we acquired a 30% interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The plant is located on federal land pursuant to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October 1997.
Our principal generation units are Beluga 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. These units have a combined capacity of 345.8 MW and meet most of our load. All other units are used principally as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with periodic upgrades. Beluga Unit 3 had a major inspection in 2002 with combustion inspections performed in 2003. Beluga Unit 5 received a hot gas path inspection in 2002 with combustion inspections in 2003. The first major inspection of Beluga Unit 6 was performed in 2003 since the unit was repowered in 2000. During that inspection the first stage of blades and vanes designs were changed resulting in a gain in power output. Beluga Unit 7 was repowered in 2001. A combustion inspection was performed on Unit 7 during 2003 and its first major inspection after the repower will take place in 2004. Beluga Unit 8, a steam turbine, received a major inspection in 2002 and a routine annual inspection took place in 2003.
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2003 and percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
(1) Capacity rating in MW at 30 degrees Fahrenheit. (2) Steam-turbine powered generator with heat provided by exhaust from natural-gas fueled Units 6 and 7 (combined-cycle). (3) Beluga Unit 4 and Bernice Lake Unit 1 were retired during 1994. (4) The Eklutna Hydroelectric Plant is jointly owned by Chugach, MEA and AML&P. The capacity shown is our 30% share of the plant's maximum output. (5) Because Eklutna Hydroelectric Plant is operated by MEA and managed by a committee of the three owners, we do not record run hours or in-commission rates. Note: GE = General Electric, BB = Brown Boveri
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2003, our transmission and distribution assets included 39 substations and 402 miles of transmission lines, 928 miles of overhead distribution lines and 710 miles of underground distribution line. We own the land on which 20 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30% of the Eklutna facility, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Many substations and a substantial number of our transmission and distribution rights-of-way are the subject of federal or state permits and licenses. Under a federal license and a permit from the United States Forest Service, we operate the Quartz Creek transmission substation, substations at Hope, Summit Lake and Daves Creek, and transmission lines over all federal lands between Cooper Lake on the Kenai Peninsula and Anchorage. Long-term permits from the Alaska Division of Lands and the Alaska Railroad Corporation govern much of the rest of our transmission system outside the Anchorage area. Within the Anchorage area, we operate our University substation and several major transmission lines pursuant to long-term rights-of-way grants from the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, and transmission and distribution lines have been constructed across privately owned lands via easements across public rights-of-way and waterways pursuant to authority granted by the appropriate governmental entity.
Title
Under the Amended and Restated Indenture, all of Chugach's bonds are general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. Chugach is prohibited from creating or permitting to exist any mortgage, lien, pledge, security interest or encumbrance on our properties and assets (other than those arising by operation of law) to secure the repayment of borrowed money or the obligation to pay the deferred purchase price of property unless we equally and ratably secure all bonds subject to the Amended and Restated Indenture, except that we may incur secured indebtedness in an amount not to exceed $5 million or enter into sale and leaseback or similar agreements.
Many of our properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake. We are a participant in the Bradley Lake hydroelectric project, which is a 126 megawatt rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled at 90 megawatts to minimize losses and insure system stability. We have a 30.4% (27.4 megawatts as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project's output, and take Seward's and MEA's shares which we net bill to them, for a total of 45% of the project's capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4% of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (AML&P, HEA and MEA (through AEG&T), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). We also provide transmission and related services as a wheeling agent (one who dispatches and transmits power of third parties over its own system) for all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The length of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is fifty years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September, 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is the longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive forty-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that our maximum annual liability for our take-or-pay obligations is approximately $4.1 million. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel surcharge mechanism. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $44 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant's share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant's percentage share is increased by more than 25%.
We negotiated with AEG&T a scheduling agreement whereby we schedule HEA's share of the Bradley Lake project through AEG&T for the benefit of the Railbelt electric system. AEG&T continues to pay its Bradley Lake project costs and receives credit for the Bradley Lake energy generated for HEA. We pay a fixed annual fee of $112,000 to AEG&T for these scheduling rights. This agreement allows us to improve the efficiency of our generating resources through better hydrothermal coordination.
Eklutna. We purchased a 30% undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the federal government in 1997. MEA also owns 17% of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The power MEA purchases from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is pooled with our purchases and sold back to MEA to be used in meeting MEA's overall power requirements. AML&P owns the remaining 53% undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project.
Fuel Supply
For 2003, 84% of our power was generated from gas, and 97% of that gas-fired generation took place at Beluga.
Our primary sources of natural gas are the Beluga River Field producers (ConocoPhillips Alaska, Inc., AML&P, ChevronTexaco) and Marathon Oil Company (Marathon). ConocoPhillips, AML&P and ChevronTexaco each own one-third of the gas produced from the Beluga River Field and in 2003 provided approximately equal shares of the Beluga gas. We have approximately 310 billion cubic feet (BCF) of remaining gas committed to us from Marathon and the Beluga River Field producers (including Period 3 gas). We currently use approximately 23.5 BCF of natural gas per year for firm service. We believe that this usage will increase approximately 0.5 BCF per year and estimate that our contract gas will last 10 to 15 years. Under almost all circumstances the deliverability supplied under our contracts is sufficient to meet all the needs of the Beluga Plant.
Beluga River Field Producers
We have similar requirements contracts with each of ConocoPhillips, AML&P and ChevronTexaco that were executed in April 1989, superseding contracts that had been in place since 1973. Each of the contracts with the Beluga River Field producers provides for delivery of gas on different terms in three different periods. Period 1 related to the delivery of gas previously committed by the respective producer under the 1973 contracts and ended in June 1996.
During Period 2, which began in June 1996 and continues until the earlier of the delivery of 180 BCF of natural gas or December 31, 2013, we are entitled to take delivery of up to 180 BCF of natural gas (60 BCF per Beluga River Field producer). During this period, we are required to take 60% of our total fuel requirements at Beluga from the three Beluga River Field producers, exclusive of gas purchased at Beluga under the Marathon contract for use in making sales to GVEA or certain other wholesale purchasers. The price for gas during this period under the ConocoPhillips and AML&P contracts is approximately 88% of the price of gas under the Marathon contract (described below) ($2.3814 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) on January 1, 2004), plus taxes. The price during this period under the ChevronTexaco contract is approximately 110% of the price of gas under the Marathon contract (described below) ($2.9768 per MCF on January 1, 2004), plus taxes.
During Period 3 under the Beluga River Field producers' contracts, which begins on the earlier of December 31, 2013, or the end of Period 2, we may become entitled to take delivery of up to 120 BCF of natural gas (40 BCF per producer). Whether any gas will be taken in Period 3, and the price and take requirements with respect thereto, are to be determined in the future based upon then-current market conditions.
We have supplemental, annually renewable contracts with the Beluga River Field producers to supply supplemental gas (for peak periods of energy usage) if they have it available in excess of the amounts guaranteed in the basic contracts. The supplemental gas contracts raise the daily deliverability of gas from the Beluga River Field producers to an aggregate of 85,200 MCF per day. The base price of the gas under these contracts is the same as the base price under the Marathon contract (described below), plus taxes. ConocoPhillips has verbally indicated that it intends to terminate their supplemental gas contract. Chugach will explore ways to cover these needs in the future.
Marathon
We entered into a requirements contract with Marathon in September 1988 for an initial commitment of 215 BCF. The contract expires on the earlier of December 31, 2015, or the date on which Marathon has delivered to us a volume of gas in total, which equals or exceeds 215 BCF, which we currently expect to occur by mid-2010. The base price for gas under the Marathon contract is $1.35 per MCF, adjusted quarterly to reflect the percentage change between the preceding twelve-month period and a base period in the average prices of West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil (a benchmark of the Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures Index), the Producer Price Index for natural gas, and the Consumer Price Index for heating fuel oil. The price on January 1, 2004, exclusive of taxes, was $2.7062 per MCF.
Under the terms of the Marathon contract, Marathon generally provides the primary supply of gas required for sales to GVEA, all of our requirements at Bernice Lake, International and Nikiski and 40% of the requirements at Beluga, not related to sales to GVEA. Marathon also has a right of first refusal to provide additional gas under any sales agreements that we may enter into with electric utilities we do not currently serve. The terms of the Marathon contract also gave Marathon a right to provide additional volumes in the period following depletion of the initial commitment of 215 BCF. On June 13, 2001, we were notified that Marathon will not commit to supply any additional volumes.
ENSTAR
We entered into a transportation agreement with ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) in December 1992, whereby ENSTAR would transport our gas purchased from the Beluga River Field producers or Marathon on a firm basis to our International Power Plant at a transportation rate of $0.63 per MCF. In addition, ENSTAR agreed to transport gas on an interruptible basis for off-system sales at a rate of $0.29 per MCF. The agreement contains a minimum monthly bill of $2,600 for firm service. We hold a reservation to receive our gas requirements at IGT from ENSTAR under a tariff approved by the RCA in the event that the transportation agreement is subsequently canceled. ENSTAR is obligated to supply all of the gas we require at a price approved by the RCA. There is a monthly minimum bill of $10,465 but no requirement to actually use any gas at IGT.
Environmental Matters
General
Chugach's operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
The Clean Air Act and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the act (the "Clean Air Act") establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants. Some Clean Air Act programs that regulate electric utilities, notably the Title IV "acid rain" requirements, do not apply to facilities located in Alaska. The EPA's anticipated regulations to limit mercury emissions from fossil-fired steam-electric generating facilities, are not expected to materially impact Chugach because our thermal power plants burn exclusively natural gas.
New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or may result from new regulatory programs that may be established to address problems such as global warming. While we cannot predict whether any new regulation would occur or its limitation, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase our capital and operating costs. We have obtained or applied for all Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of our generating facilities, and we are not aware of any future requirements that will materially impact our financial condition.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. We do not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operation. However, new laws or regulations, implementation of final regulations or changes in or new interpretations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses.
Cooper Lake
Chugach discovered polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in paint, caulk and grease at the Cooper Lake Hydroelectric plant during initial phases of a turbine overhaul. A FERC approved plan, prepared in consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), was implemented to remediate the PCBs in the plant. As a condition of its approval of the license amendment for the overhaul project, FERC required Chugach to also investigate the presence of PCBs in Kenai Lake. A sampling plan was developed by Chugach in consultation with state and federal agencies and approved by FERC. In 2000, Chugach sampled sediments and fish collected from Kenai Lake and other waters. While low levels of PCBs were found in some sediment samples taken near the plant, no pathway from sediment to fish was established. While the levels of PCBs in fish from Kenai Lake were similar to levels found in fish from other lakes within the region, Chugach conducted additional sampling and analysis of fish in Kenai Lake and other waters and filed Chugach's final report dated April 1, 2002, with FERC, which analyzed the results of the sampling. Based on these analyses, Chugach concluded that no further PCB sampling and analysis in Kenai Lake was necessary. In a letter dated June 13, 2002, FERC informed Chugach that its review of the report supported Chugach's conclusions and agreed Chugach was not required to conduct further PCB sampling and analysis in Kenai Lake. In its recent order in Chugach's general rate case, Order U-01-108(26), the RCA permitted the costs associated with the overhaul and the PCB remediation to be recovered through rates. Consequently, management believes the costs of the PCB remediation and studies will have no material impact on Chugach's financial condition or results of operations.
Item 3