Item 2 - Properties
General
In 2012, we had 462.6 MW of installed capacity consisting of 14 generating units at four power plants. These included 385.0 MW of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 46.7 MW of power at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 MW at the Cooper Lake facility, which is also on the Kenai Peninsula. We also owned rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and ML&P. Effective December 31, 2011, we sold the Bernice Lake Power Plant to AEEC and HEA, see “Item 1 - Business - Wholesale Customers - HEA.” On February 1, 2013, SPP began commercial operation, furnishing 183 MW of base capacity provided by 4 generating units. Chugach will own and take approximately 70 percent of this plant’s output and ML&P will own and take the remaining 30 percent. In addition to our own generation, we purchased power from the 126 MW Bradley Lake hydroelectric project owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA). The Bradley Lake facility is operated by HEA and dispatched by us. The Beluga and IGT facilities are all fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga, IGT and SPP. Effective December 31, 2011, we sold the Bernice Lake Power Plant to AEEC and HEA, see “Item 1 - Business - Wholesale Customers - HEA.”
The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on Federal lands. Chugach operates and maintains the Cooper Lake project pursuant to a 50-year license granted to us by FERC in August 2007. As part of the relicensing process, there was a negotiated Relicensing Settlement Agreement (RSA) entered into in August of 2005. A requirement of the RSA requires Chugach to establish a flow regime in Cooper Creek below the Cooper Lake Dam. This is a project that includes a Stetson Creek Diversion (Dam), Pipeline (Conveyance System) and Cooper Lake Outlet Works. The project is designed to remove colder water flowing into the Cooper Creek drainage and replace it with warmer Cooper Lake water. Project construction is scheduled for 2013 and 2014.
Cooper Lake Units 1 and 2 were taken out of service in October of 2012 for annual maintenance and annual inspections were completed at that time. Unit 2 was taken out of service in July of 2011 for a bearing replacement and annual inspections were completed on both units in August of 2011.
In 1997, we acquired a 30 percent interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The plant is located on federal land pursuant to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October 1997. MEA owns 17 percent of the project and ML&P owns the remaining 53 percent undivided interest. Chugach operates the plant and ML&P maintains the plant.
Our primary generation units at Beluga are units 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8. These units have a combined capacity of 345.8 MW and met most of our load in 2012. All other units are used principally as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with scheduled inspections and periodic upgrades. In 2011, Unit 3 received a scheduled hot gas path inspection, in which several hot gas path parts were replaced. Combustion inspections were performed on Unit 3 in 2010, 2011 and 2012 in accordance with the existing maintenance plan. Beluga Unit 5 continued to have two combustion inspections in 2010 and 2012. In 2011, Unit 5 received a major inspection which involved replacement of turbine rotor parts. In 2010, Unit 6 received a major inspection in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished ones. Unit 6 had an annual inspection in 2011 and 2012. During the Unit 6 2012 annual inspection, combustion components nearing end of life were also replaced. Beluga Unit 7 had a major inspection in 2012, in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished parts and annual inspections were performed in 2010 and 2011. Beluga Unit 8, a steam turbine generator, received a major inspection in 2012. Annual inspections were performed on Unit 8 in 2010 and 2011.
On February 1, 2013, SPP began commercial operation, furnishing 183 MW of base capacity provided by 4 generating units. Chugach will own and take approximately 70 percent of this plant’s output and ML&P will own and take the remaining 30 percent. Chugach will proportionately account for its ownership in SPP.
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2012 and percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
(1) Capacity rating in MW at 30 degrees Fahrenheit.
(2) Steam-turbine powered generator with heat provided by exhaust from natural gas fueled Units 6 and 7 (combined-cycle).
(3) Beluga Unit 4 was retired during 1994.
(4) The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is jointly owned by Chugach, MEA and ML&P. The capacity shown is our 30 percent share of the plant’s output under normal operating conditions. The actual nameplate rating on each unit is 23.5 MW.
(5) Because the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is managed by a committee of the three owners, we do not record run hours or in-commission rates.
Note: GE = General Electric, BBC = Brown Boveri Corporation, AP = Alstom Power
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2012, our transmission and distribution assets included 43 substations and 539 miles of transmission lines, which included 128 miles of leased transmission lines and Chugach’s share of the Eklutna transmission line, 912 miles of overhead distribution lines and 776 miles of underground distribution line. In 2012, Chugach completed a new substation to connect SPP to the Chugach and ML&P systems. We own the land on which 24 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30 percent of the Eklutna facility, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Many substations and a substantial portion of our transmission and distribution system are subject to federal, state or borough permits, leases or licenses, Alaska Railroad Corporation (ARRC) permits and private lands via easements. We operate the Postmark and Point Woronzof substations under rights from the Alaska Department of Transportation and Public Facilities and the Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport. The University Substation is operated under rights from the Federal Bureau of Land Management. The Dowling Substation is operated under rights from the State Department of Natural Resources, and many distribution lines and transmission corridors are operated under a combination of private and public rights, to include the Matanuska-Susitna Borough and the United States Army/Air Force. Outside of Anchorage, the Portage Substation is operated under rights from the ARRC and the Cooper Lake Power Plant, Quartz Creek Substation and transmission corridors are operated under a federal license. The Hope and Daves Creek substations are operated under rights from the Alaska Department of Natural Resources, and other portions of the transmission and distribution system are operated under rights from the US Forest Service, the Kenai Peninsula Borough, Chugach State Park and other public entities.
Title
On January 20, 2011, Chugach and the indenture trustee entered into a Second Amended and Restated Indenture of Trust (the Indenture) granting a lien on substantially all of Chugach’s assets to secure Chugach’s long-term debt. Assets that are generally not subject to the lien of the Indenture include cash (other than cash deposited with the indenture trustee); instruments and securities; patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property; vehicles and other movable equipment; inventory and consumable materials and supplies; office furniture, equipment and supplies; computer equipment and software; office leases; other leasehold interests for an original term of less than five years; contracts (other than power sales agreements with members having an original term exceeding three years, certain contracts specifically identified in the indenture, and other contracts relating to the ownership, operation or maintenance of generation, transmission or distribution facilities); non-assignable permits, licenses and other contract rights; timber and minerals separated from land; electricity, gas, steam, water and other products generated, produced or purchased; other property in which a security interest cannot legally be perfected by the filing of a Uniform Commercial Code financing statement, and certain parcels of real property specifically excepted from the lien of the Indenture. The lien of the Indenture may be subject to various permitted encumbrances that include matters existing on the date of the Indenture or the date on which property is later acquired; reservations in U.S. patents; non-delinquent or contested taxes, assessments and contractors’ liens; and various leases, rights-of-way, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, reservations, licenses and permits that do not materially impair Chugach’s use of the mortgaged property in the conduct of Chugach’s business.
Many of Chugach’s properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake. We are a participant in the Bradley Lake hydroelectric project, which is a 126 MW rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled below 90 MW to minimize losses and ensure system stability. We have a 30.4 percent (27.4 MW as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project’s output, and take Seward’s and MEA’s shares which we net bill to them, for a total of 45.2 percent of the project’s capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4 percent of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166.0 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (ML&P, HEA and MEA (through AEG&T and AEEC), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like-percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). By contract, we also provide transmission and related services to all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The term of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is fifty years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is the longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive forty-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel and purchased power adjustment process. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $28.7 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant’s share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant’s percentage share is increased by more than 25 percent. Upon default, Chugach could be faced with annual expenditures of approximately $5.1 million as a result of Chugach’s Bradley Lake take-or-pay obligations.
On July 1, 2010, AEA issued $28.8 million of Power Revenue Refunding Bonds, Sixth Series, for purposes of refunding $30.6 million of the Fifth Series Bonds. The refunded Fifth Series Bonds were called on August 2, 2010. The refunding resulted in aggregate debt service payments over the next eleven years in a total amount approximately $3.3 million less than the debt service payments which would have been due on the refunded bonds. Refunding the Fifth Series Bonds resulted in an economic gain of approximately $2.4 million. Chugach received its proportionate share of this savings which represented a reduction in debt-service costs recorded as purchased power expense.
The State of Alaska provided an initial grant for work on a project to divert water from Battle Creek into Bradley Lake. The project is being managed by the Alaska Energy Authority and pending financing, could be completed in 2014. Based on stream flow measurements from 1991 through 1993, diverting a portion of Battle Creek into Bradley Lake has the potential to increase annual energy output up to 40,000 MWh. Chugach would be entitled to 30.4 percent of the additional energy produced.
Eklutna. We purchased a 30 percent undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the federal government in 1997. MEA owns 17 percent of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The power MEA purchases from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is pooled with our purchases and sold back to MEA to be used in meeting MEA’s overall power requirements. ML&P owns the remaining 53 percent undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project.
Fuel Supply
In 2012, 89 percent of our power was generated from natural gas, which included power generated at Nikiski, and 83 percent of that gas-fired generation took place at Beluga.
Total gas usage in 2012 was approximately 27.2 BCF. In 2012, our sources of natural gas for firm sales were primarily divided among contracts with two major oil and gas companies. All of the production came from Cook Inlet, Alaska. ConocoPhillips Alaska Inc. under their current contract provided 24.2 percent of gas supplied for generation, while Marathon Oil Company provided 72.0 percent. The current contract with ConocoPhillips provided gas beginning in 2010 and will expire December 31, 2016. The current contract with Marathon Alaska Production, LLC (MAP) provided gas, now estimated to be 40 BCF, beginning in April of 2011, and will expire December 31, 2014. ConocoPhillips and Marathon, together, will fill 100 percent of Chugach’s needs through December 31, 2014. Gas to provide economy energy sales to GVEA was supplied by a gas supply arrangement with Hilcorp. The current economy gas supply arrangement with Hilcorp will supply gas during the summer months of 2013 and 2014.
Beluga River Field Producers
We had similar requirements contracts with each of the one third working interest owners of the Beluga River Field, ConocoPhillips, ML&P and Chevron, which were executed in April 1989, superseding contracts that had been in place since 1973.
The contracts continued until the earlier of the delivery of 180 BCF of natural gas or December 31, 2013. Chugach was entitled to 180 BCF of natural gas (60 BCF per Beluga River Field producer). During the term of the contracts, we were required to take 60 percent of our total fuel requirements at Beluga Power Plant from the three Beluga River Field producers, exclusive of gas purchased at Beluga Power Plant under the Marathon contract for use in making sales to GVEA. These contracts expired on March 31, 2011.
ConocoPhillips
We entered into a contract with ConocoPhillips Alaska Inc. (COP) in 2009. The contract provided gas starting January 1, 2010, and will terminate December 31, 2016. The total amount of gas under the contract is now estimated to be 60 BCF.
The gas supplied by COP under the contract is separated into two volume tranches for pricing purposes. “Firm Fixed Quantity” gas meets a portion of Chugach’s base load requirements, while “Firm Variable Quantity” gas meets peaking needs. Chugach expects that ninety percent of the gas purchased under the contract will be firm fixed and ten percent will be firm variable. The dividing line between firm fixed and firm variable volumes will be calculated based on a methodology that involves using a multiplier and the simple average of Chugach’s average daily volumes for the thirty lowest volume days during the last calendar year. For example, in 2013 the Firm Fixed Quantity value has been calculated at 34,500 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) per day.
Pricing for firm fixed gas will be based on the average of five Lower 48 natural gas production areas. The contract price will be calculated on a quarterly basis as the trailing average of the simple daily average of the Platts Gas Daily midpoint prices for each “flow day” in these market areas during the last quarter. For the first half of 2010 there was a price collar, floor of $5.75 per Mcf and cap of $6.25 per Mcf, on the firm fixed gas between January 1, 2010 and June 30, 2010.
Pricing for firm variable gas purchased between January 1, 2010, and March 31, 2011, was set based on one quarter trailing average of ninety-five percent of the average monthly price of Kenai liquefied natural gas delivered to Japan, as officially reported to the U.S. Department of Energy. Hourly volumes delivered up to this hourly rate will be priced based on the Firm Fixed Quantity price. Hourly volumes delivered in excess of this hourly rate will be priced based on the Firm Variable Quantity price, ($3.327 per Mcf on January 1, 2013). For the first quarter of 2011, the Firm Fixed Quantity was calculated at $3.689 per Mcf. Pricing for firm variable gas purchased from April 1, 2011, to December 31, 2013, will be 120 percent of the one calendar quarter trailing average of “Platts National Average Price” as published in Platts Gas Daily for each “flow day.” ($4.214 per Mcf on January 1, 2013), plus taxes in excess of $0.25 per Mcf. The price for firm variable gas is capped at two-hundred percent of the firm fixed price. Firm variable gas is not provided by the contract after December 31, 2013.
Chugach also has the option to receive a fixed price quote from COP and lock that price of any quantity as long as the quantity does not exceed the “Firm Fixed Quantity” and for any term up to December 31, 2016, for which price is to be locked.
Marathon Alaska Production
We entered into a contract with MAP effective May 17, 2010. The MAP contract provided gas beginning April 1, 2011 and will terminate December 31, 2014, which includes two contract extension options that were exercised in 2011. The total amount of gas under contract is now estimated to be 40 billion cubic feet (BCF).
Pricing for the second twelve month term of the MAP contract has been set at the contract floor price of $6.10 per Mcf. This was established based on the average price point of the Platts Gas Daily NYMEX twelve month forward curve (PLATTS report as of February 1, 2012) for the period April 2012 through March 2013 being set at $2.98 per Mcf, which was lower than the price floor making the price floor the pricing level for the second twelve month period.
Chevron/UNOCAL / Hilcorp
In May of 2010, Chugach entered into an interruptible gas purchase agreement with UNOCAL to supply gas for economy energy sales to GVEA. The agreement was due to terminate on March 31, 2012. Effective December 28, 2011, the gas purchase agreement was assigned to Hilcorp Alaska, LLC, (Hilcorp) who purchased Chevron/UNOCAL’s assets in Cook Inlet. On January 30, 2012, Hilcorp extended the term of the contract to March 31, 2013. Chugach has no exposure to the cost of gas related to economy energy sales since the cost of gas is recovered directly from its economy energy customer.
Natural Gas Transportation Contracts
The terms of the COP, MAP and Hilcorp agreements require Chugach to transport gas. Chugach took over the transportation obligation for natural gas shipments for gas supplied under its contracts on October 1, 2010. The following information summarizes the transportation obligations for Chugach:
ENSTAR (Alaska Pipeline Company)
ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) has a tariff to transport our gas purchased from gas suppliers on a firm basis to our IGT Power Plant and HEA’s Bernice Lake Power Plant at a transportation rate of $0.6311 per Mcf. The agreement contains a fixed monthly customer charge of $2,600 for firm service.
In November of 2012 Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Special Contract for Natural Gas Transportation Service to provide for the transport of gas to our Beluga power plant beginning November 1, 2012, through October 31, 2013, on an interruptible basis. This special contract has been approved by the RCA. Chugach expects to recover this cost through the fuel and purchased power recovery process.
Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Firm Transportation Service Agreement on May 21, 2012, to provide for the transportation of gas to our Southcentral Power Project. The agreement commenced on August 1, 2012, and shall remain in effect through August 1, 2013, and year to year thereafter until canceled upon a twelve month written notice by either party. The agreement sets a contracted peak demand of 36,000 Mcf per day.
Hilcorp Alaska, LLC
Effective October 1, 2012, Chugach and Hilcorp entered into a gas exchange agreement to exchange gas which Chugach has entered into agreements to deliver on the east side of Cook Inlet with gas that Hilcorp may have on the west side of Cook Inlet. The agreement terminates on September 30, 2013, or within a 30 day notice by either party.
Marathon Pipeline System
Marathon Oil Company, through its subsidiary Marathon Pipe Line Company, operates four major pipelines in the Cook Inlet basin, including the Kenai Nikiski Pipeline (KNPL), Granite Point Beluga Line (BPL), Cook Inlet Gas Gathering System (CIGGS) and the Kenai Kachemak Pipeline (KKPL). Chugach has entered into tariff agreements to ship gas on the KNPL, BPL and CIGGS.
Environmental Matters
General
Chugach’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
The Clean Air Act and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the Clean Air Act establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants.
New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or may result from new regulatory programs. On October 30, 2009, the EPA published new federal regulations requiring the mandatory reporting of greenhouse gases from all sectors of the economy. Chugach is subject to this new regulation, which is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. While we cannot predict whether any additional new regulation would occur or its limitation, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase our capital and operating costs. We have obtained or applied for all Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of our generating facilities.
SPP was required by its Air Quality Permit to collect ambient air background data. Data collection began on September 1, 2011 and continued through August 31, 2012. On December 19, 2012, the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) determined that the ambient pollutant data at SPP meets the requirements of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program set forth by the EPA. This action completed the data collection requirement.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. We do not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. However, new laws or regulations, implementation of final regulations or changes in or new interpretations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses.
Item 3