Item 2 - Properties
General
We have 530.1 MW of installed capacity consisting of 17 generating units at five power plants. These include 385.0 MW of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 67.5 MW of power at the Bernice Lake facility on the Kenai Peninsula; 46.7 MW of power at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 MW at the Cooper Lake facility, which is also on the Kenai Peninsula. We also own rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and AML&P. In addition to our own generation, we purchase power from the 126 MW Bradley Lake hydroelectric project owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA) through the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority. The Bradley Lake facility is operated by HEA and dispatched by us. The Beluga, Bernice Lake and IGT facilities are all fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga and IGT. In 2008 and 2009 we purchased land adjacent to our Anchorage headquarters for use during the construction of a new gas fired generation plant we are jointly developing with AML&P. We also own all improvements comprising our generating plant at Bernice Lake, located on land leased from HEA for an immaterial amount. The Bernice Lake ground lease expires in 2011. We are currently involved in discussions with the lease holder concerning a lease extension.
The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on Federal lands. Chugach operates and maintains the Cooper Lake project pursuant to a 50-year license granted to us by FERC in August 2007. As part of the relicensing process, there was a negotiated Relicensing Settlement Agreement (RSA) entered into in August of 2005. The RSA required Chugach to paint the powerhouse and Cooper Lake intake structure per United States Forest Service (USFS) color specification to reduce visual impact of project facilities. This task was completed in August of 2009. The RSA also required Chugach to design, permit, and construct a winter access parking area. This project was completed in September of 2009. The most significant requirement of the RSA requires Chugach to establish a flow regime in Cooper Creek below the Cooper Lake Dam. This is a complex project that includes a Stetson Creek Diversion (Dam), Pipeline (Conveyance System) and Cooper Lake Outlet Works. In short, it is designed to remove colder water flowing into Cooper Creek drainage and replace it with warmer Cooper Lake water, possibly improving fish habitat. Our consultants have completed extensive geotechnical feasibility work over the last two years and recently issued a “Draft” Basis of Design Report. The next step is to complete the final design package to submit to FERC. Chugach was successful in obtaining a two year extension on this deliverable, which is now due in August of 2012.
Cooper Lake Unit 2 was taken out of service in August of 2008 to perform repairs and major maintenance. The unit was put back into service in May of 2009. Unit 1 was taken out of service in May of 2009, shortly after the return to service of Unit 2, to perform repairs and major maintenance, and returned back into service in February of 2010. Both units were in service or standby since February of 2010.
In 1997, we acquired a 30 percent interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The plant is located on federal land pursuant to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October 1997. MEA owns 17 percent of the project and AML&P owns the remaining 53 percent undivided interest and performs maintenance on the units as needed.
Our principal generation units are Beluga 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. These units have a combined capacity of 345.8 MW and meet most of our load. All other units are used principally as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with scheduled inspections and periodic upgrades. Due to the age of Unit 3, several of the high risk parts of the turbine rotor were replaced during a major inspection in 2007. Combustion inspections were performed on Unit 3 in 2008, 2009 and 2010 in accordance with the existing maintenance plan. Beluga Unit 5 continued to have two combustion inspections per year in 2008, 2009 and 2010. In 2007, this unit received a hot gas path inspection which involved generator repairs. Beluga Unit 6 was re-powered in 2000 and received annual inspections in 2007, 2008 and 2009. In 2010, Unit 6 received a major inspection in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished parts. Beluga Unit 7 was re-powered in 2001 and had major inspections in 2004 and 2008 with annual inspections in 2007, 2009 and 2010. Beluga Unit 8, a steam turbine generator, received a major inspection in 2008 with annual inspections in 2009 and 2010.
Chugach is in the process of developing a natural gas-fired generation plant on land owned by Chugach near its Anchorage headquarters. SPP will be developed and owned by Chugach and AML&P as tenants in common. Chugach will own and take approximately 70 percent of the new plant’s output and AML&P will own and take the remaining output. Chugach will proportionately account for its ownership in the SPP.
On November 17, 2008, Chugach executed a gas turbine purchase agreement for the purchase of three gas turbines with General Electric Packaged Power (GEPP). During 2009 Chugach executed several amendments associated with its purchase agreement with GEPP, which included the purchase of a spare engine for maintenance purposes. Chugach executed an Owner’s Engineer Services Contract on May 12, 2009. On January 5, 2010, Chugach executed a Services Contract for the shipment of the combustion turbine generators and related accessories. On February 25, 2010, Chugach purchased land adjacent to its Anchorage headquarters for the laydown of equipment displaced by the new power plant. On April 13, 2010, Chugach executed a steam turbine generator (STG) purchase agreement. On June 18, 2010, Chugach executed an Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contract with SNC-Lavalin Constructors, Inc. (SLCI). On August 27, 2010, Chugach executed a Once Through Steam Generator (OTSG) equipment contract with Innovative Steam Technologies (IST). Chugach amended the contract for transportation of combustion turbine generators on September 28, 2010, to include transportation of the steam turbine generator. On December 20, 2010, Chugach received a construction permit from the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation allowing the project to begin construction in the spring of 2011 as planned. On March 15, 2011, Chugach received its initial building permit from the Municipality of Anchorage. Chugach made payments of $74.3 million in 2010 and $25.0 million in 2009, with additional payments of $153.7 million expected in 2011, pursuant to all these contracts.
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2010 and percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
(1)
Capacity rating in MW at 30 degrees Fahrenheit.
(2)
Steam-turbine powered generator with heat provided by exhaust from natural-gas fueled Units 6 and 7 (combined-cycle).
(3)
Beluga Unit 4 and Bernice Lake Unit 1 were retired during 1994.
(4)
The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is jointly owned by Chugach, MEA and AML&P. The capacity shown is our 30 percent share of the plant’s output under normal operating conditions. The actual nameplate rating on each unit is 23.5MW.
(5)
Because Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is managed by a committee of the three owners, we do not record run hours or in-commission rates.
Note: GE = General Electric, BBC = Brown Boveri Corporation, AP = Alstom Power
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2010, our transmission and distribution assets included 42 substations and 539 miles of transmission lines, which included 128 miles of leased transmission lines and Chugach’s share of the Eklutna transmission line, 914 miles of overhead distribution lines and 779 miles of underground distribution line. We own the land on which 22 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30 percent of the Eklutna facility, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Many substations and a substantial number of our transmission and distribution rights-of-way are subject to federal or state permits, leases and licenses. Under a federal license and a permit from the United States Forest Service, we operate the Quartz Creek transmission substation and the Hope substation. We also operate transmission lines over federal, state and borough lands. Under a State of Alaska permit from the Department of Natural Resources, we operate the Summit Lake and Daves Creek substations. Long-term permits from the Alaska Division of Lands and the Alaska Railroad Corporation govern much of the rest of our transmission system outside the Anchorage area. Within the Anchorage area, we operate our University substation and several major transmission lines pursuant to long-term rights-of-way grants from the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, and transmission and distribution lines have been constructed across privately owned lands via easements and across public rights-of-way and waterways pursuant to authority granted by the appropriate governmental entity.
Title
Under Chugach’s Amended and Restated Indenture dated April 1, 2001, all of Chugach’s bonds were general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. On January 20, 2011, Chugach and the indenture trustee entered into a Second Amended and Restated Indenture of Trust (the Indenture) granting a lien on substantially all of Chugach’s assets to secure Chugach’s long-term debt. Assets that are generally not subject to the lien of the Indenture include cash (other than cash deposited with the indenture trustee); instruments and securities; patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property; vehicles and other movable equipment; inventory and consumable materials and supplies; office furniture, equipment and supplies; computer equipment and software; office leases; other leasehold interests for an original term of less than five years; contracts (other than power sales agreements with members having an original term exceeding three years, certain contracts specifically identified in the indenture, and other contracts relating to the ownership, operation or maintenance of generation, transmission or distribution facilities); non-assignable permits, licenses and other contract rights; timber and minerals separated from land; electricity, gas, steam, water and other products generated, produced or purchased; other property in which a security interest cannot legally be perfected by the filing of a Uniform Commercial Code financing statement, and certain parcels of real property specifically excepted from the lien of the Indenture. The lien of the Indenture may be subject to various permitted encumbrances that include matters existing on the date of the Indenture or the date on which property is later acquired; reservations in U.S. patents; non-delinquent or contested taxes, assessments and contractors’ liens; and various leases, rights-of-way, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, reservations, licenses and permits that do not materially impair Chugach’s use of the mortgaged property in the conduct of Chugach’s business.
Many of Chugach’s properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake. We are a participant in the Bradley Lake hydroelectric project, which is a 126 MW rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled below 90 MW to minimize losses and ensure system stability. We have a 30.4 percent (27.4 MW as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project’s output, and take Seward’s and MEA’s shares which we net bill to them, for a total of 45.2 percent of the project’s capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4 percent of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (AML&P, HEA and MEA (through AEG&T and AEEC), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). By contract, we also provide transmission and related services to all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The term of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is fifty years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is the longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive forty-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel surcharge process. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $33 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant’s share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant’s percentage share is increased by more than 25 percent. Upon default, Chugach could be faced with annual expenditures of approximately $5.3 million as a result of Chugach’s Bradley Lake take-or-pay obligations.
On July 1, 2010, AEA issued $28,800,000 of Power Revenue Refunding Bonds, Sixth Series, for purposes of refunding $30,640,000 of the Fifth Series Bonds. The refunded Fifth Series Bonds were called on August 2, 2010. The refunding resulted in aggregate debt service payments over the next eleven years in a total amount approximately $3.3 million less than the debt service payments which would have been due on the refunded bonds. Refunding the Fifth Series Bonds resulted in an economic gain of approximately $2.4 million. Chugach’s share of these savings will be approximately $714,300, which represents the reduction in debt-service costs recorded as purchased power expense.
Eklutna. We purchased a 30 percent undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the federal government in 1997. MEA owns 17 percent of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The power MEA purchases from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is pooled with our purchases and sold back to MEA to be used in meeting MEA’s overall power requirements. AML&P owns the remaining 53 percent undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project.
Fuel Supply
In 2010, 89 percent of our power was generated from natural gas, which included power generated at Nikiski, and 78 percent of that gas-fired generation took place at Beluga.
Total gas usage in 2010 was approximately 28.9 BCF. Our primary sources of natural gas are divided among four long-term contracts with three major oil and gas companies and one utility. All of the production came from Cook Inlet, Alaska. ConocoPhillips Alaska Inc. under their Beluga River Unit (BRU) and new contract provided 42.0 percent of gas supplied for generation, while Marathon Oil Company provided 34.0 percent. Chevron U.S.A. provided 15.0 percent and AML&P provided 10.0 percent of Chugach’s gas requirements. Approximately 2.2 BCF of gas remains on the current contracts. Our contract gas with Marathon expired in 2010 and we expect the remaining three contracts to run-out in early 2011. The new contract with ConocoPhillips provides gas beginning in 2010, through December 31, 2016. A new contract with Marathon will provide gas, now estimated to be 26 BCF, beginning in April of 2011, which together, will fill Chugach’s unmet needs through December 31, 2013. Under almost all circumstances the deliverability supplied under our contracts is sufficient to meet all of our generating requirements.
ConocoPhillips
We entered into a contract with ConocoPhillips Alaska Inc. (COP) in 2009. The new contract provides gas starting January 1, 2010, and will terminate December 31, 2016. The total amount of gas under the contract is now estimated to be 62 BCF. The new contract is designed to fill 100 percent of Chugach’s unmet needs until April 2011, approximately 50 percent of Chugach’s unmet needs from May 2011 through December 2014, approximately 60 percent in 2015 and approximately 29 percent in 2016.
The gas supplied by COP under the contract is separated into two volume tranches for pricing purposes. “Firm Fixed Quantity” gas meets a portion of Chugach’s base load requirements, while “Firm Variable Quantity” gas meets peaking needs. Chugach expects that ninety percent of the gas purchased under the contract will be firm fixed and ten percent will be firm variable. The dividing line between firm fixed and firm variable volumes will be calculated based on a methodology that involves using a multiplier and the simple average of Chugach’s average daily volumes for the thirty lowest volume days during the last calendar year. For example, in 2011 the Firm Fixed Quantity value has been calculated at 34,500 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) per day, which is the contract minimum.
Pricing for firm fixed gas will be based on the average of five Lower 48 natural gas production areas. The contract price will be calculated on a quarterly basis as the trailing average of the simple daily average of the Platts Gas Daily midpoint prices for each “flow day” in these market areas during the last quarter. For the first half of 2010 there was a price collar, floor of $5.75 per Mcf and cap of $6.25 per Mcf, on the firm fixed gas between January 1, 2010 and June 30, 2010. After the initial period we experienced firm fixed price levels below the initial price floor of $5.75. For the period July 1 through September 30, 2010, the Firm Fixed Quantity price was $4.15. For the final quarter of 2010, (October 1 through December 21, 2010) the Firm Fixed Quantity price was $4.078.
Pricing for firm variable gas purchased between January 1, 2010, and March 31, 2011, was set based on one quarter trailing average of ninety-five percent of the average monthly price of Kenai liquefied natural gas delivered to Japan, as officially reported to the U.S. Department of Energy. The price for the first quarter of 2010 was $10.388 per Mcf, while the price for the second quarter was $11.016 per Mcf. Hourly volumes delivered up to this hourly rate will be priced based on the Firm Fixed Quantity price. Hourly volumes delivered in excess of this hourly rate will be priced based on the Firm Variable Quantity price. For the first quarter of 2011, the Firm Fixed Quantity is calculated at $3.689 per Mcf. Pricing for firm variable gas purchased from April 1, 2011, to December 31, 2013, will be 120 percent of the one calendar quarter trailing average of “Platts National Average Price” as published in Platts Gas Daily for each “flow day.” ($4.31 per Mcf on January 1, 2011), plus taxes in excess of $0.25 per Mcf. The price for firm variable gas is capped at two-hundred percent of the firm fixed price. Firm variable gas is not provided by the contract after December 31, 2013.
Chugach also has the option to receive a fixed price quote from COP and lock that price of any quantity as long as the quantity does not exceed the “Firm Fixed Quantity” and for any term up to December 31, 2016, for which price is to be locked.
Beluga River Field Producers
We have similar requirements contracts with each of the one third working interest owners of the Beluga River Field, ConocoPhillips, AML&P and Chevron, which were executed in April 1989, superseding contracts that had been in place since 1973.
The current contracts continue until the earlier of the delivery of 180 BCF of natural gas or December 31, 2013. Chugach is entitled to 180 BCF of natural gas (60 BCF per Beluga River Field producer). During the term of the contracts, we are required to take 60 percent of our total fuel requirements at Beluga Power Plant from the three Beluga River Field producers, exclusive of gas purchased at Beluga Power Plant under the Marathon contract for use in making sales to GVEA. The price for gas during this period under the ConocoPhillips and AML&P contracts is approximately 88 percent of the price of gas under the new Marathon contract (described below) ($5.90 per Mcf on April 1, 2011), plus taxes. The price during this period under the Chevron contract is approximately 110 percent of the price of gas under the Marathon contract (described below) ($5.15 per Mcf on January 1, 2011), plus taxes.
Chevron/UNOCAL
In May of 2010, Chugach entered into an interruptible gas purchase agreement with UNOCAL to supply gas for economy energy sales to GVEA. Chugach has no exposure to the cost of gas related to economy energy sales since the cost of gas is directly paid for by its economy energy gas customer.
Marathon Alaska Production
We entered into a requirements contract with Marathon in September 1988 for an initial commitment of 215 BCF. The contract was due to expire on the earlier of December 31, 2015, or the date on which Marathon delivered to us a volume of gas in total, which equaled 215 BCF. The base price for gas under the Marathon contract was $1.35 per Mcf, adjusted quarterly to reflect the percentage change between the preceding twelve-month period and a base period in the average closing prices of New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) Light, Sweet Crude Oil Futures, the Producer Price Index for natural gas, and the Consumer Price Index for heating fuel oil.
Under the terms of the Marathon contract, Marathon was to provide all of Chugach’s requirements at Bernice Lake, IGT and Nikiski. Additionally, Marathon had responsibility to supply 40 percent of gas volumes to the Beluga plant. This contract was estimated to expire and did expire in 2010. During 2010, Marathon volumes were not sufficient to meet the 40% gas requirements for the full year. To make the transition from the expiring Marathon contract to the new COP gas contract, Marathon and ConocoPhillips shared the gas deliverability of the 40% gas volume for the entire year.
The RCA approved a new long-term natural gas supply contract with Marathon Alaska Production, LLC (MAP) effective May 17, 2010. The new MAP contract will provide gas beginning April 1, 2011, terminating March 31, 2013. MAP has two contract extension options that can be exercised during the first year of the initial contract. MAP extended the contract to December 31, 2013, by exercising the first contract extension on January 12, 2011. The second contract option could be exercised by December 31, 2011, and would extend the contract through December 31, 2014. The total amount of gas under contract is estimated at 26 billion cubic feet (BCF) for the initial two year term of the contract with volumetric and delivery terms to be determined for each contract extension period that could provide up to an additional 16 BCF through December 31, 2014.
Pricing for the first twelve month term of the MAP contract has been set at the contract floor price of $5.90 per Mcf. This was established based on the average price point of the Platts Gas Daily NYMEX twelve month forward curve (PLATTS report as of February 1, 2011) for the period April, 2011 through March 2012 being set at $4.68 per Mcf, which was lower than the price floor making the price floor the pricing level for the first twelve month period.
Natural Gas Transportation Contracts
The terms of the new COP, MAP and UNOCAL agreements require Chugach to handle the natural gas transportation over the connecting pipeline systems. Chugach took over the transportation obligation for natural gas shipments for gas supplied under its new contracts on October 1, 2010. Chugach started shipping significant quantities of gas over Marathon Pipe Line Company (MPL) operated pipelines and ENSTAR Natural Gas pipeline system. Chugach entered into tariff supported contracts to serve its power plants through MPL effective October 1, 2010, and ENSTAR November 15, 2010. The following information summarizes the transportation obligations for Chugach:
ENSTAR (Alaska Pipeline Company)
ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) has a tariff to transport our gas purchased from gas suppliers on a firm basis to our IGT Power Plant at a transportation rate of $0.63 per Mcf. The agreement contains a fixed monthly charge of $2,840 for firm service. In December of 2010, Chugach applied for extension of this tariff rate with ENSTAR to service the Bernice Lake Power Plant. Chugach expects regulatory approval in the first quarter of 2011.
Chugach entered into a special transportation agreement with ENSTAR for the transportation of natural gas to the Beluga Power Plant from points of receipt on the Kenai to the Beluga Power Plant on ENSTAR’s west side pipeline system. This agreement has an initial term of November 15, 2010, through October 31, 2011.
Marathon Pipeline System
Marathon Oil Company, through its subsidiary Marathon Pipe Line Company, operates four major pipelines in the Cook Inlet basin, including the Kenai Nikiski Pipeline (KNPL), Granite Point Beluga Line (BPL), Cook Inlet Gas Gathering System (CIGGS) and the Kenai Katchemak Pipeline (KKPL). Chugach has entered into two tariff agreements to ship gas over the KNPL and BPL.
Environmental Matters
General
Chugach’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
The Clean Air Act and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the act (the “Clean Air Act”) establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants. Some Clean Air Act programs that regulate electric utilities, notably the Title IV “acid rain” requirements, do not apply to facilities located in Alaska.
New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or may result from new regulatory programs. On October 30, 2009, the EPA published new federal regulations requiring the mandatory reporting of greenhouse gases from all sectors of the economy. Chugach is subject to this new regulation, which is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. While we cannot predict whether any additional new regulation would occur or the effect of that regulation, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase our capital and operating costs. We have obtained or applied for all Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of our generating facilities.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. We do not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. However, new laws or regulations, implementation of final regulations or changes in or new interpretations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses.
Item 3