Item 2 - Properties
General
In 2013, we had 602.7 MW of installed capacity consisting of 18 generating units at five power plants. These included 385.0 MW of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 140.1 MW at SPP in Anchorage, which we jointly own with ML&P; 46.7 MW at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 MW at the Cooper Lake facility, which is also on the Kenai Peninsula. We also own rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and ML&P. Effective December 31, 2011, we sold the Bernice Lake Power Plant to AEEC and HEA, see “Item 1 - Business - Wholesale Customers - HEA.” In addition to our own generation, we purchased power from the 120 MW Bradley Lake Hydroelectric Project, which is owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA), operated by HEA and dispatched by Chugach. In 2013, we also purchased power from Fire Island Wind, LLC (FIW) and the Nikiski Power Plant, which is owned by HEA. The Beluga, IGT and SPP facilities are all fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT and SPP in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga, IGT and SPP. Effective December 31, 2011, we sold the Bernice Lake Power Plant to AEEC and HEA, see “Item 1 - Business - Wholesale Customers - HEA.”
Our principal generation assets are in two plants, Beluga and SPP. Our principal generation units at Beluga are Units 6, 7, and 8. These units have a combined capacity of 212.3 MW. All other units at Beluga are used principally as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with scheduled inspections and periodic upgrades. In 2010, Unit 6 received a major inspection in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished parts. Unit 6 had an annual inspection in 2011, 2012, and 2013. During the 2012 annual inspection of Unit 6, combustion components nearing end of life were also replaced. Beluga Unit 7 had a major inspection in 2012, in which many of the major components were replaced with new or refurbished parts. Annual inspections were performed on this unit in 2011 and 2013. Beluga Unit 8, a steam turbine generator, received a major inspection in 2012 which included rotor life extension activities. Annual inspections were performed on Unit 8 in 2011 and 2013.
On February 1, 2013, SPP began commercial operation, furnishing 200.2 MW of capacity provided by 4 generating units. Chugach owns and takes approximately 70 percent of this plant’s output and ML&P owns and takes the remaining 30 percent. Chugach proportionately accounts for its ownership in SPP. Our principal generation units at SPP are Units 10, 11, 12, and 13. Throughout 2013, SPP units received preventative maintenance inspections consistent with original equipment manufacturer (OEM) recommendations. Units 11, 12, and 13, which have gas turbine generators, received two internal combustion system inspections each and one full annual inspection of the turbine systems. All three steam-generating boilers were internally inspected as well as hydrotested in accordance with initial OEM recommendations.
The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on Federal lands. Chugach operates and maintains the Cooper Lake project pursuant to a 50-year license granted to us by FERC in August of 2007. As part of the relicensing process, there was a negotiated Relicensing Settlement Agreement (RSA) entered into in August of 2005. A requirement of the RSA requires Chugach to establish a flow regime in Cooper Creek below the Cooper Lake Dam. This is a project that includes a Stetson Creek Diversion (Dam), Pipeline (Conveyance System) and Cooper Lake Outlet Works. The project is designed to remove colder water flowing into the Cooper Creek drainage and replace it with warmer Cooper Lake water. Project construction began in 2013 and will be completed in 2014.
The two generating units at Cooper Lake, Units 1 and 2, have a combined capacity of 19.2 MW. Both units were taken out of service for annual maintenance and annual inspections in October of 2012 and 2013. Unit 2 was taken out of service in July of 2011 for a bearing replacement and annual inspections were completed on both units in August of 2011.
The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is located on federal land pursuant to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October of 1997. The facility is jointly owned by Chugach (30 percent), MEA (17 percent) and ML&P (53 percent). The facility is operated by Chugach and maintained jointly by Chugach and ML&P. Chugach owns rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units.
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2013, percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
(1) Capacity rating in MW at 30 degrees Fahrenheit.
(2) Steam-turbine powered generator with heat provided by exhaust from natural gas fueled Units 6 and 7 (combined-cycle).
(3) Beluga Unit 4 was retired during 1994.
(4) The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is jointly owned by Chugach, MEA and ML&P. The capacity shown is our 30 percent share of the plant’s output under normal operating conditions. The actual nameplate rating on each unit is 23.5 MW.
(5) Run hours or in-commission rates are not recorded by Chugach for the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project as it is managed by a committee of three owners.
(6) The Southcentral Power Project is jointly owned by Chugach and ML&P. The capacity shown is our 70 percent share of the plant’s output under normal operating conditions. The actual nameplate rating for the project is 200.2 MW.
Note: BBC = Brown Boveri Corporation, AP = Alstom Power
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2013, our transmission and distribution assets included 43 substations and 539 miles of transmission lines, which included 128 miles of leased transmission lines and Chugach’s share of the Eklutna transmission line, 909 miles of overhead distribution lines and 781 miles of underground distribution line. In 2012, Chugach completed a new substation to connect SPP to the Chugach and ML&P systems. We own the land on which 24 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30 percent of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Most of Chugach’s substation and generation sites are on Chugach-owned lands. The rights for the sites not on Chugach-owned lands are as follows: The Postmark, Point Woronzof and Raspberry Substations, and the East Terminal Site (N/S runway) are under rights from the State Department of Transportation and Public Facilities/Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport; the East Terminal Site (6 mile) is under rights from the Matanuska-Susitna Borough; the West Terminal Site is under rights from the Army/Air Force; the University Substation is under rights from the Federal Bureau of Land Management; the Dowling, Hope and Daves Creek Substations are under rights from the State Department of Natural Resources; the Portage Substation is under rights from the Alaska Railroad Corporation (ARRC); the Summit Lake Substation is under rights from the United States Forest Service, and the Indian Substation will be under rights from the Chugach State Park upon approval. The Cooper Lake Power Plant and Quartz Creek Substation, and the 69kV transmission line between them, are operated under a federal license. Most of Chugach’s transmission, sub-transmission and distribution lines are either on public lands under rights from the federal, state, municipal, borough or ARRC, or on private lands via easements.
Title
On January 20, 2011, Chugach and the indenture trustee entered into the Indenture, granting a lien on substantially all of Chugach’s assets to secure Chugach’s long-term debt. Assets that are generally not subject to the lien of the Indenture include cash (other than cash deposited with the indenture trustee); instruments and securities; patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property; vehicles and other movable equipment; inventory and consumable materials and supplies; office furniture, equipment and supplies; computer equipment and software; office leases; other leasehold interests for an original term of less than five years; contracts (other than power sales agreements with members having an original term exceeding three years, certain contracts specifically identified in the Indenture, and other contracts relating to the ownership, operation or maintenance of generation, transmission or distribution facilities); non-assignable permits, licenses and other contract rights; timber and minerals separated from land; electricity, gas, steam, water and other products generated, produced or purchased; other property in which a security interest cannot legally be perfected by the filing of a Uniform Commercial Code financing statement, and certain parcels of real property specifically excepted from the lien of the Indenture. The lien of the Indenture may be subject to various permitted encumbrances that include matters existing on the date of the Indenture or the date on which property is later acquired; reservations in United States patents; non-delinquent or contested taxes, assessments and contractors’ liens; and various leases, rights-of-way, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, reservations, licenses and permits that do not materially impair Chugach’s use of the mortgaged property in the conduct of Chugach’s business.
Many of Chugach’s properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake. We are a participant in the Bradley Lake Hydroelectric Project, which is a 120 MW rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled below 90 MW to minimize losses and ensure system stability. We have a 30.4 percent (27.4 MW as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project’s output, and take Seward’s and MEA’s shares which we net bill to them, for a total of 45.2 percent of the project’s capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4 percent of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166.0 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (ML&P, HEA and MEA (through AEG&T and AEEC), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like-percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). By contract, we also provide transmission and related services to all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The term of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is 50 years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September of 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is the longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive forty-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel and purchased power adjustment process. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $26.6 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant’s share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant’s percentage share is increased by more than 25 percent. Upon default, Chugach could be faced with annual expenditures of approximately $5.2 million as a result of Chugach’s Bradley Lake take-or-pay obligations.
The State of Alaska provided an initial grant for work on a project to divert water from Battle Creek into Bradley Lake. The project is being managed by the Alaska Energy Authority. Based on stream flow measurements from 1991 through 1993, diverting a portion of Battle Creek into Bradley Lake has the potential to increase annual energy output up to 40,000 MWh. Chugach would be entitled to 30.4 percent of the additional energy produced.
Eklutna. Along with two other utilities, Chugach purchased the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the federal government in 1997. Ownership was transferred from the DOE’s Alaska Power Administration jointly to Chugach (30 percent), MEA (17 percent) and ML&P (53 percent). The power MEA purchases from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is pooled with Chugach’s purchases and sold back to MEA to be used to meet MEA’s overall power requirements.
Fuel Supply
In 2013, 87 percent of our power was generated from natural gas, which included power generated at the Nikiski Power Plant and the Bernice Lake Power Plant.
Total gas purchased in 2013 was approximately 26.2 Bcf. In 2013, our sources of natural gas for firm sales were primarily divided among contracts with three major oil and gas companies. All of the production came from Cook Inlet, Alaska. ConocoPhillips under their current contract provided 45 percent of gas supplied for generation, Hilcorp provided 49 percent and MAP provided 5 percent (prior to the sale of MAP to Hilcorp). The current gas contract with ConocoPhillips provided gas beginning in 2010 and will expire December 31, 2016. The current gas contract with Hilcorp, provided gas beginning in April of 2011, and will expire March 31, 2018. ConocoPhillips and Hilcorp, together, fill up to 100 percent of Chugach’s firm needs through March 31, 2018. Gas to provide economy energy sales to GVEA is supplied by a gas supply arrangement with Hilcorp through March of 2015.
Beluga River Field Producers
We had similar requirements contracts with each of the one-third working interest owners of the Beluga River Field, ConocoPhillips, ML&P and Chevron, which were executed in April of 1989, superseding contracts that had been in place since 1973.
The contracts continued until the earlier of the delivery of 180 Bcf of natural gas or December 31, 2013. Chugach was entitled to 180 Bcf of natural gas (60 Bcf per Beluga River Field producer). During the term of the contracts, we were required to take 60 percent of our total fuel requirements at Beluga Power Plant from the three Beluga River Field producers, exclusive of gas purchased at Beluga Power Plant under the Marathon contract for use in making sales to GVEA. These contracts expired on March 31, 2011.
ConocoPhillips
We entered into a contract with ConocoPhillips in 2009. The contract provided gas starting January 1, 2010, and will terminate December 31, 2016. The total amount of gas under the contract is now estimated to be 60 Bcf.
The gas supplied by ConocoPhillips under the contract is separated into two volume tranches for pricing purposes. “Firm Fixed Quantity” gas meets a portion of Chugach’s base load requirements, while “Firm Variable Quantity” gas meets peaking needs. Chugach expects that 100 percent of the gas purchased under the contract will be firm fixed and no purchases will be made under firm variable gas since firm variable gas is not provided by the contract after December 31, 2013. The dividing line between firm fixed and firm variable volumes was calculated based on a methodology that involves using a multiplier and the simple average of
Chugach’s average daily volumes for the 30 lowest volume days during the last calendar year. The ConocoPhillips contract during 2014 will be subject to a fixed volume delivery of 25,000 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) per day at the Firm Fixed Quantity price.
Pricing for firm fixed gas will be based on the average of five Lower 48 natural gas production areas. The contract price will be calculated on a quarterly basis as the trailing average of the simple daily average of the Platts Gas Daily midpoint prices for each “flow day” in these market areas during the last quarter.
Pricing for firm variable gas purchased between January 1, 2010, and March 31, 2011, was set based on one quarter trailing average of 95 percent of the average monthly price of Kenai liquefied natural gas delivered to Japan, as officially reported to the DOE. Hourly volumes delivered up to this hourly rate will be priced based on the “Firm Fixed Quantity” price of $3.784 per Mcf on January 1, 2014. Hourly volumes delivered in excess of this hourly rate will be priced based on the “Firm Variable Quantity” price. For the first quarter of 2011, the “Firm Fixed Quantity” was calculated at $3.689 per Mcf. Pricing for firm variable gas purchased from April 1, 2011, to December 31, 2013, was 120 percent of the one calendar quarter trailing average of “Platts National Average Price” as published in Platts Gas Daily for each “flow day.” The price for firm variable gas is capped at two-hundred percent of the firm fixed price. Firm variable gas is not provided by the contract after December 31, 2013.
Chugach also has the option to receive a fixed price quote from ConocoPhillips and lock that price of any quantity as long as the quantity does not exceed the “Firm Fixed Quantity” and for any term up to December 31, 2016, for which price is to be locked.
Marathon Alaska Production/Hilcorp
We entered into a contract with MAP effective May 17, 2010, to provide gas beginning April 1, 2011, and terminate December 31, 2014, including two contract extension options that were exercised in 2011. Effective February 1, 2013, the gas purchase agreement was assigned to Hilcorp who purchased MAP’s assets in Cook Inlet. The total amount of gas under contract is now estimated to be 40 Bcf. Pricing for the second 12-month term of the MAP contract has been set at the contract floor price of $6.10 per Mcf. This was established based on the average price point of the Platts Gas Daily NYMEX 12-month forward curve (PLATTS report as of February 1, 2012) for the period of April of 2012 through March of 2013 being set at $2.98 per Mcf, which was lower than the price floor making the price floor the pricing level for the second 12-month period. Pricing from April of 2013 through December 31, 2013, was $5.98 per Mcf. Pricing for January 1, 2014, through December 31, 2014, is priced at $6.18 per Mcf. This was established based on the average price point of the Platt’s Gas Daily NYMEX 12-month forward curve (PLATTS report as of November 1, 2013) for the period covering January of 2014 through December of 2014.
Chevron/UNOCAL/Hilcorp
In May of 2010, Chugach entered into an interruptible gas purchase agreement with UNOCAL to supply gas to Chugach to produce economy energy for GVEA. The agreement was due to terminate on March 31, 2012. Effective December 28, 2011, the gas purchase agreement was assigned to Hilcorp who purchased Chevron/UNOCAL’s assets in Cook Inlet. On January 30, 2012, Hilcorp extended the term of the contract to March 31, 2013.
On October 1, 2013, Chugach entered into a Gas Sales and Purchase Agreement with Hilcorp for the purchase of gas with an effective period of April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015. This agreement is intended for Chugach to produce economy energy for GVEA. GVEA reimburses Chugach for the cost of gas related to economy energy sales
Cook Inlet Energy, LLC
On November 25, 2013, the RCA approved the Gas Sale and Purchase Agreement (GSPA) between Chugach and Cook Inlet Energy, LLC (CIE), which was filed with the RCA on September 30, 2013, and effective December 2, 2013. The RCA also approved inclusion of all gas costs incurred under the GSPA through Chugach’s fuel and purchased power cost adjustment mechanism.
The agreement may supply gas from April 1, 2014 through December 31, 2018, with an option to extend for an additional five years by mutual agreement during the term of the GSPA. The GSPA with CIE provides Chugach with an opportunity to diversify its gas supply portfolio, and minimize its current dependence on the gas agreements in place with two vendors. The gas that may be purchased under the GSPA with CIE is not required, however it introduces a new pricing mechanism.
The GSPA identifies and defines two types of gas purchases. Base Gas is defined by the volume of gas purchased on a firm or interruptible basis at an agreed delivery rate. Pricing for base gas purchases ranges from $6.12 to $7.31 per Mcf. Swing Gas is gas sold to Chugach at a delivery rate in excess of the applicable Base Gas agreed delivery rate. Pricing for swing gas purchases ranges from $7.65 to $9.14 per Mcf.
Natural Gas Transportation Contracts
The terms of the ConocoPhillips and Hilcorp agreements require Chugach to transport gas. Chugach took over the transportation obligation for natural gas shipments for gas supplied under its contracts on October 1, 2010. The following information summarizes the transportation obligations for Chugach:
ENSTAR (Alaska Pipeline Company)
ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) has a tariff to transport our gas purchased from gas suppliers on a firm basis to our IGT Power Plant and SPP at a transportation rate of $0.6311 per Mcf. The agreement contains a fixed monthly customer charge of $2,600 for firm service.
In November of 2012, Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Special Contract for Natural Gas Transportation Service to provide for the transport of gas to our Beluga power plant beginning November 1, 2012, through October 31, 2013, on an interruptible basis. This special contract was
approved by the RCA. Chugach recovered this cost through the fuel and purchased power recovery process. In November of 2013, Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Special Contract for Natural Gas Transporation Service to provide for the interruptible transportation of gas to our Beluga Power Plant beginning December 15, 2013. Service under this agreement continues through December 15, 2014, and continues thereafter until canceled upon 90 days written notice by either party. This special contract has been approved by the RCA. Chugach recovers this cost through the fuel and purchased power recovery process.
Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Firm Transportation Service Agreement on May 21, 2012, to provide for the transportation of gas to SPP. The agreement commenced on August 1, 2012, and remains in effect until canceled upon a 12-month written notice by either party. The agreement sets a contracted peak demand of 36,300 Mcf per day.
Hilcorp Alaska, LLC
Effective October 1, 2012, Chugach and Hilcorp entered into a gas exchange agreement to exchange gas which Chugach has entered into agreements to deliver on the east side of Cook Inlet with gas that Hilcorp may have on the west side of Cook Inlet. The agreement terminated on September 30, 2013.
Marathon Pipeline System
Marathon Oil Company, through its subsidiary Marathon Pipe Line Company, operates four major gas pipelines in the Cook Inlet basin, including the Kenai Nikiski Pipeline (KNPL), Granite Point Beluga Line (BPL), Cook Inlet Gas Gathering System (CIGGS) and the Kenai Kachemak Pipeline (KKPL). Chugach has entered into tariff agreements to ship gas on the KNPL, BPL and CIGGS.
Hilcorp Alaska, LLC Pipeline System
Marathon Oil Company sold its share of its subsidiary pipeline company Marathon Pipe Line Company as part of a Cook Inlet asset divestiture effective February 1, 2013, to Hilcorp. Hilcorp now operates four major gas pipelines in the Cook Inlet basin, including the KNPL, the BPL, the CIGGS and the KKPL. Chugach has entered into tariff agreements to ship gas on the KNPL, BPL and CIGGS. Effective August 1, 2013, Chugach entered into a special contract with KNPL for Firm Service capacity over the Kenai Pipeline Junction (KPL) compressor of 35,000 Mcf per month for the movement of gas to its Beluga power plant at firm capacity rate of $2.13 per Mcf. This agreement is effective through July 31, 2014 and is subject to renewal through an open season bid process.
Environmental Matters
General
Chugach’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
The Clean Air Act and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the Clean Air Act establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants. EPA is moving forward with regulations that seek to limit carbon emissions in the United States. Power plants are the single largest source of carbon emissions in the United States. In September of 2013, EPA announced a proposal to establish the first uniform national limits on carbon pollution from future power plants. These regulations will not apply to existing power plants. For existing power plants, EPA is engaged in outreach to a broad group of stakeholders who can inform the development of proposed guidelines, which are expected to be issued in June of 2014.
New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or new regulatory programs. Chugach is subject to these regulations, which have not had and are not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. While we cannot predict whether any additional new regulation would occur or its limitation, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase our capital and operating costs. Chugach has obtained Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of our generating facilities.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. We do not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. However, new laws or regulations, implementation of final regulations or changes in or new interpretations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses. Chugach follows proposed new regulations and existing regulation changes through industry associations and professional organizations.
Item 3