Item 2 - Properties
General
We have 530.1 MW of installed capacity consisting of 17 generating units at five power plants. These include 385.0 MW of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 67.5 MW of power at the Bernice Lake facility on the Kenai Peninsula; 46.7 MW of power at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 MW at the Cooper Lake facility, which is also on the Kenai Peninsula. We also own rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and AML&P. In addition to our own generation, we purchase power from the 126 MW Bradley Lake hydroelectric project owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA) through the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority. The Bradley Lake facility is operated by HEA and dispatched by us. The Beluga, Bernice Lake and IGT facilities are all fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga and IGT. In December of 2008 we purchased land adjacent to our Anchorage headquarters for use during the construction of a new gas fired generation plant we are jointly developing with AML&P. We also own all improvements comprising our generating plant at Bernice Lake, located on land leased from HEA for an immaterial amount. The Bernice Lake ground lease expires in 2011. We are currently involved in discussions with the lease holder concerning a lease extension.
The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on federal land. We operate and maintain the Cooper Lake power plant pursuant to a 50-year license granted to us by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in August 2007. Cooper Lake Unit 2 was out of service since August of 2008 when it was forced out of service by damage to its turbine runner and wicket gates. It was repaired, major maintenance performed, and the unit put back into service in May of 2009. Inspection of Unit 1 during the Unit 2 outage identified damage on the Unit 1 runner as well, though it was not as extensive as Unit 2. Unit 1 was taken out of service in May of 2009, shortly after the return to service of Unit 2, to perform repairs and major maintenance, and returned back into service in February of 2010.
In 1997, we acquired a 30 percent interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The plant is located on federal land pursuant to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October 1997.
Our principal generation units are Beluga 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. These units have a combined capacity of 345.8 MW and meet most of our load. All other units are used principally as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with annual inspections and periodic upgrades. Due to the age of Unit 3, several of the high risk parts of the turbine rotor were replaced during a major inspection in 2007. A combustion inspection was performed on Unit 3 in 2006 and again in 2008 and 2009 in accordance with the existing maintenance plan. Beluga Unit 5 continued to have two combustion inspections per year in 2007, 2008 and 2009 due to high rates of wear observed on aging combustion parts. One of these inspections in 2007 was a hot gas path inspection involving generator repairs. Beluga Unit 6 was re-powered in 2000 and had major inspections in 2003 and 2006 with annual inspections in 2007, 2008 and 2009. During the annual inspection in 2007 the last row of turbine blades was exchanged. Beluga Unit 7 was re-powered in 2001 and had major inspections in 2004 and 2008 with annual inspections in 2007 and 2009. Beluga Unit 8, a steam turbine, received a 25,000-hour inspection in 2005 and a major inspection in 2008 with an annual inspection in 2009.
Chugach is in the process of developing a natural gas fired generation plant on land currently owned by Chugach near its Anchorage headquarters. The SPP will be developed and owned jointly with AML&P. Chugach will own and take 70 percent of the new plant’s output and AML&P will own and take the remaining 30 percent. Chugach will account for its ownership in the SPP proportionately. Chugach and AML&P signed Participation, Operation and Maintenance (O&M) and Lease Agreements (Agreements) for this project on August 28, 2008. On November 17, 2008, Chugach executed a gas turbine purchase agreement for the purchase of three gas turbines with an option for a fourth turbine with General Electric Packaged Power (GEPP). The option to purchase a fourth turbine expired on January 31, 2009. During 2009 Chugach executed several change orders associated with its purchase agreement with GEPP totaling $7.2 million, which included the purchase of a spare engine for maintenance purposes. Chugach made progress and milestone payments of $5.1 and $24.3 million in 2008 and 2009, respectively, and is expected to make payments of $29.2 million in 2010, pursuant to its purchase agreement and subsequent change orders with GEPP. In December of 2008, Chugach purchased land adjacent to its Anchorage headquarters for SPP use. Chugach executed an Owner’s Engineer Services Contract on May 12, 2009. This contract expired on December 31, 2009, but was later renewed effective January 1, 2010. Chugach made payments of $0.7 million in 2009, pursuant to its Owner’s Engineer Services Contract. On January 5, 2010, Chugach executed a Services Contract for the shipment of the combustion turbine generators and related accessories. Chugach is expected to make payments of $1.1 million in 2010 pursuant to this contract. On February 25, 2010, Chugach purchased additional land adjacent to its Anchorage headquarters for the laydown of equipment displaced by the new power plant. Chugach is currently proceeding with a Request for Proposal (RFP) for engineering, procurement and construction services as well as a steam turbine generator purchase agreement to be awarded in 2010.
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2009 and percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
(1)
Capacity rating in MW at 30 degrees Fahrenheit.
(2)
Steam-turbine powered generator with heat provided by exhaust from natural-gas fueled Units 6 and 7 (combined-cycle).
(3)
Beluga Unit 4 and Bernice Lake Unit 1 were retired during 1994.
(4)
The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is jointly owned by Chugach, MEA and AML&P. The capacity shown is our 30 percent share of the plant’s output. The actual nameplate rating on each unit is 23.5MW.
(5)
Because Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is managed by a committee of the three owners, we do not record run hours or in-commission rates.
Note: GE = General Electric, BBC = Brown Boveri Corporation, AP = Alstom Power
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2009, our transmission and distribution assets included 42 substations and 533 miles of transmission lines, which included 128 miles of leased transmission lines and Chugach’s share of the Eklutna transmission line, 916 miles of overhead distribution lines and 769 miles of underground distribution line. We own the land on which 22 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30 percent of the Eklutna facility, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Many substations and a substantial number of our transmission and distribution rights-of-way are subject to federal or state permits, leases and licenses. Under a federal license and a permit from the United States Forest Service, we operate the Quartz Creek transmission substation and the Hope substation. We also operate transmission lines over federal, state and borough lands. Under a State of Alaska permit from the Department of Natural Resources, we operate the Summit Lake and Daves Creek substations. Long-term permits from the Alaska Division of Lands and the Alaska Railroad Corporation govern much of the rest of our transmission system outside the Anchorage area. Within the Anchorage area, we operate our University substation and several major transmission lines pursuant to long-term rights-of-way grants from the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, and transmission and distribution lines have been constructed across privately owned lands via easements and across public rights-of-way and waterways pursuant to authority granted by the appropriate governmental entity.
Title
Under the Amended and Restated Indenture, all of Chugach’s bonds are general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. Chugach is prohibited from creating or permitting to exist any mortgage, lien, pledge, security interest or encumbrance on our properties and assets (other than those arising by operation of law) to secure the repayment of borrowed money or the obligation to pay the deferred purchase price of property unless we equally and ratably secure all bonds subject to the Amended and Restated Indenture, except that we may incur secured indebtedness in an amount not to exceed $5 million or enter into sale and leaseback or similar agreements.
Many of our properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake. We are a participant in the Bradley Lake hydroelectric project, which is a 126 MW rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled below 90 MW to minimize losses and ensure system stability. We have a 30.4 percent (27.4 MW as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project’s output, and take Seward’s and MEA’s shares which we net bill to them, for a total of 45.2 percent of the project’s capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4 percent of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (AML&P, HEA and MEA (through AEG&T and AEEC), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). By contract, we also provide transmission and related services to all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The term of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is fifty years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is the longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive forty-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that our maximum annual liability for our take-or-pay obligations is approximately $5.4 million. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel surcharge process. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $34 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant’s share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant’s percentage share is increased by more than 25 percent.
Eklutna. We purchased a 30 percent undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the federal government in 1997. MEA owns 17 percent of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project. The power MEA purchases from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is pooled with our purchases and sold back to MEA to be used in meeting MEA’s overall power requirements. AML&P owns the remaining 53 percent undivided interest in the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project.
Fuel Supply
In 2009, 90 percent of our power was generated from natural gas, which included power generated at Nikiski, and 83 percent of that gas-fired generation took place at Beluga.
Total gas usage in 2009 was approximately 26 BCF. Our primary sources of natural gas are divided among four long-term contracts with major oil and gas companies. All of the production came from Cook Inlet, Alaska. Marathon Oil Company provided 52 percent, while ConocoPhillips Alaska Inc., AML&P, and Chevron U.S.A. each provided 16 percent of Chugach’s gas requirements. Approximately 27 BCF of gas remains on the current contracts. We estimate that our contract gas with Marathon will run-out in 2010 and expect the remaining three contracts to run-out in early 2011. A new contract with ConocoPhillips will provide gas, now estimated to be 62 BCF, beginning in 2010. Chugach has a tentative agreement on a contract that would fill Chugach’s remaining unmet needs through the near future and expects to file that contract with the RCA for approval by the end of the first quarter of 2010. Under almost all circumstances the deliverability supplied under our contracts is sufficient to meet all of our generating requirements.
ConocoPhillips
We entered into a contract with COP in 2009. The new contract will provide gas beginning in 2010 and will terminate December 31, 2016. The total amount of gas under the contract is now estimated to be 62 BCF. The new contract is now designed to fill 100 percent of Chugach’s unmet needs until April 2011, approximately 50 percent of Chugach’s unmet needs from May 2011 through December 2014, approximately 60 percent in 2015 and approximately 29 percent in 2016.
The gas supplied by COP under the contract is separated into two volume tranches for pricing purposes. “Firm Fixed Quantity” gas will meet a portion of Chugach’s base load requirements, while “Firm Variable Quantity” gas will meet peaking needs. Chugach expects that ninety percent of the gas purchased under the contract will be firm fixed and ten percent will be firm variable. The dividing line between firm fixed and firm variable volumes will be calculated based on a methodology that involves using a multiplier and the simple average of Chugach’s average daily volumes for the thirty lowest volume days during the last calendar year.
Pricing for firm fixed gas will be based on the average of five Lower 48 natural gas production areas. The contract price will be calculated on a quarterly basis as the trailing average of the simple daily average of the Platts Gas Daily midpoint prices for each “flow day” in these market areas during the last quarter. ($5.75 per MCF on January 1, 2010), exclusive of taxes. There will be a price collar, floor of $5.75 per MCF and cap of $6.25 per MCF, on the firm fixed gas between January 1, 2010 and June 30, 2010.
Pricing for firm variable gas purchased between January 1, 2010, and March 31, 2011, will be the one quarter trailing average of ninety-five percent of the average monthly price of Kenai liquefied natural gas delivered to Japan, as officially reported to the U.S. Department of Energy. Pricing for firm variable gas purchased from April 1, 2011, to December 31, 2013, will be 120 percent of the one calendar quarter trailing average of “Platts National Average Price” as published in Platts Gas Daily for each “flow day.” ($10.39 per MCF on January 1, 2010), plus taxes in excess of $0.25 per MCF. The price for firm variable gas is capped at two-hundred percent of the firm fixed price. Firm variable gas is not provided by the contract after December 31, 2013.
Chugach also has the option to receive a fixed price quote from COP and lock that price of any quantity as long as the quantity does not exceed the “Firm Fixed Quantity” and for any term up to December 31, 2016, for which price is to be locked.
Beluga River Field Producers
We have similar requirements contracts with each of the one third working interest owners of the Beluga River Field, ConocoPhillips, AML&P and Chevron, which were executed in April 1989, superseding contracts that had been in place since 1973.
The current contracts continue until the earlier of the delivery of 180 BCF of natural gas or December 31, 2013. Chugach is entitled to 180 BCF of natural gas (60 BCF per Beluga River Field producer). During the term of the contracts, we are required to take 60 percent of our total fuel requirements at Beluga Power Plant from the three Beluga River Field producers, exclusive of gas purchased at Beluga Power Plant under the Marathon contract for use in making sales to GVEA. The price for gas during this period under the ConocoPhillips and AML&P contracts is approximately 88 percent of the price of gas under the Marathon contract (described below) ($3.44 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) on January 1, 2010), plus taxes. The price during this period under the Chevron contract is approximately 110 percent of the price of gas under the Marathon contract (described below) ($4.44 per MCF on January 1, 2010), plus taxes.
Marathon
We entered into a requirements contract with Marathon in September 1988 for an initial commitment of 215 BCF. The contract expires on the earlier of December 31, 2015, or the date on which Marathon has delivered to us a volume of gas in total, which equals 215 BCF. Chugach estimates that the contract will run-out in 2010. The base price for gas under the Marathon contract is $1.35 per MCF, adjusted quarterly to reflect the percentage change between the preceding twelve-month period and a base period in the average closing prices of New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) Light, Sweet Crude Oil Futures, the Producer Price Index for natural gas, and the Consumer Price Index for heating fuel oil. The price on January 1, 2010, exclusive of taxes, was $4.04 per MCF.
Under the terms of the Marathon contract, Marathon provides all of Chugach’s requirements at Bernice Lake, IGT and Nikiski. Additionally, Marathon had responsibility to supply 40 percent of gas volumes to the Beluga plant. For the last year of the Marathon contract, year 2010, Marathon volumes are not sufficient to meet the 40% gas requirements for the full year. To make the transition from the expiring Marathon contract to the new COP gas contract, Marathon and ConocoPhillips are sharing the gas deliverability of the 40% gas volume for the entire year.
ENSTAR
ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) has a tariff to transport our gas purchased from gas suppliers on a firm basis to our IGT Power Plant at a transportation rate of $0.63 per MCF. The agreement contains a fixed monthly charge of $2,840 for firm service.
Environmental Matters
General
Chugach’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
The Clean Air Act and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the act (the “Clean Air Act”) establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants. Some Clean Air Act programs that regulate electric utilities, notably the Title IV “acid rain” requirements, do not apply to facilities located in Alaska. In 2008 the EPA vacated regulations to limit mercury emissions from fossil-fired steam-electric generating facilities.
New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or may result from new regulatory programs. On October 30, 2009, EPA published new federal regulations requiring the mandatory reporting of greenhouse gases from all sectors of the economy. Chugach is subject to this new regulation which is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. While we cannot predict whether any additional new regulation would occur or its limitation, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase our capital and operating costs. We have obtained or applied for all Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of our generating facilities.
In March 2007, Chugach conducted emissions testing at the Bernice Lake Power Plant which indicated that two of the gas turbines at the facility were exceeding the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) emission limit for nitrogen oxides (NOx). Chugach voluntarily limited the power output of these turbines to ensure interim compliance with the NSPS regulations until a water injection system to control NOx emissions from the turbines was installed and operational. With the water injection system, Chugach is able to fully utilize the power output from these turbines while complying with the NSPS regulations.
The Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) on March 26, 2008, regarding the NSPS NOx emission limit exceedances. Chugach entered into a settlement with ADEC regarding the NOV for the past NSPS non-compliance. Chugach and the ADEC signed the settlement agreement on February 18, 2009. As part of the settlement, Chugach paid a civil penalty of $112,161 to ADEC on April 3, 2009, bringing the issue to a close.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. We do not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operation. However, new laws or regulations, implementation of final regulations or changes in or new interpretations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses.
Item 3