Item 2 - Properties
General
As of December 31, 2017, we had 531.2 MW of installed capacity consisting of 16 generating units at five power plants. These included 332.0 MW of operating capacity at the Beluga facility on the west side of Cook Inlet; 140.1 MW at SPP in Anchorage, which we jointly own with ML&P; 28.2 MW at IGT in Anchorage; and 19.2 MW at the Cooper Lake facility, which is on the Kenai Peninsula. We also own rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units that we jointly own with MEA and ML&P.
In addition to our own generation, we purchased power from the 120 MW Bradley Lake Hydroelectric Project, which is owned by the Alaska Energy Authority (AEA), operated by Homer Electric Association, Inc. (HEA) and dispatched by Chugach, and MEA’s newly constructed 171 MW Eklutna Generation Station (EGS). We also purchased power from FIW.
The Beluga, IGT and SPP facilities are fueled by natural gas. We own our offices and headquarters, located adjacent to IGT and SPP in Anchorage. We also lease warehouse space for some generation, transmission and distribution inventory (including a small amount of office space).
Generation Assets
We own the land and improvements comprising our generating facilities at Beluga, IGT and SPP. Our principal generation assets are in two plants, Beluga and SPP. With SPP in operation, the Beluga units are used for peaking, and in the future, may be primarily used as reserve. While the Beluga turbine-generators have been in service for many years, they have been maintained in good working order with scheduled inspections and periodic upgrades. All Beluga units are inspected annually with combustion and hot gas path parts replaced according to their condition or as recommended by the manufacturer. Units 3 and 5 are most often run for peak demand and are being considered for major parts replacements and generator inspections over the next three years.
﻿
On February 1, 2013, SPP began commercial operation, contributing 200.2 MW of capacity provided by 4 generating units. Chugach owns 70% of this plant and ML&P owns the remaining 30%. Each owner takes a proportionate share of power from SPP. Our principal generation units at SPP are Units 10, 11, 12, and 13. Since the units have been in commercial operation, SPP units have received preventative maintenance inspections consistent with original equipment manufacturer (OEM) recommendations through 2017. The gas turbine generators of Units 11, 12, and 13 receive two internal combustion system inspections each and one full package inspection annually. In 2017, Unit 13 gas turbine was replaced with a spare gas turbine. The removed gas turbine was prepared for another full cycle of operation by the OEM and Chugach technicians under our Contractual Service Agreement and later installed in Unit 11 when it began to show evidence of bearing failure, per the OEM recommendation. Unit 10 steam turbine received a scheduled inspection consistent with OEM specifications. All three steam-generating boilers were internally inspected as well as hydrotested in accordance with OEM recommendations.
			
		
The Cooper Lake Hydroelectric Project is partially located on federal lands. Chugach owns, operates and maintains the Cooper Lake project subject to a 50-year license granted to us by FERC in August of 2007. As part of the relicensing process, a Relicensing Settlement Agreement (RSA) was entered into in August of 2005. A requirement of the RSA required Chugach to establish a flow regime in Cooper Creek below the Cooper Lake Dam; designed to replace colder water flowing into the Cooper Creek drainage from Stetson Creek with warmer Cooper Lake water. This project included a Stetson Creek Diversion (Dam), Pipeline (Conveyance System) and Cooper Lake Outlet Works. Project construction was completed in July 2015.
The two generating units at Cooper Lake, Units 1 and 2, have a combined capacity of 19.2 MW. Both units were taken out of service for annual maintenance in August of 2016 and 2017.
The Eklutna Hydroelectric Project is located on federal land subject to a United States Bureau of Land Management right-of-way grant issued in October of 1997. The facility is jointly owned, operated and maintained by Chugach, MEA, and ML&P with ownership shares of 30%, 17%, and 53%, respectively. Chugach owns rights to 11.7 MW of capacity from the two Eklutna Hydroelectric Project generating units.
			
		
The following matrix depicts nomenclature, run hours for 2017, percentages of contribution and other historical information for all Chugach generation units.
﻿
			
		
Transmission and Distribution Assets
As of December 31, 2017, our transmission and distribution assets included 43 substations and 434 miles of transmission lines, which included Chugach’s share of the Eklutna transmission line, 896 miles of overhead distribution lines and 828 miles of underground distribution line. We own the land on which 25 of our substations are located and a portion of the right-of-way connecting our Beluga plant to Anchorage. As part of our 1997 acquisition of 30% of the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project, we also acquired a partial interest in two substations and additional transmission facilities.
Most of Chugach’s generation sites and many of its substation sites are on Chugach-owned lands. The rights for the sites not on Chugach-owned lands are as follows: the Postmark and Point Woronzof Substations, and the East Terminal Site (North - South Runway) are authorized by the State Department of Transportation and Public Facilities, Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport; the East Terminal Site (Six Mile) is under rights from Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson; the West Terminal Site is authorized by the Matanuska-Susitna Borough; the University Substation is on State land under rights from the Federal Bureau of Land Management; the Hope and Daves Creek Substations are authorized by the State; the Portage Substation has a permit from the Alaska Railroad Corporation (ARRC); the Summit Lake Substation is on land recently conveyed to the Kenai Peninsula Borough (permit pending) and a permit from the United States Forest Service; the Dowling and Raspberry Substations are on Municipality of Anchorage land under rights from the State; and, the Indian Substation is authorized by FERC License, until a permit is issued by Chugach State Park. The Cooper Lake Power Plant, Quartz Creek Substation, and the 69kV transmission line between them are operated under the FERC License. Most of Chugach’s transmission, sub-transmission and distribution lines are either on public lands under rights from federal, state, municipal, borough agencies, ARRC, or on private lands via easements.
Title
On January 20, 2011, Chugach and the indenture trustee entered into the Indenture, granting a lien on substantially all of Chugach’s assets to secure Chugach’s long-term debt. Assets that are generally not subject to the lien of the Indenture include cash (other than cash deposited with the indenture trustee); instruments and securities; patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual property; vehicles and other movable equipment; inventory and consumable materials and supplies; office furniture, equipment and supplies; computer equipment and software; office leases; other leasehold interests for an original term of less than five years; contracts (other than power sales agreements with members having an original term exceeding three years, certain contracts specifically identified in the Indenture, and other contracts relating to the ownership, operation or maintenance of generation, transmission or distribution facilities); non-assignable permits, licenses and other contract rights; timber and minerals separated from land; electricity, gas, steam, water and other products generated, produced or purchased; other property in which a security interest cannot legally be perfected by the filing of a Uniform Commercial Code financing statement, and certain parcels of real property specifically excepted from the lien of the Indenture. The lien of the Indenture may be subject to various permitted encumbrances that include matters existing on the date of the Indenture or the date on which property is later acquired; reservations in United States patents; non-delinquent or contested taxes, assessments and contractors’ liens; and various leases, rights-of-way, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, reservations, licenses and permits that do not materially impair Chugach’s use of the mortgaged property in the conduct of Chugach’s business.
			
		
Many of Chugach’s properties are burdened by easements, plat restrictions, mineral reservation, water rights and similar title exceptions common to the area or customarily reserved in conveyances from federal or state governmental entities, and by additional minor title encumbrances and defects. We do not believe that any of these title defects will materially impair the use of our properties in the operation of our business.
Under the Alaska Electric and Telephone Cooperative Act, we possess the power of eminent domain for the purpose and in the manner provided by Alaska condemnation laws for acquiring private property for public use.
Other Property
Bradley Lake
We are a participant in the Bradley Lake Hydroelectric Project, which is a 120 MW rated capacity hydroelectric facility near Homer on the southern end of the Kenai Peninsula that was placed into service in September 1991. The project is nominally scheduled below 90 MW to minimize losses and ensure system stability. We have a 30.4% (27.4 MW as currently operated) share in the Bradley Lake project’s output, and currently take Seward’s share which we net bill to them, for a total of 31.4% of the project’s capacity. We are obligated to pay 30.4% of the annual project costs regardless of project output.
The project was financed and built by AEA through grants from the State of Alaska and the issuance of $166.0 million principal amount of revenue bonds supported by power sales agreements with six electric utilities that share the output from the facility (ML&P, HEA and MEA (through Alaska Electric Generation & Transmission Cooperative, Inc. (AEG&T) and Alaska Electric and Energy Cooperative, Inc. (AEEC)), GVEA, Seward and us). The participating utilities have entered into take-or-pay power sales agreements under which AEA has sold percentage shares of the project capacity and the utilities have agreed to pay a like-percentage of annual costs of the project (including ownership, operation and maintenance costs, debt-service costs and amounts required to maintain established reserves). By contract, we also provide transmission and related services to all of the participants in the Bradley Lake project.
The term of our Bradley Lake power sales agreement is 50 years from the date of commercial operation of the facility (September 1991) or when the revenue bond principal is repaid, whichever is longer. The agreement may be renewed for successive 40-year periods or for the useful life of the project, whichever is shorter. We believe that so long as this project produces power taken by us for our use that this expense will be recoverable through the fuel and purchased power adjustment process. The share of Bradley Lake indebtedness for which we are responsible is approximately $16.3 million. Upon the default of a participant, and subject to certain other conditions, AEA is entitled to increase each participant’s share of costs and output pro rata, to the extent necessary to compensate for the failure of the defaulting participant to pay its share, provided that no participant’s percentage share is increased by more than 25%. Upon default, Chugach could be faced with annual expenditures of approximately $6.0 million as a result of Chugach’s Bradley Lake take-or-pay obligations.
The Battle Creek Diversion Project (Project) is a project to increase water available for generation by constructing a diversion on the West Fork of Upper Battle Creek to divert flows to Bradley Lake, increasing annual energy output by an estimated 37,000 MWh. The Bradley Lake Project Management Committee (BPMC) approved the project October 13, 2017, as amended December 1,
			
		
2017, and December 6, 2017. The Project cost is estimated at $47.0 million and the BMPC approved financing in this amount on December 6, 2017. The project is estimated to begin in the Spring of 2018 with an estimated completion date of 2020. Not all Bradley Lake purchasers are participating in the development and resulting benefits of the Project at this time, although they have preserved their ability to participate in the Project at a later date. Chugach would be entitled to 39.38% of the additional energy produced if no additional participants elect to join.
Eklutna
Along with two other utilities, Chugach purchased the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project from the Federal Government in 1997. Ownership was transferred from the DOE’s Alaska Power Administration jointly to Chugach (30%), MEA (17%) and ML&P (53%). Through April 30, 2015, the power MEA purchased from the Eklutna Hydroelectric Project was pooled with Chugach’s purchases and sold back to MEA to be used to meet MEA’s overall power requirements.
Beluga River Unit (BRU)
On April 22, 2016, Chugach commenced receiving gas from the BRU as a Working Interest Owner (WIO) of the gas production field. Chugach acquired a 10% working interest in the BRU by jointly purchasing, in partnership with ML&P, ConocoPhillips’ 1/3 Working Interest Ownership of the BRU. In 2017 Chugach received 1.4 Bcf from the BRU field at the field’s delivery meter as a WIO. Of that gas volume received Chugach allocated gas deliveries of 875 MMcf to the ConocoPhillips-ENSTAR contract (average price of $7.57 per Mcf) and retained 506 MMcf for Chugach native use in thermal generation, which had a weighted average transfer price of $4.64 per Mcf.
Fuel Supply
In 2017, 81% of our power was generated from natural gas. Total gas purchased and produced in 2017 was approximately 9.3 Bcf. All of the production came from Cook Inlet, Alaska. The contract with Hilcorp provided 89%, Furie provided 5%, Chugach’s 10% share of the Beluga River Unit gas field provided 5%, and the balance from minor purchases from AIX and CIE. Of the 9.3 Bcf of gas purchased and produced, 0.9 Bcf was sold to ENSTAR as part of an existing ConocoPhillips-ENSTAR gas contract that was assumed with Chugach’s share of the BRU acquisition. The current gas contract with Hilcorp began providing gas in 2011 and will expire March 31, 2023. The BRU and Hilcorp, together, fill 100% of Chugach’s firm needs through March 31, 2023. The gas contract with Furie currently provides Chugach with additional purchase options, on a firm and interruptible basis, and will provide both firm and non-firm gas supplies beginning on April 1, 2023 and ending March 31, 2033.
Hilcorp
Chugach entered into a contract with Hilcorp to provide gas beginning January 1, 2015, and through multiple amendments, now extends through March 31, 2023. The total amount of gas under contract is currently estimated to be 60 Bcf. Pricing for the 2017 term of the Hilcorp contract was set at $7.73 per Mcf.
Furie Agreement
On March 16, 2017, Chugach submitted a request to the RCA for approval of the agreement entitled, “Firm and Interruptible Gas Sale and Purchase Agreement between Furie Operating Alaska, LLC and Chugach Electric Association, Inc.” (Furie Agreement) dated March 3, 2017. As
			
		
part of the filing, Chugach requested RCA approval to recover both firm and interruptible purchases under the agreement and all attendant transportation and storage costs through its quarterly fuel and purchased power cost adjustment process.
The Furie Agreement provides Chugach with both firm and non-firm gas supplies over a 16-year period, with firm purchases beginning on April 1, 2023, and ending March 31, 2033, and interruptible gas purchases available to Chugach immediately and ending on March 31, 2033. With respect to firm purchases beginning on April 1, 2023, and ending on March 31, 2033, the Furie Agreement provides an annual gas commitment by Furie to sell and Chugach to purchase approximately 1.8 Bcf of gas each year, which represents approximately 20% to 25% of Chugach’s projected gas requirements during this period. The Furie Agreement also provides Chugach with additional purchase options, on a firm and interruptible basis. The initial price for firm gas is $7.16 per Mcf beginning April 1, 2023 and escalates annually rising to $7.98 per Mcf on April 1, 2032, the last year of the Furie Agreement.
On May 1, 2017, the RCA approved the Furie Agreement. The RCA also approved recovery of costs associated with the Furie Agreement through its fuel and purchased power cost adjustment process.
Cook Inlet Energy, LLC
Chugach entered into a Gas Sale and Purchase Agreement (GSPA) with CIE in 2013, to supply gas from April 1, 2014, through March 31, 2018, with an option to extend for an additional five years by mutual agreement during the term of the GSPA. In an extension letter agreement dated February 17, 2017, both parties agreed to extend the term of the agreement until March 31, 2023. The GSPA with CIE provides Chugach with an opportunity to diversify its gas supply portfolio, and minimize its current dependence on the gas agreements in place with two vendors. The gas that may be purchased under the GSPA with CIE is not required, however it introduces a new pricing mechanism.
The GSPA identifies and defines two types of gas purchases. Base Gas is defined by the volume of gas purchased on a firm or interruptible basis at an agreed delivery rate. Pricing for base gas purchases ranges from $6.12 to $7.31 per Mcf. Swing Gas is gas sold to Chugach at a delivery rate in excess of the applicable Base Gas agreed delivery rate. Pricing for swing gas purchases ranges from $7.65 to $9.14 per Mcf.
AIX Energy, LLC
Chugach entered into a contract with AIX Energy, LLC (AIX) in 2014, to supply gas from March 1, 2015, through February 29, 2016. This agreement caps the price of gas at $6.24 per Mcf and the total volume at 300,000 Mcf. In anticipation of this agreement’s expiration, Chugach entered into another gas sale and purchase agreement with AIX in November of 2015, to provide gas beginning April 1, 2016, through March 31, 2023, with the option to extend to March 31, 2029. The AIX agreements provide flexibility in both the purchase price and volumes and allow Chugach to further diversify its gas supply portfolio, with no minimum purchase requirements.
			
		
Municipality of Anchorage, dba Municipal Light and Power
Chugach entered into a contract with Municipality of Anchorage, DBA Municipal Light and Power (ML&P) in 2016, to supply gas beginning June 6, 2016, and expiring March 31, 2017. This agreement capped the price of gas at $5.75 per Mcf and the total volume at 500,000 Mcf. The ML&P agreement provided Chugach the ability to further diversify its gas supply portfolio, with no minimum purchase requirements.
Natural Gas Transportation Contracts
The terms of the ML&P and Hilcorp agreements require Chugach to transport gas. Chugach took over the transportation obligation for natural gas shipments for gas supplied under its contracts on October 1, 2010. The following information summarizes the transportation obligations for Chugach:
ENSTAR (Alaska Pipeline Company)
ENSTAR Natural Gas Company (ENSTAR) has a tariff to transport our gas purchased from gas suppliers on a firm basis to our IGT Power Plant and SPP.
Chugach and ENSTAR entered into a Firm Transportation Service Agreement on May 21, 2012, to provide for the transportation of gas to SPP. The agreement commenced on August 1, 2012, and remains in effect until canceled upon a 12-month written notice by either party. The agreement sets a contracted peak demand of 36,300 Mcf per day.
Harvest Alaska, LLC Pipeline System
Hilcorp now operates four major gas pipelines through Harvest Alaska, LLC, in the Cook Inlet basin, including the Kenai-Nikiski Pipeline (KNPL), the Beluga Pipeline (BPL), the Cook Inlet Gas Gathering System (CIGGS) and the Kenai-Kachemak Pipeline (KKPL).
On November 1, 2014, the RCA approved consolidation of these four pipelines into a single pipeline, the KBPL. Chugach has entered into tariff agreements to ship gas on the KBPL.
Environmental Matters
Chugach’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which seek to limit air, water and other pollution and regulate hazardous or toxic waste disposal. While we monitor these laws and regulations to ensure compliance, they frequently change and often become more restrictive. When this occurs, the costs of our compliance generally increase.
We include costs associated with environmental compliance in both our operating and capital budgets. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when those costs are probable and reasonably estimable. We do not anticipate that environmental related expenditures will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot, however, predict the nature, extent or cost of new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters.
Since January 1, 2007, transformer manufacturers have been required to meet the DOE efficiency levels as defined by the Energy Act for all “Distribution Transformers.” As of January 1, 2016, the specific efficiency levels increased from the original “TP1” levels to the new “DOE-2016” levels.
			
		
All new transformers are DOE-2016 compliant. A small increase in capital costs is anticipated along with a reduction in energy losses.
The Clean Air Act and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the Clean Air Act establish ambient air quality standards and limit the emission of many air pollutants. New Clean Air Act regulations impacting electric utilities may result from future events or new regulatory programs. On August 3, 2015, the EPA released the final 111(d) regulation language aimed at reducing emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from existing power plants that provide electricity for utility customers. In the final rule, the EPA took the approach of making individual states responsible for the development and implementation of plans to reduce the rate of CO2 emissions from the power sector. The EPA initially applied the final rule to 47 of the contiguous states. At this time, Alaska, Hawaii, Vermont, Washington District of Columbia (D.C.) and two U.S. territories are not bound by the regulation. Alaska may be required to comply at some future date. On February 9, 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay on the proposed EPA 111(d) regulations until the D.C. Circuit decides the case, or until the disposition of a petition to the Supreme Court on the issue. On September 27, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit heard oral arguments challenging the legality of the Clean Power Plan. While awaiting the court decision, an Executive Order promoting energy independence and economic growth was issued March 28, 2017, by the President instructing the EPA to review the Clean Power Plan. The EPA is directed to review the Clean Power Plan rule and either revise or withdraw the proposed rule. On October 10, 2017, the EPA initiated a Proposed Repeal of the Clean Power Plan. The EPA 111(d) regulation, in its current form, is not expected to have a material effect on Chugach’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. While Chugach cannot predict the implementation of any additional new law or regulation, or the limitations thereof, it is possible that new laws or regulations could increase capital and operating costs. Chugach has obtained or applied for all Clean Air Act permits currently required for the operation of generating facilities.
Chugach is subject to numerous other environmental statutes including the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and to the regulations implementing these statutes. Chugach does not believe that compliance with these statutes and regulations to date has had a material impact on its financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. However, the implementation of any additional new law or regulation, or the limitations thereof, or changes in or new interpretations of laws or regulations could result in significant additional capital or operating expenses. Chugach monitors proposed new regulations and existing regulation changes through industry associations and professional organizations.
Item 3