Item 2. Properties
The net profits interests are the principal asset of the trust. The trustee cannot acquire any other asset, with the exception of certain short-term investments as specified under Item 1, Business. The trustee is prohibited from selling any portion of the net profits interests unless approved by at least 80% of the unitholders or at such time as trust gross revenue is less than $1 million for two successive years.
The net profits interests comprise:
the 90% net profits interests which are carved from:
a) producing royalty and overriding royalty interest properties in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, and
b) 11.11% nonparticipating royalty interests in nonproducing properties located primarily in Texas and Oklahoma; and
the 75% net profits interests which are carved from working interests in four properties in Texas and three properties in Oklahoma.
All underlying royalties, underlying nonproducing royalties and underlying working interest properties are currently owned by XTO Energy. XTO Energy may sell all or any portion of the underlying properties at any time, subject to and burdened by the net profits interests.
The underlying properties include over 2,900 producing properties with established production histories in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. The average reserve-to-production index for the underlying properties as of December 31, 2010 is approximately 12 years. This index is calculated using total proved reserves and estimated 2011 production for the underlying properties. The projected 2011 production is from proved developed producing reserves as of December 31, 2010. Based on estimated future net cash flows at 12-month average oil and gas prices, based on the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period, the proved reserves of the underlying properties are approximately 37% oil and 63% natural gas. The underlying properties also include certain nonproducing properties in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico that are primarily mineral interests.
Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling
90% Net Profits Interests Underlying Royalties. Royalty and overriding royalty properties underlying the 90% net profits interests represent 79% of the discounted future net cash flows from trust proved reserves at December 31, 2010. Approximately 78% of the discounted future net cash flows from the 90% net profits interests is from gas reserves, totaling 24.8 Bcf. Oil reserves allocated to the 90% net profits interests are primarily located in West Texas and are estimated to be 503,000 Bbls at December 31, 2010.
The underlying royalties are royalty and overriding royalty interests primarily located in mature producing oil and gas fields. The most significant producing region in which the underlying royalties are located is the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. The San Juan Basin royalties gas production accounted for approximately 79% of the trust’s gas sales volumes and 46% of the net profits income for 2010. The trust’s estimated proved gas reserves from this region totaled 20.1 Bcf at December 31, 2010, or approximately 81% of trust total gas reserves at that date. XTO Energy estimates that underlying royalties in the San Juan Basin include more than 4,628 gross (approximately 47.7 net) wells, covering almost 60,000 gross acres. Approximately half of these wells are operated by BP America Production Company or ConocoPhillips. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Dakota, Mesaverde and Pictured Cliffs formations.
Most of the trust’s San Juan Basin gas has been approved for increased density drilling. In 1999, the Mesaverde was approved for increased density drilling, and in 2002 the Fruitland Coal was approved for increased density drilling, which doubled the number of drill wells allowed per spacing unit. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that the trust has received net proceeds from additional development wells in recent years and that it believes operators will continue to pursue increased density drilling, but the potential effect on the trust is unknown.
Eastward pipeline capacity was added in the San Juan Basin in the recent past, reducing the dependence of this gas on California markets and effectively increasing San Juan Basin gas prices in relation to prices from other regions. Gas-powered electricity generation is increasing in the southwest, and future pipelines are being discussed.
The underlying royalties also include royalties in the Sand Hills field of Crane County, Texas. Most of these properties are operated by major operators. The Sand Hills field was discovered in 1931 and includes production from three main intervals, the Tubb, McKnight and Judkins. Development potential for the field includes recompletions and additional infill drilling.
The underlying royalties contain approximately 220,286 gross (approximately 32,183 net) producing acres. Well counts for the underlying royalties cannot be provided because information regarding the number of wells on royalty properties is generally not made available to royalty interest owners.
Because the properties related to the 90% net profits interests are primarily royalty interests and overriding royalty interests, net profits income from these properties is not reduced by production expense or development costs. Additionally, net profits income from these interests cannot be reduced by any excess costs of the 75% net profits interests. The trust, therefore, should generally receive monthly net profits income from these interests, as determined by oil and gas sales volumes and prices.
75% Net Profits Interests Underlying Working Interest Properties. Underlying the 75% net profits interests are working interests in seven large, predominantly oil-producing properties in Texas and Oklahoma operated primarily by established oil companies. These properties are located in mature fields undergoing secondary or tertiary recovery operations. Most of the oil produced from the 75% net profits interest properties is sour oil, which is sold at a decrement to NYMEX sweet crude oil prices. XTO Energy is the operator of the Penwell Unit, which is one of the properties underlying the Texas 75% net profits interests and ExxonMobil is the operator of the Hewitt Unit, which is one of the properties underlying the Oklahoma 75% net profits interests. With the exception of the Penwell Unit and Hewitt Unit, XTO Energy and ExxonMobil generally have little influence or control over operations on any of these properties.
Proved reserves from the 75% net profits interests are almost entirely oil, estimated to be approximately 561,000 Bbls at year-end 2010. Proved reserves from these interests represent 21% of the discounted future net cash flows of the trust’s proved reserves at December 31, 2010.
The underlying working interest properties are detailed below:
The underlying working interest properties consist of 3,813 gross (3,046 net) producing acres. As of December 31, 2010, there were 1,430 gross (61.5 net) productive oil wells and no wells in process of drilling on these properties. There were no wells drilled in 2010 and 2009, as compared with three gross (0.3 net) wells drilled in 2008.
Because these underlying properties are working interests, production expense and development costs are deducted in calculating net profits income from the 75% net profits interests. As a result, net profits income from these interests is affected by the level of maintenance and development activity on these underlying properties. Net profits income is also dependent upon oil and gas sales volumes and prices and is subject to reduction for any prior period excess costs.
Total 2010 development costs were $539,048 down 10% from 2009 development costs of $601,502. Development costs were lower in 2010 because of decreased development activity related to Texas and Oklahoma properties underlying the 75% net profits interest. January and February 2011 development costs totaled approximately $141,000, primarily incurred in fourth quarter 2010.
As reported to XTO Energy by unit operators in February of each year, budgeted development costs were $585,000 for 2010 and $756,000 for 2009. Actual development costs often differ from amounts budgeted because of changes in product prices and other factors that may affect the timing or selection of projects. Also, costs are deducted in the calculation of trust net profits income several months after they are incurred by the operator. Unit operators have reported total budgeted costs, net to the underlying properties, of approximately $907,000 for 2011 and $881,000 for 2012.
Costs exceeded revenues on properties underlying the Texas working interest for January through April 2009 and on properties underlying the Oklahoma working interest for February through April 2009. There were no excess costs in 2008 or 2010. For information regarding the effect of excess costs on trust net profits income, see Trustee’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Item 7.
Estimated Proved Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
The following are proved reserves of the underlying properties, as estimated by independent engineers, and proved reserves and future net cash flows from proved reserves of the net profits interests, based on an allocation of these reserves, at December 31, 2010:
(a) Based on 12-month average oil price of $73.20 per Bbl and $5.42 per Mcf for gas, based on the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period. Discounted estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves increased 38% from year-end 2009 to 2010, primarily because of a 36% increase in oil prices and a 33% increase in natural gas prices.
(b) Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserves. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
(c) Before income taxes since future net cash flows are not subject to taxation at the trust level. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%.
Proved reserves consist of the following:
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and is performed by XTO Energy. As a result, XTO Energy has developed internal policies and controls for estimating and recording reserves. XTO Energy’s policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. XTO Energy’s policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to its reserve engineering group and require that reserve estimates be made by qualified reserves estimators, as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. All qualified reserves estimators are required to receive education covering the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.
The XTO Energy reserve engineering group reviews reserve estimates with our third-party petroleum consultants, Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers. Miller and Lents, Ltd. estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties as of December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Miller and Lents’ primary technical person responsible for calculating the trust’s reserves has more than 30 years of experience as a reserve engineer. The estimated reserves for the underlying properties are then used by XTO Energy to calculate the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the net profits interests. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of these reserves may be substantially different from the original estimates.
Reserve quantities and revenues for the net profits interests were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined interests of the trust and XTO Energy in the subject properties. Since the trust has defined net profits interests, the trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserve quantities. Accordingly, reserves allocated to the trust pertaining to its 75% net profits interests in the working interest properties have effectively been reduced to reflect recovery of the trust’s 75% portion of applicable production and development costs. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
Trust production is recognized in the period net profits income is received, which is the month following receipt by XTO Energy, and generally two months after the time of oil production and three months after gas production. Oil and gas production and average sales prices attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interests for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010 were as follows:
Oil and gas production by conveyance attributable to the underlying properties for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010 were as follows:
Nonproducing Acreage
The underlying nonproducing royalties contain approximately 240,000 gross (approximately 30,000 net) acres in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico which were nonproducing at the date of the trust’s creation. The trust
is entitled to 10% of oil and gas production attributable to the underlying mineral interests, but is not entitled to delay rental payments or lease bonuses. There has been no significant development of such nonproducing acreage since the trust’s creation.
Pricing and Sales Information
Oil and gas are generally sold from the underlying properties at market-sensitive prices. The majority of sales from the underlying working interest properties are to major oil and gas companies. Information about purchasers of oil and gas from royalty properties is generally not provided by operators to XTO Energy as a royalty owner, or to the trust.
Regulation
Natural Gas Regulation
The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including transportation and storage rates charged, tariffs, and various other matters, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas terminated on January 1, 1993. While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. On August 8, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, among other things, amended the Natural Gas Act to prohibit market manipulation by any entity, to direct FERC to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce, and to significantly increase the penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Act of 1978, or FERC rules, regulations or orders thereunder. FERC has promulgated regulations to implement the Energy Policy Act, including enforcement rules and new annual reporting requirements for certain sellers of natural gas. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties.
Federal Regulation of Oil
Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The net price received from the sale of these products is affected by market transportation costs. Under rules adopted by FERC effective January 1995, interstate oil pipelines can change rates based on an inflation index, though other rate mechanisms may be used in specific circumstances.
On December 19, 2007, the President signed into law the Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007 (PL 110-140). The EISA, among other things, prohibits market manipulation by any person in connection with the purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline or petroleum distillates at wholesale in contravention of such rules and regulations that the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe, directs the Federal Trade Commission to enforce the regulations, and establishes penalties for violations thereunder. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it cannot predict the impact of future government regulation on any crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids facilities, sales or transportation transactions.
Environmental Regulation
Companies that are engaged in the oil and gas industry are affected by federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Those laws may impact operations of the underlying properties. No material expenses have been incurred on the underlying properties in complying with environmental laws and regulations. XTO Energy does not expect that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on the trust.
There is an increased focus by local, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change. Several states have adopted climate change legislation and regulations, and various other regulatory bodies have announced their intent to regulate GHG emissions or adopt climate change regulations. As these regulations are under development, XTO Energy is unable to predict the total impact of the potential regulations upon the operators of the underlying properties, and it is possible that the operators of the underlying properties could face increases in operating costs in order to comply with climate change or GHG emissions legislation, which costs could reduce net proceeds payable to the trust and trust distributions.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
State Tax Withholding
Several states have enacted legislation to require state income tax withholding from nonresident recipients of oil and gas proceeds. After consultation with its state tax counsel, XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it believes the trust is not subject to these withholding requirements. However, regulations are subject to change by the various states, which could change the conclusion. Should the trust be required to withhold state taxes, distributions to the unitholders would be reduced by the required amount, subject to the unitholder’s right to file a state tax return to claim any refund due.
In May 2006, the State of Texas modified its franchise tax to impose a “margin tax” of up to 1% on revenues less certain costs, as specified in the legislation, generated from Texas activities beginning in 2007. Entities subject to the tax generally include trusts, unless otherwise exempt, and various other types of entities. Trusts that meet statutory requirements are generally exempt from the margin tax as “passive entities.” The trust has been advised by Texas tax counsel that the trust is exempt from margin tax as a passive entity. However, each unitholder that is a business entity or limited liability entity subject to the margin tax is generally required to include its share of the trust’s revenues in its “margin tax” computation.
Unitholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the requirements for filing state tax returns.
Other Regulation
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and laws relating to environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it does not believe that compliance with these laws will have any material adverse effect upon the unitholders.
Item 3.