Item 2. Properties
The net profits interests are the principal asset of the trust. The trustee cannot acquire any other asset, with the exception of certain short-term investments as specified under Item 1, Business. The trustee is prohibited from selling any portion of the net profits interests unless approved by holders of at least 80% or more of the outstanding trust units or at such time as trust gross revenue is less than $1 million for two successive years.
The net profits interests comprise:
•
the 90% net profits interests which are carved from:
a) producing royalty and overriding royalty interest properties in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, and
b) 11.11% nonparticipating royalty interests in nonproducing properties located primarily in Texas and Oklahoma; and
•
the 75% net profits interests which are carved from working interests in four properties in Texas and three properties in Oklahoma.
All underlying royalties, underlying nonproducing royalties and underlying working interest properties are currently owned by XTO Energy. XTO Energy may sell all or any portion of the underlying properties at any time, subject to and burdened by the net profits interests.
The underlying properties include over 2,900 producing properties with established production histories in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. The average reserve-to-production index for the underlying properties as of December 31, 2015 is approximately 10 years. This index is calculated using total proved reserves and estimated 2016 production for the underlying properties. The projected 2016 production is from proved developed producing reserves as of December 31, 2015. Based on estimated future net cash flows at 12-month average oil and gas prices, based on the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period, the proved reserves of the underlying properties are approximately 34% oil and 66% natural gas. The underlying properties also include certain nonproducing properties in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico that are primarily mineral interests.
Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling
90% Net Profits Interests Underlying Royalties. Royalty and overriding royalty properties underlying the 90% net profits interests represent 94% of the discounted future net cash flows from trust proved reserves at December 31, 2015. Approximately 69% of the discounted future net cash flows from the 90% net profits interests are from gas reserves, totaling 16.4 Bcf. Oil reserves allocated to the 90% net profits interests are primarily located in West Texas and are estimated to be 428,000 Bbls at December 31, 2015.
The underlying royalties are royalty and overriding royalty interests primarily located in mature producing oil and gas fields. The most significant producing region in which the underlying royalties are located is the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. The San Juan Basin royalties gas production accounted for approximately 64% of the Trust’s gas sales volumes and 33% of the net profits income for 2015. The trust’s estimated proved gas reserves from this region totaled 13.5 Bcf at December 31, 2015, or approximately 82% of trust total gas reserves at that date. XTO Energy estimates that underlying royalties in the San Juan Basin include more than 4,854 gross (approximately 46.9 net) wells, covering almost 60,000 gross acres. Approximately half of these wells are operated by BP America Production Company or ConocoPhillips.
San Juan Basin oil and gas accumulations, inclusive of the Fruitland Coal, Pictured Cliffs, Mancos, Mesaverde, and Dakota formations, have produced within the basin for over 90 years. Although these reservoirs have seen almost a century of development, numerous upside opportunities are still available to basin operators via down-spacing drilling, recompletions, lateral drilling, and lease cost optimizations. Recently, operators have moved development toward the more liquid-rich portions of the basin through the following:
•
reduced dry gas drilling with a shift toward horizontal drilling in the more liquids-rich areas
•
lease optimization via compression upgrades, restimulations, and improved artificial lift
•
basinal work to rail crude oil out of basin to improve pricing
•
stable gas pipeline infrastructure
The underlying royalties also include royalties in the Sand Hills field of Crane County, Texas. Most of these properties are operated by major operators. The Sand Hills field was discovered in 1931 and includes production from three main intervals, the Tubb, McKnight and Judkins. Development potential for the field includes recompletions and additional infill drilling.
The underlying royalties contain approximately 208,720 gross (approximately 38,971 net) producing acres. Well counts for the underlying royalties cannot be provided because information regarding the number of wells on royalty properties is generally not made available to royalty interest owners.
Because the properties related to the 90% net profits interests are primarily royalty interests and overriding royalty interests, net profits income from these properties is not reduced by production expense or development costs. Additionally, net profits income from these interests cannot be reduced by any excess costs of the 75% net profits interests. The trust, therefore, should generally receive monthly net profits income from these interests, as determined by oil and gas sales volumes and prices.
75% Net Profits Interests Underlying Working Interest Properties. Underlying the 75% net profits interests are working interests in seven large, predominantly oil-producing properties in Texas and Oklahoma operated primarily by established oil companies. These properties are located in mature fields undergoing secondary or tertiary recovery operations. Most of the oil produced from the 75% net profits interest properties is sour oil, which is sold at a decrement to NYMEX sweet crude oil prices. XTO Energy is the operator of the Hewitt Unit, which is one of the properties underlying the Oklahoma 75% net profits interests. With the exception of the Hewitt Unit, XTO Energy and ExxonMobil generally have little influence or control over operations on any of these properties.
Proved reserves from the 75% net profits interests are almost entirely oil, estimated to be approximately 55,000 Bbls at year-end 2015. Proved reserves from these interests represent 6% of the discounted future net cash flows of the trust’s proved reserves at December 31, 2015.
The underlying working interest properties are detailed below:
The underlying working interest properties consist of 3,814 gross (2,995 net) producing acres. As of December 31, 2015, there were 1,468 gross (73.0 net) productive oil wells and no wells in process of drilling on these properties. There were 12 gross (1.0 net) wells drilled in 2015, 5 gross (0.3 net) wells drilled in 2014 and 11 gross (1.0 net) wells drilled in 2013.
Because these underlying properties are working interests, production expense and development costs are deducted in calculating net profits income from the 75% net profits interests. As a result, net profits income from these interests is affected by the level of maintenance and development activity on these underlying properties. Net profits income is also dependent upon oil and gas sales volumes and prices and is subject to reduction for any prior period excess costs.
Total 2015 development costs were $2,697,664, down 20% from 2014 development costs of $3,373,537. Development costs were lower in 2015 because of decreased development activity and costs related to non-operated Texas and Oklahoma oil properties underlying the 75% net profits interest. January and February 2016 development costs totaled approximately $294,000, primarily incurred in fourth quarter 2015.
As reported to XTO Energy by unit operators in February of each year, budgeted development costs were $4.4 million for 2015 and $2.4 million for 2014. Actual development costs often differ from amounts budgeted because of changes in product prices and other factors that may affect the timing or selection of projects. Also, costs are deducted in the calculation of trust net profits income several months after they are incurred by the operator. Unit operators have reported total budgeted costs, net to the underlying properties, of approximately $1.0 million for 2016 and $1.1 million for 2017. Changes in oil or natural gas prices could impact future development plans on the underlying properties.
Costs exceeded revenues on properties underlying the Texas working interest in January 2015 through July 2015, September 2015 through December 2015, January 2014, November 2014, January 2013, March 2013 and April 2013, and on properties underlying the Oklahoma working interest in March 2015 through July 2015, September 2015 through December 2015 and June 2014. Remaining cumulative excess costs totaled $2,026,071 ($1,519,553 net to the trust) for the period ended December 31, 2015. For information regarding the effect of excess costs on trust net profits income, see Trustee’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under Item 7.
Estimated Proved Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
The following are proved reserves of the underlying properties, as estimated by independent engineers, and proved reserves and future net cash flows from proved reserves of the net profits interests, based on an allocation of these reserves, at December 31, 2015:
(a) Based on 12-month average oil price of $46.58 per Bbl and $2.83 per Mcf for gas, based on the first-day-of-the-month price for each month in the period. Discounted estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves decreased 65% from year-end 2014 to 2015, primarily because of a 51% decrease in natural gas prices, a 47% decrease in oil prices, reserve revisions due to lower prices and 2015 production.
(b) Since the Trust has defined net profits interests, the Trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserves. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
(c) Before income taxes since future net cash flows are not subject to taxation at the Trust level. Future net cash flows are discounted at an annual rate of 10%.
When crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in late 2015 and early 2016 for an extended period of time, under the SEC definition of proved reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas may no longer qualify as proved reserves.
Proved reserves consist of the following:
The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and is performed by XTO Energy. As a result, XTO Energy has developed internal policies and controls for estimating and recording reserves. XTO Energy’s policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. XTO Energy’s policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to its reserve engineering group and require that reserve estimates be made by qualified reserves estimators, as
defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. All qualified reserves estimators are required to receive education covering the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.
The XTO Energy reserve engineering group reviews reserve estimates with our third-party petroleum consultants, Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers. Miller and Lents, Ltd. estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the underlying properties as of December 31, 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Miller and Lents’ primary technical person responsible for calculating the trust’s reserves has more than 40 years of experience as a reserve engineer. The estimated reserves for the underlying properties are then used by XTO Energy to calculate the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the net profits interests. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating reserve volumes and values, and such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered and the timing of production of these reserves may be substantially different from the original estimates.
Reserve quantities and revenues for the net profits interests were estimated from projections of reserves and revenues attributable to the combined interests of the Trust and XTO Energy in the subject properties. Since the Trust has defined net profits interests, the Trust does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserve quantities. Accordingly, reserves allocated to the Trust pertaining to its 75% net profits interests in the working interest properties have effectively been reduced to reflect recovery of the trust’s 75% portion of applicable production and development costs. Because trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, any fluctuations in actual or assumed prices or costs will result in revisions to the estimated reserve quantities allocated to the net profits interests.
When crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in late 2015 and early 2016 for an extended period of time, under the SEC definition of proved reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas may no longer qualify as proved reserves. Amounts required to be de-booked as proved reserves on an SEC basis are subject to being re-booked as proved reserves at some point in the future when price levels recover.
Oil and Natural Gas Production
Trust production is recognized in the period net profits income is received, which is the month following receipt by XTO Energy, and generally two months after the time of oil production and three months after gas production. Oil and gas production and average sales prices attributable to the underlying properties and the net profits interests for each of the three years ended December 31 were as follows:
Oil and gas production by conveyance attributable to the underlying properties for each of the three years ended December 31 were as follows:
Nonproducing Acreage
The underlying nonproducing royalties contain approximately 300,000 gross (approximately 25,000 net) acres in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico which were nonproducing at the date of the trust’s creation. The Trust is entitled to 10% of oil and gas production attributable to the underlying mineral interests, but is not entitled to delay rental payments or lease bonuses. There has been no significant development of such nonproducing acreage since the trust’s creation.
Pricing and Sales Information
Oil and gas are generally sold from the underlying properties at market-sensitive prices. The majority of sales from the underlying working interest properties are to major oil and gas companies. Information about purchasers of oil and gas from royalty properties is generally not provided by operators to XTO Energy as a royalty owner, or to the trust.
Regulation
Natural Gas Regulation
The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including transportation and storage rates charged, tariffs, and various other matters, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal price controls on wellhead sales of domestic natural gas terminated on January 1, 1993. While natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. On August 8, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, among other things, amended the Natural Gas Act to prohibit market manipulation by any entity, to direct FERC to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce, and to significantly increase the penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Act of 1978, or FERC rules, regulations or orders thereunder. FERC has promulgated regulations to implement the Energy Policy Act, including enforcement rules and new annual reporting requirements for certain sellers of natural gas. It is impossible to predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties.
Federal Regulation of Oil
Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The net price received from the sale of these products is affected by market transportation costs. Under rules adopted by FERC effective January 1995, interstate oil pipelines can change rates based on an inflation index, though other rate mechanisms may be used in specific circumstances.
On December 19, 2007, the President signed into law the Energy Independence & Security Act of 2007 (PL 110-140). The EISA, among other things, prohibits market manipulation by any person in connection with the purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline or petroleum distillates at wholesale in contravention of such rules and regulations that the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe, directs the Federal Trade Commission to enforce the regulations, and establishes penalties for violations thereunder. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it cannot predict the impact of future government regulation on any crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids facilities, sales or transportation transactions.
Environmental Regulation
Companies that are engaged in the oil and gas industry are affected by federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Those laws may impact operations of the underlying properties. No material expenses have been incurred on the underlying properties in complying with environmental laws and regulations. XTO Energy does not expect that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on the trust.
There is an increased focus by local, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change. Several states have adopted climate change legislation and regulations, and various other regulatory bodies have announced their intent to regulate GHG emissions or adopt climate change regulations. As these regulations are under development, XTO Energy is unable to predict the total impact of the potential regulations upon the operators of the underlying properties, and it is possible that the operators of the underlying properties could face increases in operating costs in order to comply with climate change or GHG emissions legislation, which costs could reduce net proceeds payable to the Trust and trust distributions.
State Regulation
The various states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources. The rates of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowables from both oil and gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis, or both.
Federal Income Taxes
For federal income tax purposes, the Trust constitutes a fixed investment trust that is taxed as a grantor trust. A grantor trust is not subject to tax at the Trust level. The unitholders are considered to own the trust’s income and principal as though no trust were in existence. The income of the Trust is deemed to have been received or accrued by each unitholder at the time such income is received or accrued by the Trust and not when distributed by the trust.
Because the Trust is a grantor trust for federal tax purposes, each unitholder is taxed directly on his proportionate share of income, deductions and credits of the Trust consistent with each such unitholder’s taxable year and method of accounting and without regard to the taxable year or method of accounting employed by the trust. The income of the Trust consists primarily of a specified share of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties. During 2015, the Trust incurred administration expenses and earned interest income on funds held for distribution.
The net profits interests constitute “economic interests” in oil and gas properties for federal tax purposes. Each unitholder is entitled to amortize the cost of the units through cost depletion over the life of the net profits interests or, if
greater, through percentage depletion equal to 15 percent of gross income. Unlike cost depletion, percentage depletion is not limited to a unitholder’s depletable tax basis in the units. Rather, a unitholder is entitled to a percentage depletion deduction as long as the applicable underlying properties generate gross income. Unitholders may compute both percentage depletion and cost depletion from each property and claim the larger amount as a deduction on their income tax returns.
If a taxpayer disposes of any “Section 1254 property” (certain oil, gas, geothermal or other mineral property), and the adjusted basis of such property includes adjustments for depletion deductions under Section 611 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), the taxpayer generally must recapture the amount deducted for depletion as ordinary income (to the extent of gain realized on the disposition of the property). This depletion recapture rule applies to any disposition of property that was placed in service by the taxpayer after December 31, 1986. Detailed rules set forth in Sections 1.1254-1 through 1.1254-6 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations govern dispositions of property after March 13, 1995. The Internal Revenue Service likely will take the position that a unitholder must recapture depletion upon the disposition of a unit.
Interest and net profits income attributable to ownership of units and any gain on the sale thereof are considered portfolio income, and not income from a “passive activity,” to the extent a unitholder acquires and holds units as an investment and not in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Therefore, interest and net profits income attributable to ownership of units generally may not be offset by losses from any passive activities.
Individuals may incur expenses in connection with the acquisition or maintenance of trust units. These expenses may be deductible as “miscellaneous itemized deductions” only to the extent that such expenses exceed 2 percent of the individual’s adjusted gross income.
Under current law, the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to ordinary income of individuals is 39.6%, and the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to long-term capital gains (generally, gains from the sale or exchange of certain investment assets held for more than one year) and qualified dividends of individuals is 20%. Such marginal tax rates may be effectively increased by up to 1.2% due to the phaseout of personal exemptions and the limitations on itemized deductions. The highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to corporations is 35%, and such rate applies to both ordinary income and capital gains.
Section 1411 of the Code imposes a 3.8% Medicare tax on certain investment income earned by individuals, estates, and trusts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. For these purposes, investment income generally will include a unitholder’s allocable share of the trust’s interest and royalty income plus the gain recognized from a sale of trust units. In the case of an individual, the tax is imposed on the lesser of (i) the individual’s net investment income from all investments, or (ii) the amount by which the individual’s modified adjusted gross income exceeds specified threshold levels depending on such individual’s federal income tax filing status. In the case of an estate or trust, the tax is imposed on the lesser of (i) undistributed net investment income, or (ii) the excess adjusted gross income over the dollar amount at which the highest income tax bracket applicable to an estate or trust begins.
The difference between the per-unit taxable income for any period and the per-unit cash distributions, if any, reported for such period is attributable to (i) items that are not currently deductible, such as an increase in the cash reserve maintained by the Trust for the payment of future expenditures, (ii) the current deduction of expenses that are paid with amounts previously reserved and (iii) items that do not constitute taxable income, such as a decrease in the cash reserve maintained by the Trust and/or a return of capital. In 2015, the trustee elected to reserve amounts from monthly distributions to establish an administrative expense reserve, so the taxable income per period has frequently differed from the actual amount distributed to unitholders.
Pursuant to the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (commonly referred to as “FATCA”), distributions from the Trust to “foreign financial institutions” and certain other “non-financial foreign entities” may be subject to U.S. withholding taxes. Specifically, certain “withholdable payments” (including certain royalties, interest and other gains or income from U.S. sources) made to a foreign financial institution or non-financial foreign entity will generally be subject to the withholding tax unless the foreign financial institution or non-financial foreign entity complies with certain information reporting, withholding,
identification, certification and related requirements imposed by FATCA. Foreign financial institutions located in jurisdictions that have an intergovernmental agreement with the United States governing FATCA may be subject to different rules.
The Treasury Department issued guidance providing that the FATCA withholding rules described above generally will apply to qualifying payments made after June 30, 2014. Foreign unitholders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible implications of these withholding provisions on their investment in trust units.
Some trust units are held by middlemen, as such term is broadly defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations (and includes custodians, nominees, certain joint owners, and brokers holding an interest for a customer in street name, collectively referred to herein as “middlemen”). Therefore, the trustee considers the Trust to be a non-mortgage widely held fixed investment trust (“WHFIT”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Southwest Bank, EIN: 75-1105980, Post Office Box 962020, Fort Worth, Texas, 76162-2020, telephone number 1-855-588-7839, email address trustee@crt-crosstimbers.com, is the representative of the Trust that will provide tax information in accordance with applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the Trust as a WHFIT. Tax information is also posted by the trustee at www.crt-crosstimbers.com. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the middlemen holding trust units on behalf of unitholders, and not the trustee of the trust, are solely responsible for complying with the information reporting requirements under the U.S. Treasury Regulations with respect to such trust units, including the issuance of IRS Forms 1099 and certain written tax statements. Unitholders whose trust units are held by middlemen should consult with such middlemen regarding the information that will be reported to them by the middlemen with respect to the Trust units.
Unitholders should consult their tax advisors regarding trust tax compliance matters.
State Taxes
All revenues from the Trust are from sources within Texas, Oklahoma or New Mexico. Because it distributes all of its net income to unitholders, the Trust has not been taxed at the Trust level in New Mexico or Oklahoma. While the Trust has not owed tax, the trustee is required to file a return with Oklahoma reflecting the income and deductions of the Trust attributable to properties located in that state, along with a schedule that includes information regarding distributions to unitholders. Texas does not impose a state income tax, so no part of the trust’s income will be subject to income tax at the Trust level in Texas. Oklahoma and New Mexico tax the income of nonresidents from real property located within those states, and the Trust has been advised by counsel that those states will each tax nonresidents on income from the net profits interests located in those states. Oklahoma and New Mexico also impose a corporate income tax that may apply to unitholders organized as corporations (subject to certain exceptions for S corporations and limited liability companies, depending on their treatment for federal tax purposes).
Texas imposes a franchise tax at a rate of .75% on gross revenues less certain deductions, as specifically set forth in the Texas franchise tax statutes. Entities subject to tax generally include trusts and most other types of entities that provide limited liability protection, unless otherwise exempt. Trusts that receive at least 90% of their federal gross income from designated passive sources, including royalties from mineral properties and other non-operated mineral interest income, and do not receive more than 10% of their income from operating an active trade or business, generally are exempt from the Texas franchise tax as “passive entities.” The Trust has been and expects to continue to be exempt from Texas franchise tax as a passive entity. Because the Trust should be exempt from Texas franchise tax at the Trust level as a passive entity, each unitholder that is considered a taxable entity under the Texas franchise tax will generally be required to include its Texas portion of trust revenues in its own Texas franchise tax computation. This revenue is sourced to Texas under provisions of the Texas Administrative Code providing that such income is sourced according to the principal place of business of the trust, which is Texas.
Each unitholder should consult his or her own tax advisor regarding state tax requirements, if any, applicable to such person’s ownership of trust units.
State Tax Withholding
Several states have enacted legislation requiring state income tax withholding from nonresident recipients of oil and gas proceeds. After consultation with its tax counsel, the trustee believes that it is not required to withhold on payments
made to the unitholders. However, regulations are subject to change by the various states, which could change this conclusion. Should amounts be withheld on payments made to the Trust or the unitholders, distributions to the unitholders would be reduced by the required amount, subject to the filing of a claim for refund by the Trust or unitholders for such amount.
Other Regulation
The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and laws relating to environmental protection, occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. XTO Energy has advised the trustee that it does not believe that compliance with these laws will have any material adverse effect upon the unitholders.
Item 3.