Item 2. Risk Factors
This Form 10-K contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
General Risk Factors
HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES; PRODUCTS STILL IN DEVELOPMENT; FUTURE PROFITABILITY UNCERTAIN
Shaman was incorporated in 1989 and has experienced significant operating losses in each of our fiscal years since then. We incurred a net loss of approximately $36.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1998 and an additional non-cash expense of $1.7 million incurred in connection with the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock offering in August 1998 and Series D Convertible Preferred Stock in December 1998. As of December 31, 1998, our accumulated deficit was approximately $150.4 million. We have not generated any product sales to date.
Our pharmaceutical product candidates and compounds are still in the research and development stage and we have ceased all our pharmaceutical operations. In order to generate revenues or profits, we must outlicense these product candidates, or, with other third parties, successfully develop, test, obtain regulatory approval for and market them. It is possible that our out-licensing or product development efforts may not be successful, and that we or our licensees may not obtain required regulatory approvals. Even if our product candidates are developed and introduced, they may not be successfully marketed or may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, as licensor, we may receive a less substantial royalty revenue than had we commercialized the products ourselves.
Our botanical dietary supplement products are likewise in the development stage. In order to generate revenues or profits, we must successfully develop and market these products. Even if our products are developed and introduced, they may not be successfully marketed or may not achieve market acceptance.
DELISTING FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET
On February 1, 1999, Nasdaq informed us that our Common Stock was delisted from The Nasdaq National Market and moved to the OTC Bulletin Board effective February 2, 1999. Although our securities are included on the OTC Bulletin Board, there can be no assurance that a regular trading market for the securities will be sustained in the future. The OTC Bulletin Board is an unorganized, inter-dealer, over-the-counter market which provides significantly less liquidity than The Nasdaq Stock Market, and quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for The Nasdaq Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain. In the event the securities are not included on the OTC Bulletin Board, quotes for the securities may be included in the "pink sheets" for the over-the-counter market.
"PENNY STOCK" REGULATIONS MAY IMPOSE CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS ON MARKETABILITY
The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that is not traded on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq and that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our securities that are currently included on the OTC Bulletin Board are trading at less than $5.00 per security at any time, our securities may become subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally, such investors have assets in excess of $1,000,000 or an individual annual income exceeding $200,000, or, together with the investor's spouse, a joint income of $300,000). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require, among other things, the
delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the penny stock rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market.
CONTINUING FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS; UNCERTAINTY OF SOURCES OF ADDITIONAL FUNDING
As of December 31, 1998, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances of approximately $9.2 million. Unless we are successful in our efforts to sell or outlicense the clinical research program, our cash resources will be substantially used in satisfying our existing liabilities, and hence, we will be unable to fund the operations of our Botanicals business.
In addition, the delisting of our Common Stock from The Nasdaq National Market constituted an Optional Redemption Event (as defined in our Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock) for our Series D Preferred Stock. In connection therewith, on February 4, 1999, we issued a Control Notice (as defined in our Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock) that prevented the redemption of the Series D Preferred Stock. This Control Notice will remain in effect for as long as our securities are not listed on any of The Nasdaq National Market, The Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange. Delivery of the Control Notice had the effect of increasing the annual dividend to $180 per share and adjusting the conversion price of the Series D Preferred Stock to 80% of the amount the conversion price would otherwise be without regard to any adjustments under the Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock.
We will need to obtain additional funding through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements or from other sources to continue our research and development activities, fund operating expenses and prepare for commercialization of products. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, current stockholders may experience significant dilution. If additional funds are obtained through collaborative agreements, we may be required to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates, products or marketing territories that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Additional financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, significant reductions in spending and the delay, scaling back or elimination of one or more of our research, development, or commercialization programs may be necessary which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
DILUTION
The biopharmaceutical industry is capital intensive. In this regard we have entered into a number of financings, many of which have included securities that are convertible into shares of Common Stock. Dilution may occur upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants and upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series C Preferred Stock and the Series D Preferred Stock. Should our stock again be listed on any national stock exchange market, stockholders may also suffer additional dilution if we exercise our right to sell additional shares of our Common Stock to Fletcher International Limited, pursuant to our agreements with such investor.
POSSIBLE VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE
From time to time, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies or industries. Thus, the market price of our Common Stock, like the stock prices of many publicly traded smaller companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Announcements of technological innovations, regulatory matters or new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights, publicity regarding actual or potential product results relating to products under development by us or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, public concern as to the safety of pharmaceutical or dietary supplement products, and economic and
other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in financial results, may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock.
ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECT OF DELAWARE LAW AND CERTAIN CHARTER AND BYLAW PROVISIONS
Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, and discourages a third party from attempting to acquire, control of Shaman. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Common Stock. At December 31, 1998, our Board of Directors had the authority to issue up to 393,715 additional shares of Preferred Stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders.
The rights of the holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. Issuance of Preferred Stock with voting rights, while providing desirable flexibility for possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the outstanding voting stock. For example, holders of Series A, Series C and Series D Preferred Stock currently have preferred rights on any liquidation of Shaman. We may in the future issue shares of Preferred Stock with voting rights. Certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to us could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving Shaman, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION
Shaman's Certificate of Incorporation limits, to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware Law, the personal liability of directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as a director. Our Bylaws provide that we will indemnify our officers, directors, employees and agents to the full extent permitted by the general corporation law of Delaware. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors containing provisions which are in some respects broader than the specific indemnification provisions contained in Delaware Law. The indemnification agreements may require us, among other things, to indemnify such officers and directors against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers (other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature), to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified, and to obtain directors' and officers' insurance, if available on reasonable terms. We currently maintain directors' and officers' insurance.
Section 145 of the Delaware Law provides that a corporation may indemnify a director, officer, employee or agent made or threatened to be made a party to an action by reason of the fact that he was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or was serving at the request of the corporation against expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with such action if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Delaware Law does not permit a corporation to eliminate a director's duty of care, and the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation have no effect on the availability of equitable remedies, such as injunction or rescission, for a director's breach of the duty of care.
PRODUCT LIABILITY EXPOSURE; LIMITED INSURANCE COVERAGE
Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical and dietary supplement products. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical and dietary supplement industries generally is expensive. Our present product liability insurance coverage, which includes coverage for acts by third parties, including manufacturers of our product candidates, may not be adequate under all circumstances. Existing coverage will not be adequate as we further develop our products, and we do not know that adequate insurance coverage against all potential claims will be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost. Some of our development and manufacturing agreements contain insurance and indemnification
provisions pursuant to which we could be held accountable for certain occurrences. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
In connection with our research and development activities and manufacturing of materials, Shaman is subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes. Although we believe we comply with these laws and regulations in all material respects and have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research, development, and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. Although we have secured insurance to mitigate such expense, any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage and resources. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL
Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends in part upon the continued contributions of our key senior management. Our future performance also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and scientific personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to continue to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future. The loss of key personnel or the failure to recruit additional personnel or to develop needed expertise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE
The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written using two digits rather than four to define the applicable year. Any of our computer programs or hardware that have date-sensitive software or embedded chips may recognize a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000. This could result in a system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including, among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions or engage in similar normal business activities.
Based on recent assessments, we have determined that we will be required to certify portions of our software and certain hardware so that those systems will properly utilize dates beyond December 31, 1999. We presently believe that with modifications or replacements of existing software and certain hardware, the Year 2000 issue can be mitigated. We believe that such modification and replacements are not significant, and should such modification and replacements be delayed there would be no material impact on our operations.
We are approximately 85% complete with the assessment of all internal systems that could be significantly affected by the Year 2000. To date, cost estimates for upgrades for those systems not in compliance total approximately $200,000. After the assessment phase is completed, we will have to purchase, install and test the upgrades to ensure they meet internal Year 2000 compliance. We expect to complete our internal Year 2000 readiness program in the third quarter of 1999. We are in the process of asking our significant suppliers and subcontractors that do not share information systems with us (external agents) whether their systems are Year 2000 compliant. To date, we are not aware of any external agent with a Year 2000 Issue that would materially impact our results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources. However, we have no means of ensuring that external agents will be Year 2000 ready. The inability of external agents to complete their Year 2000 resolutions to process in a timely fashion could materially impact us.
We currently have no contingency plans in place in the event we do not complete all phases of the Year 2000 program. We plan to evaluate the status of completion in second quarter of 1999 and determine whether such a plan is necessary.
Pharmaceuticals Risk Factors
DEPENDENCE ON COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS
We expect to seek collaborative agreements to develop and commercialize our pharmaceutical product candidates. We may not be successful in negotiating or entering into such agreements on terms favorable to us or at all, and any agreement, if entered into, may be unsuccessful.
The research and development efforts in our diabetes program and, to a lesser extent, in our other programs, have been dependent upon arrangements with Lipha/Merck and Ono and their funding for research and development efforts thereunder. Research funding from Ono has concluded. We are currently in negotiations with Lipha/Merck for the discontinuation of their research agreement. Lipha/Merck will make no further research payments, and unless we were to conduct further internal development efforts, it is not clear whether there would be any continuation of payment for development costs, milestone and royalty payments, for the compounds that have already been discovered if any of these product candidates continue into development and clinical trials, or commercialization, based on Lipha/Merck's efforts. Shaman and Lipha/Merck are in discussions regarding the dissolution of this relationship.
However, we cannot assure our current or future stockholders that we will ultimately derive any significant revenues from any of our existing or future collaborations or will not incur a loss in connection with the termination of existing collaborations.
RISKS DUE TO THE EARLY STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT OF PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGICAL UNCERTAINTY
We have not yet completed the development of any pharmaceutical product candidates. Many of our product candidates still require significant additional clinical testing and investment of capital before they can be commercialized. Products for therapeutic use in human health care must be evaluated in extensive human clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy. These clinical trials are part of a lengthy process necessary to obtain government approval. Our SP-303/Provir, nikkomycin Z and SP-134101 product candidates have each successfully completed some clinical development. However, positive results for any of these products in clinical trials to date do not necessarily assure that positive results will be obtained in future clinical trials or that government approval to commercialize these product candidates will be obtained.
It is possible that our product candidates may not be successfully outlicensed, developed, enter into human clinical trials, prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, obtain required regulatory approvals, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs, be successfully marketed or may encounter problems in clinical trials that will cause us to delay or suspend product development. Therefore, we cannot assure our current or future stockholders that we will ultimately derive any significant revenue from the outlicense of any of our product candidates.
UNCERTAINTY REGARDING PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS; CURRENT LEGAL PROCEEDINGS REGARDING PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
Our success in outlicensing our pharmaceutical assets depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Moreover, others may have filed patent applications, may have been issued patents or may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to competitive products or processes. Our patent applications may not be approved, we may be unable to develop additional proprietary products that are patentable, issued patents may not provide us with adequate protection for our inventions or they may be challenged by others, or the patents of others may impair our ability to commercialize our products. The patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under pharmaceutical patents. There is considerable variation between countries as to the
level of protection afforded under patents and other proprietary rights. Such differences may expose Shaman to differing risks of commercialization in each foreign country in which we may sell products. Others may independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any of our patents.
A number of pharmaceutical companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with our technologies or patent applications. The European Patent Office, the French Patent Office, the German Patent Office and the Australian Patent Office have each granted a patent containing broad claims to proanthocyanidin polymer compositions (and methods of use of such compositions), which are similar to our specific proanthocyanidin polymer composition (which covers the active pharmaceutical ingredient in SP-303/Provir), to Leon Cariel and the Institut des Substances Vegetales. The effective filing date of these patents is prior to the effective filing date of our foreign pending patent application in Europe. Certain of the foreign patents have been granted in jurisdictions where examination is not rigorous. Shaman has instituted an Opposition in the European Patent Office against granted European Patent No. 472531 owned by Leon Cariel and Institut des Substances Vegetales. We believe that the granted claims are invalid and intend to vigorously prosecute the Opposition.
We may be unsuccessful in having the granted European patent revoked or the claims sufficiently narrowed so that our proanthocyanidin polymer composition and methods of use are not potentially covered. There can be no assurance that Daniel Jean, Leon Cariel and the Institut des Substances Vegetales will not assert against us claims relating to this patent. In that event, we may not be able to obtain a license to this patent at all, or at reasonable cost, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology to use in Europe or elsewhere. The earlier effective filing date of this patent could limit the scope of the patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain or result in the denial of our patent applications in Europe or elsewhere.
In the United States, the PTO has rendered judgment in an Interference declared between our issued patent covering our specific proanthocyanidin polymer composition and certain claims of a U.S. application corresponding to the granted European patent of Leon Cariel and the Institut des Substances Vegetales by Daniel Jean and Leon Cariel. Judgment was awarded to Shaman on July 14, 1997. Since the period for appeal has passed, this judgment is now final.
Additionally, in connection with the Interference proceeding, we have had an opportunity to review the claims and file history of the Daniel Jean and Leon Cariel patent application which, under U.S. patent law, are kept confidential. One broad claim, in particular, of the Daniel Jean and Leon Cariel patent application, which was not involved in the Interference proceeding and which has been indicated to be allowable, covers a large variety of proanthocyanidin polymers. We believe that this broad claim is subject to attack as invalid in view of prior art. Based on knowledge of our specific proanthocyanidin polymer composition, we believe that the manufacture, use or sale of our specific proanthocyanidin polymer composition would not constitute infringement of this broad claim, once it issues. However, if Daniel Jean or Leon Cariel bring an action for infringement of this claim, we may not prevail in defending our beliefs. In addition, if patents that cover our activities have been or are issued to other companies, we may be unable to obtain licenses to these patents at a reasonable cost, or at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology.
If we cannot obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays or be precluded from introducing our products to the market. Litigation may be necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us or to protect our trade secrets or know-how. Additional interference proceedings may be declared or become necessary to determine issues of invention; such litigation and/or interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our efforts may be unsuccessful.
Our competitive position is also dependent upon unpatented trade secrets. All of our employees have entered into confidentiality agreements. However, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, our trade secrets may be disclosed or we may be unable to effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets. To the extent that we or our consultants or research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.
Patent applications in the United States are generally maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we were the first to discover compositions covered by our pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on such compositions. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents and issued patents may not afford comprehensive protection against potential infringement.
We currently have 12 U.S. patent applications pending with the U.S. PTO and one international application filed via PCT, but we do not know whether any of these applications will result in the issuance of any patents or, if any patents are issued, whether any issued patent will provide significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented or invalidated. During the course of patent prosecution, patent applications are evaluated for, among other things, utility, novelty, non-obviousness and enablement. The PTO may require that the claims of an initially filed patent application be amended if it is determined that the scope of the claims includes subject matter that is not useful, novel, non-obvious or enabled.
Furthermore, in certain instances, the practice of a patentable invention may require a license from the holder of dominant patent rights. In cases where one party believes that it has a claim to an invention covered by a patent application or patent of a second party, the first party may provoke an interference proceeding in the PTO or such a proceeding may be declared by the PTO. In general, in an interference proceeding, the PTO would review the competing patents and/or patent applications to determine the validity of the competing claims, including but not limited to determining priority of invention. Any such determination would be subject to appeal in the appropriate U.S. federal courts.
We may not obtain additional patents and the 20 U.S. patents issued to date may not provide substantial protection or be of commercial benefit to us. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, nor does it provide the patent holder with freedom to operate without infringing the patent rights of others. A patent could be challenged by litigation and, if the outcome of such litigation were adverse to the patent holder, competitors could be free to use the subject matter covered by the patent, or the patent holder may license the technology to others in settlement of such litigation. The invalidation of patents owned by or licensed to us or non-approval of pending patent applications could create increased competition, with potential adverse effects on us and our business prospects. In addition, applications of our technology may infringe on patents or proprietary rights of others and licenses that might be required as a result of such infringement for our processes or products may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
We cannot predict whether we or our competitors' patent applications will result in valid patents being issued. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, may also be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. We may, on a voluntary or involuntary basis, participate in interference proceedings that may in the future be declared by the PTO, which could result in substantial costs to us. The outcome of any such litigation or interference proceedings may not be favorable to us, we may be unable to obtain licenses to required technology or we may be unable to license such technology at a reasonable cost.
Botanicals Risk Factors
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
The manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of our BDS products are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the United States Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency. Our activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states and localities where we will distribute and sell our products.
The composition and labeling of dietary supplements is most actively regulated by the FDA under the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FFDC Act has been revised in recent years by the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 and by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994.
Our product candidates are generally regulated as dietary supplements under DSHEA, and are, therefore, generally not subject to pre-market approval by the FDA. However, these product candidates are subject to FDA regulation, particularly relating to adulteration and misbranding. For instance, we are responsible for ensuring that all dietary ingredients in a supplement are safe, and must notify the FDA in advance of putting a product containing a new dietary ingredient (i.e., an ingredient not marketed in the United States before October 15, 1994) on the market and furnish adequate information to provide reasonable assurance of the ingredient's safety. Currently, we are only pursuing products that are old dietary ingredients, and are therefore, not subject to this procedure. Further, if we make statements about a supplement's effects on the structure or function of the body, we must, among other things, substantiate that the statements are truthful and not misleading. In addition, our product labels must bear proper ingredient and nutritional labeling and we must manufacture our supplements in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations for foods. A product can be removed from the market if it is shown to pose a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury. Moreover, if the FDA determines that the "intended use" of any of the our products is for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease, the product would meet the definition of a drug and would require pre-market approval of safety and effectiveness prior to its manufacture and distribution. Our failure of to comply with applicable FDA regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecution.
In December 1995, the FDA issued proposed regulations to govern the labeling of dietary supplements. These rules officially took effect, after a grace period for industry compliance, on March 23, 1999. The new "Supplement Facts" panel is similar to the "Nutrition Facts" panel on foods, and includes information such as the complete list of ingredients and levels of vitamins and minerals. While in our judgment these regulatory changes are generally favorable to the dietary supplements industry, we can give no assurance that we will not in the future be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by various regulatory authorities. In addition, we can give no assurance that existing laws and regulations will not be repealed or that applicable regulatory authorities will not interpret them stringently or unfavorably.
We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. Any change could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Governmental regulations in foreign countries where we may commence or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into the market or prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products. Compliance with such foreign governmental regulations is generally the responsibility of our partners or distributors in those countries, which distributors are independent contractors over whom we have limited or no control.
TRANSITION OF BUSINESS TO NEW INDUSTRY SEGMENT; NO ASSURANCE OF SUCCESSFUL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
We are in the process of transitioning our operations from pharmaceutical product development to botanical dietary supplement development and commercialization. This requires that we learn a new industry segment and create a new business model. Some skills and relationships developed over time may not be transferable to our new business. While we have been working with natural products since our inception, we have no prior experience manufacturing or marketing dietary supplements. There is no assurance we will be successful in these activities.
Our products are at various stages of development, ranging from final initial research to formulation. Additional research and development will be necessary for us to move additional products toward commercialization. Our research and development efforts on these or other potential products may not lead to development of products that are shown to be safe and effective. In addition, our products may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs, may not be successfully marketed, or may not achieve market acceptance. Our products may also prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects that may prevent or limit their commercial use. Accordingly, any of our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected, suspended or eliminated at any time.
DEPENDENCE ON PARTNERS
Our success in the botanicals market depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate key strategic partners in each major channel. See "Business--Customers and Partners--Botanicals." We may not be successful in negotiating or entering into such agreements on terms favorable to us or at all, and any agreement, if entered into, may be unsuccessful. However, we cannot assure our current or future stockholders that we will ultimately derive any significant revenues from any of our existing or future collaborations.
COMPETITION
The business of developing, manufacturing and selling dietary supplements is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, research and development, production, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. Such companies offer a variety of competitive products and services and much broader product lines. We face actual and potential competition not only from these established companies, but also from start-up companies developing and marketing new commercial products. Our failure to successfully compete for customers could adversely affect our future growth, revenues and profitability. See also "Business--Competition--Botanicals."
EFFECT OF PUBLICITY
Our products consist of botanical dietary ingredients that we believe as safe when taken as we suggest. However, because we depend on consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies (which may not adhere to the same quality standards as ours), if our products or a competitor's similar products were asserted to be harmful to consumers, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because we depend on perceptions, adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from consumers' failure to use our products as we suggest, other misuse or abuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could materially and adversely affect our business.
Furthermore, we believe the recent growth experienced by the nutritional supplement market is based in part on national media attention regarding recent scientific research suggesting potential health benefits from regular consumption of certain dietary supplements and other nutritional products. This research has been described in major medical journals, magazines, newspapers and television programs. The scientific research to date is preliminary, and we can give no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings.
DEPENDENCE ON SOURCES OF SUPPLY
We currently import all of the plant materials for our products from countries in Latin and South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. We are dependent upon a supply of raw plant material to make our products. We do not have formal agreements in place with all of our suppliers. Continued source of plant supply risks include:
- unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, - exchange rates tariffs and barriers, - difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, - political instability, and - potentially adverse tax consequences.
Interruptions in supply or material increases in the cost of supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we should be able to raise our prices in response to significant increases in the cost of these ingredients, we may not be able to raise prices quickly enough to offset the effect of these increased raw material costs, if at all.
In addition, tropical rain forests, and certain irreplaceable plant resources therein, are currently threatened with destruction. In the event portions of the rain forests are destroyed which contain the source material from which our
current or future products are derived, such destruction could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
LIMITED MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; LIMITED MARKETING STAFF
We currently produce products only in pilot scale quantities and do not have the staff or facilities necessary to manufacture products in commercial quantities. Therefore, we must rely on collaborative partners or third-party manufacturing facilities. Should we or our third-party manufacturers encounter delays or difficulties in producing, packaging and distributing our finished products, clinical trials and market introduction and subsequent sales of our products could be adversely affected.
Contract manufacturers must conform to certain GMP regulations for foods on an ongoing basis. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If we are required to manufacture our own products, we will be required to build or purchase a manufacturing facility, will be subject to the regulatory requirements mentioned above, to similar risks regarding delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing any such products and will require substantial additional capital. We may be unable to manufacture any such products successfully or in a cost-effective manner.
We currently have minimal marketing staff. If we are unable to successfully establish, execute and finance a complete marketing plan, we may not achieve a successful product entry into the marketplace. Such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION
Our trademarks are valuable assets that are very important to the marketing of our products. Our policy is to pursue registrations for all of the trademarks associated with our key products.
We hold certain patents related to our products and intend to pursue future patents. To the extent we do not have patents on our products, another company may replicate one or more of our products. See "Risk Factors--Pharmaceuticals Risk Factors--Uncertainty Regarding Patents and Proprietary Rights; Current Legal Proceeding Regarding Patents and Proprietary Rights."
Item 2. Properties
Shaman's headquarters are located in South San Francisco, California. We lease approximately 73,000 square feet for offices, laboratories, pilot manufacturing and storage in three adjacent buildings. An additional building with approximately 43,000 square feet becomes available to us in late 1999. The lease on these spaces expires February 28, 2003, and we have an option to renew the lease for two additional five-year periods. The South San Francisco facility serves as the principal site for research, clinical trial management, process development, quality assurance and quality control, regulatory and commercialization activities. We believe that our current facilities are suitable and adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. In fact, as a result of our recent restructuring, we intend to sub-lease some of our facilities. However, there is no assurance we will be successful sub-leasing these facilities.
Item 3.