Item 2. “Properties.” The Company also sells various items of apparel and memorabilia bearing the Company’s trademarks at its pubs, which creates further awareness of the Company’s beers and reinforces the Company’s quality image.
To further promote retail bottled product sales and in response to local competitive conditions, the Company regularly offers “post-offs,” or price discounts, to distributors in most of its markets. Distributors and retailers usually participate in the cost of these price discounts.
On February 3, 2004, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement in principle with Widmer Brothers Brewing Company (“Widmer”), headquartered in Portland, Oregon, to form a joint sales and marketing organization to serve both companies’ operations in the Western United States. Finalization of the organization of this joint venture will require the approval of the Boards of Directors of both companies and various regulatory agencies. The Company expects that the joint venture will become fully operational in the second quarter of 2004. For additional information about the joint venture with Widmer, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain Considerations: Issues and Uncertainties - Joint Organization with Widmer Brothers Brewing Company”.
Seasonality
Sales of the Company’s products are somewhat seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being the slowest and the rest of the year generating stronger sales. The volume of sales may also be affected by weather conditions. Because of the seasonality of the Company’s business, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.
Competition
The Company competes in the highly competitive craft brewing market as well as in the much larger specialty beer market, which encompasses producers of import beers, major national brewers that have introduced fuller-flavored products, and large spirit companies and national brewers that produce flavored alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft brewers have also faced competition from producers of wines and spirits. See “Industry Background.”
Competition within the domestic craft beer segment and the specialty beer market is based on product quality, taste, consistency and freshness; ability to differentiate products; promotional methods and product support; transportation costs; distribution coverage; local appeal; and price.
The craft beer segment is highly competitive due to the proliferation of small craft brewers, including contract brewers, and the large number of products offered by such brewers. Craft brewers have also encountered more competition as their peers expand distribution. Just as Redhook expanded distribution of its products to markets outside of its home in the Pacific Northwest, so have other craft brewers expanded distribution of their products to other regions of the country, leading to an increase in the number of craft brewers in any given market. Redhook has encountered strong competition from microbreweries, from other regional specialty brewers such as Sierra Nevada Brewing Company and New Belgium Brewing Company, as well as from contract brewers such as Boston Beer Company. Because the number of participants and number of different products offered in this segment have increased significantly in the past ten years, the competition for bottled product placements and especially for draft beer placements has intensified. Although certain of these competitors distribute their products nationally and may have greater financial and other resources than the Company, management believes that the Company possesses certain competitive advantages, including its technologically advanced, Company-owned production facilities and distribution through the Alliance.
A significant portion of the Company’s sales continues to be in the Pacific Northwest region, which the Company believes is one of the most competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. Since 1997, the Company has experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington State, the Company’s largest market, of approximately 6%. As this market matures, the Company expects to face increased competition, both from increased product introductions and aggressive price promotions.
The Company also competes against producers of imported beers, such as Bass, Becks, Heineken, and Modelo (Corona). Most of these foreign brewers have significantly greater financial resources than the Company. Although imported beers currently account for a much greater share of the U.S. beer market than craft beers, the Company believes that craft brewers possess certain competitive advantages over some importers, including lower transportation and no importation costs, proximity to and familiarity with local consumers, a higher degree of product freshness, eligibility for lower federal excise taxes and absence of currency fluctuations.
In response to the growth of the craft beer segment, most of the major domestic brewers have introduced fuller-flavored beers. While these product offerings are intended to compete with craft beers, many of them are brewed according to methods used by the major national brewers. Although increased participation of the major national brewers increases competition for market share and can heighten price sensitivity within the craft beer segment, the Company believes that their participation will tend to increase advertising, distribution and consumer education and awareness of craft beers, and thus may contribute to further growth of this industry segment.
In 2001 and 2002, several major distilled spirits producers and national brewers introduced flavored alcohol beverages, also referred to as malternative beverages. These products, such as Smirnoff Ice, SKYY Blue, Bacardi Silver and Mike’s Hard Lemonade, initially demonstrated strong sales and appeared to draw a portion of overlapping consumers away from imports and craft beers. While industry specialists estimate that 2003 sales of some of these products have leveled off or even declined slightly, flavored alcohol beverages, in general, continue to be supported by significant advertising spending. The producers of many of these products have significantly greater financial resources than the Company. The success of the flavored alcohol beverages will likely subject the Company to increased competition.
Competition for consumers of craft beers has also come from wine and spirits. Some of the growth in the past five years in the wine and spirits market, industry sources believe, has been drawn away from the beer market. This growth appears to be attributable to competitive pricing, increased merchandising, and increased consumer interest in spirits.
Regulation
The Company’s business is highly regulated at federal, state and local levels. Various permits, licenses and approvals necessary to the Company’s brewery and pub operations and the sale of alcoholic beverages are required from various agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (the “TTB”), formerly the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms; the United States Department of Agriculture; the United States Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies in the states in which the Company sells its products; and state and local health, sanitation, safety, fire and environmental agencies. In addition, the beer industry is subject to substantial federal and state excise taxes, although the Company benefits from favorable treatment granted to brewers producing less than 2 million barrels per year.
Management believes that the Company currently has all licenses, permits and approvals necessary for its current operations. However, existing permits or licenses could be revoked if the Company failed to comply with the terms of such permits or licenses. Additional permits or licenses could be required in the future for the Company’s existing or expanded operations. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary for the Company’s brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly delayed, or if any such permits or licenses were revoked, the Company’s ability to conduct its business could be substantially and adversely affected.
Alcoholic Beverage Regulation and Taxation
Both of the Company’s breweries and pubs are subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities. The Company operates its breweries under federal licensing requirements imposed by the TTB. The TTB requires the filing of a “Brewer’s Notice” upon the establishment of a commercial brewery. In addition, commercial brewers are required to file an amended Brewer’s Notice every time there is a material change in the brewing process or brewing equipment, change in the brewery’s location, change in the brewery’s management or a material change in the brewery’s ownership. The Company’s operations are subject to audit and inspection by the TTB at any time.
In addition to the regulations imposed by the TTB, the Company’s breweries are subject to various regulations concerning retail sales, pub operations, deliveries and selling practices in states in which the Company sells its products. Failure of the Company to comply with applicable federal or state regulations could result in limitations on the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The TTB’s permits can be revoked for failure to pay taxes, to keep proper accounts, to pay fees, to bond premises, or to abide by federal alcoholic beverage production and distribution regulations, or if holders of 10% or more of the Company’s equity securities are found to be of questionable character. Permits from state regulatory agencies can be revoked for many of the same reasons.
The U.S. federal government currently imposes an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the United States. However, any brewer with annual production under 2 million barrels instead pays federal excise tax in the amount of $7 per barrel on sales of the first 60,000 barrels. While the Company is not aware of any plans by the federal government to reduce or eliminate this benefit to small brewers, any such reduction in a material amount could have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company would lose the benefit of this rate structure if it exceeded the 2 million barrel production threshold. Individual states also impose excise taxes on alcoholic beverages in varying amounts, which have also been subject to change. It is possible that excise taxes will be increased in the future by both the federal government and several states. In addition, increased excise taxes on alcoholic beverages have in the past been considered in connection with various governmental budget-balancing or funding proposals. Any such increases in excise taxes, if enacted, could adversely affect the Company.
State and Federal Environmental Regulation
The Company’s brewery operations are subject to environmental regulations and local permitting requirements and agreements regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges and the handling and disposal of wastes. While the Company has no reason to believe the operations of its facilities violate any
such regulation or requirement, if such a violation were to occur, or if environmental regulations were to become more stringent in the future, the Company could be adversely affected.
Dram Shop Laws
The serving of alcoholic beverages to a person known to be intoxicated may, under certain circumstances, result in the server’s being held liable to third parties for injuries caused by the intoxicated customer. The Company’s pubs have addressed this concern by establishing early closing hours and regularly scheduled employee training. Large uninsured damage awards against the Company could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition.
Relationship with Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated
In October 1994, the Company entered into the Alliance with A-B. The Alliance consists of a national distribution agreement (the “A-B Distribution Agreement”) and an investment by A-B in the Company (the “A-B Investment Agreement”). The Alliance gives the Company access to A-B’s domestic network of nearly 600 wholesale distributors, while the Company maintains control over the production and marketing of its products. Pursuant to the A-B Investment Agreement, A-B invested approximately $30 million to purchase the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) and common stock of the Company (“Common Stock”), including newly-issued shares concurrent with the Company’s initial public offering.
A-B Distribution Agreement
The A-B Distribution Agreement has a stated term of 20 years, but is subject to earlier termination
(i)
by either party without cause on December 31, 2004;
(ii)
by either party upon an uncured material breach by the other party of certain provisions of the Series B Preferred Stock, the A-B Investment Agreement, the A-B Distribution Agreement or certain related A-B investment documents, or upon the insolvency of the other party;
(iii)
by A-B upon
(a)
acquisition by another large alcoholic beverage competitor of 10% or greater equity ownership of the Company and a seat on the Company’s Board of Directors; or
(b)
a deterioration of the Company’s financial condition that results from a change in ownership of the Company and materially adversely affects its ability to perform under the A-B Distribution Agreement; or
(iv)
by A-B following
(a)
any action by the Company that in A-B’s sole determination damages the reputation or image of A-B or the brewing industry (for example, production of a high-alcohol beer, defamation of A-B or its products or contamination of the Company’s products, but not poor operating results, an unsuccessful product introduction or competition with A-B’s products);
(b)
any acquisition of, agreement to acquire, or institution of a tender or exchange offer to acquire a percentage of the Company’s equity securities equal to or greater than that held by A-B;
(c)
certain agreements pursuant to which the Company would merge into or consolidate with another corporation or sell substantially all of its assets or certain of its trademarks; or
(d)
the failure to appoint a successor acceptable to A-B in the event Paul S. Shipman ceases to function as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer.
The term “Extraordinary Termination” refers to the termination by A-B of the A-B Distribution Agreement for any of the reasons described under clause (iv) above.
In the event that the A-B Distribution Agreement is terminated on or before December 31, 2004, under the circumstances described in (i), (iii) or (iv) above, or by A-B under the circumstances described in (ii) above, the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock held by A-B pursuant to the A-B Investment Agreement (see A-B Investment Agreement below) require the mandatory redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock on December 31, 2004, at a redemption price equal to $12.61 per share (approximately $16.3 million in the aggregate), plus an amount equal to accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock further provide that, if at the time of the mandatory redemption the Company has insufficient legally available funds to redeem all shares of Series B Preferred Stock, then all funds that are legally available must be used to redeem Series B Preferred Stock. At any time thereafter when additional funds of the Company become legally available, such funds must be immediately used to redeem shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The Company would not be legally able to redeem shares of Series B Preferred Stock if, after giving effect to such redemption, the Company would not be able to pay its debts when due in the usual course of business or the Company’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. Notice of intention to terminate the Distribution Agreement must be made by the party electing to do so no less than six months prior to the termination date. To date, neither party has given notice of its intention to terminate the A-B Distribution Agreement.
The termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement for any reason or the failure by the Company to perform any of its material obligations under the A-B Investment Agreement would also constitute an event of default under the Company’s bank credit agreement. Upon default, the bank may declare the entire outstanding term loan balance immediately due and payable. If the loan balance became due and payable, such payment would have seniority over the redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock. If this were to occur, it would be unlikely that the Company could satisfy its obligations under the term loan. In all events, unless additional capital were raised, the Company would not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy both its obligation under the term loan and its obligation to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock. The Company could seek to refinance its term loan with one or more banks or obtain additional equity capital, however, there can be no assurance the Company would be able to access additional capital to meet its needs or that such additional capital would be at commercially reasonable terms.
If the A-B Distribution Agreement were terminated early as described above, it would be extremely difficult for the Company to rebuild its distribution network without a severe negative impact on the Company’s sales and results of operations. The mandatory redemption would also have a material adverse effect on the financial position and cash flows of the Company. It is likely that the Company would need to raise funds to fund the development of the new distribution network where possible and continue operations as it uses legally available funds to pay for the redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock. There cannot be any guarantee that the Company would be able to successfully rebuild all, or part, of its distribution network or that any additional financing would be available when needed, either from the current or a replacement bank or from the capital markets, or that any such financing would be on commercially reasonable terms. If the Distribution Agreement were terminated, the Company’s ability to remain a going concern would be uncertain.
A-B Investment Agreement
Pursuant to the A-B Investment Agreement, A-B purchased 236,756 shares of Common Stock for $7.00 per share in October 1994 and 1,289,872 shares of Series B Preferred Stock for $12.61 per share in November 1994.
A-B Preemptive Rights. Pursuant to the A-B Investment Agreement, A-B exercised its right in connection with the Company’s public offering in August 1995 to purchase 716,714 shares of Common Stock at $17.00 per share in order to maintain its 25% ownership percentage of the Common Stock on a Fully Diluted Basis (as defined below). A-B has no further preemptive rights.
A-B Purchase and Transfer Restrictions. The A-B Investment Agreement provides that, to the extent A-B’s ownership exceeds 30% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, calculated on a Fully Diluted Basis, as a result of a rights offering, A-B will, in certain circumstances, take steps to divest itself of such
shares no later than the later of (i) one year from the date of such purchase or acquisition and (ii) the earliest period in which such shares may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The A-B Investment Agreement imposes restrictions on A-B’s ability to transfer Series B Preferred Stock and Common Stock, including, subject to certain exceptions (including sales of less than 3% of the outstanding Common Stock, or sales pursuant to the exercise of registration rights), a limited right of first refusal in favor of the Company on proposed sales of Common Stock by A-B, an outright prohibition of sales by A-B of more than 12.5% of the Common Stock on a Fully Diluted Basis to any single person or group, or of any Common Stock to brewers of malt beverages, and a prohibition on any sale of Series B Preferred Stock prior to an Extraordinary Termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement.
A-B Board Representation. Under the A-B Investment Agreement, A-B has the right to designate a number of nominees based on its percentage ownership, but not less than two, so long as A-B holds at least 20% of the Common Stock on a Fully Diluted Basis (which number will be rounded up to the next highest whole number if not a whole number). A-B’s percentage ownership on a “Fully Diluted Basis,” as defined in the A-B Investment Agreement is calculated based on the assumption that all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock and other convertible securities are converted into Common Stock, that all outstanding warrants and stock options (other than stock options granted to officers, directors and employees under the Company’s option plans) have been exercised in full, and that all holdings of A-B and its affiliated companies are aggregated. Currently, there are no outstanding options or warrants that would be included in the calculation of outstanding shares on a Fully Diluted Basis. As of March 12, 2004, A-B owned 29.8% of the Company’s Common Stock on a Fully Diluted Basis, and therefore was entitled under the terms of the A-B Investment Agreement to designate 2 directors to the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company is obligated to use reasonable efforts to cause the election of the nominees designated by A-B. If the designees are not elected, the Company is obligated to take certain remedial measures, and A-B is entitled to elect the same number of directors by class voting under the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock. A-B also has a contractual right to have one of its Board designees sit on each committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.
Covenants Binding the Company. The Company has agreed, pursuant to the A-B Investment Agreement, that it will not, without A-B’s consent, (i) enter into any acquisition or investment transaction involving an aggregate purchase price exceeding 50% of the book value of the Company’s assets prior to such transaction; (ii) enter into any transaction involving the transfer of specified trademarks or trade names or the sale of assets representing more than 50% of the book value of the Company’s assets prior to such transaction; (iii) issue or sell to any person (including A-B), or amend its capital structure to authorize the issuance of, equity securities except within certain permitted categories, including pursuant to (a) the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, (b) a stock split or the exercise of any outstanding option, (c) other issuances not exceeding in the aggregate 20% of the shares of Common Stock and Series B Preferred Stock (as if converted) outstanding at the beginning of each two-year period commencing on January 1, 1995 and on January 1 of every second year thereafter, and (d) issuances under certain antitakeover plans; (iv) authorize or issue any shares of capital stock ranking equal or prior to the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividend or liquidation rights, or entitled to more than one vote per share or to class voting on any matter (except as required by Washington corporation law) or to ordinary voting power in the election of directors (other than Common Stock), or authorize or issue any new class or series of common shares; (v) issue or sell any equity securities to persons having revenues of $100 million or more (subject to adjustment) from the production or distribution of alcoholic beverages in North and South America; (vi) afford to any other person or group the right to designate a number of the Company’s directors equal to or greater than the largest number A-B is contractually entitled to designate; (vii) issue or sell any equity securities that would have the effect of reducing the aggregate percentage ownership of A-B (and its subsidiaries and nominees) to under 20% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company without providing A-B with 10 days written notice; (viii) enter into any transaction with any affiliate of the Company except under certain circumstances; (ix) engage in any material respect in any business other than producing and distributing beverages; (x) enter into a merger, consolidation or share exchange with another corporation, except for transactions meeting multiple criteria
(including, among others, survival of the Company and no change in control); or (xi) amend its Articles or Bylaws in certain respects.
Certain of these covenants, as well as A-B’s contractual Board and committee representation rights, terminate upon the earliest of (i) a reduction in the ownership of A-B and its affiliates to less than the greater of (a) 610,000 shares of Common Stock (assuming conversion and exercise of all convertible securities, options and warrants and ignoring any stock split or other recapitalization) and (b) 7.5% of the Common Stock calculated on a Fully Diluted Basis; (ii) a purchase or acquisition of Common Stock by A-B that results in an increase in the ownership of A-B and its affiliates to more than 30% of the Common Stock calculated on a Fully Diluted Basis, if A-B does not indicate that it will divest itself of shares to reduce its ownership within a 10 day period; (iii) an Extraordinary Termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement; (iv) termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement by Redhook on the basis of an uncured breach by, or insolvency of, A-B; and (v) termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement by either party at the end of 2004 or the expiration thereof at the end of 2014.
Trademarks
The Company has obtained U.S. trademark registrations for the marks and corresponding logo designs for Ballard Bitter, Blackhook, Redhook, Redhook ESB, Wheathook, Winterhook, Sunrye, Double Black Stout and Blueline. The Company has also obtained U.S. trademark registrations for Forecasters, Trolleyman, and Cataqua. The Redhook mark and certain other Company marks are also registered or pending in various foreign countries. The Company regards its Redhook and other trademarks as having substantial value and as being an important factor in the marketing of its products. The Company is not aware of any infringing uses that could materially affect its current business or any prior claim to the trademarks that would prevent the Company from using such trademarks in its business. The Company’s policy is to pursue registration of its marks in its markets whenever possible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its marks.
Employees
At December 31, 2003, the Company had 206 employees, including 60 in production, 83 in the pubs, 49 in sales and marketing, and 14 in administration. Of these, 49 in the pubs, 5 in sales and marketing and 1 in production were part-time employees. The Company believes its relations with its employees to be good.
Item 2.
Properties
The Company currently operates two technologically advanced, highly automated small-batch breweries, one in the Seattle suburb of Woodinville, Washington and the other in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. See Notes 4 and 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements included elsewhere herein.
The Washington Brewery. The Washington Brewery, located on approximately 22 acres (17 of which are developable) in Woodinville, Washington, a suburb of Seattle, is across the street from the Chateau Ste. Michelle Winery, next to the Columbia Winery and visible from a popular bicycle path. The Washington Brewery is comprised of an approximately 88,000 square-foot building, a 40,000 square-foot building and an outdoor tank farm. The two buildings house a 100-barrel brewhouse, fermentation cellars, filter rooms, grain storage silos, a bottling line, a keg filling line, dry storage, two coolers and loading docks. The brewery includes a retail merchandise outlet and the Forecasters Public House, a 4,000 square-foot family-oriented pub that seats 200 and features an outdoor beer garden that seats an additional 200. Additional entertainment facilities include a 4,000 square-foot special events room accommodating up to 250 people. The brewery also houses office space, a portion of which is occupied by the Company’s corporate office and the remainder of which is leased through March 2005. The brewery’s current production capacity is approximately 250,000 barrels per year under ideal brewing conditions. The Company purchased the land in 1993 and believes that its value has appreciated.
The New Hampshire Brewery. The New Hampshire Brewery is located on approximately 23 acres in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. The land is subleased, the term of which expires in 2047, and contains two seven-year extension options. The New Hampshire Brewery is modeled after the Washington Brewery and is similarly equipped, but is larger in design, covering 125,000 square feet to accommodate all phases of the Company’s brewing operations under one roof. Also included is a retail merchandise outlet, the Cataqua Public House, a 4,000 square-foot family-oriented pub with an outdoor beer garden, and a special events room accommodating up to 250 people. Production began in late October 1996, with an initial brewing capacity of approximately 100,000 barrels per year. In order to accommodate anticipated sales growth, additional brewing capacity was installed in 2002 and 2003, bringing the current production capacity to approximately 125,000 barrels per year. The Company plans to phase in additional brewing capacity as needed, up to the maximum designed production capacity of approximately 250,000 barrels per year under ideal brewing conditions.
Item 3.