Item 2 of Part I of this report.
Successful efforts method of accounting. Generally accepted accounting principles provide for two alternative methods for the oil and gas industry to use in accounting for oil and gas producing activities. These two methods are generally known in our industry as the full cost method and the successful efforts method. Both methods are widely used. The methods are different enough that in many circumstances the same set of facts will
provide materially different financial statement results within a given year. We have chosen the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities, and a detailed description is included in Note 1 of Part IV, Item 15 of this report.
Revenue recognition. Our revenue recognition policy is significant because revenue is a key component of our results of operations and our forward-looking statements contained in our analyses of liquidity and capital resources. We derive our revenue primarily from the sale of produced natural gas and crude oil. We report revenue as the gross amounts we receive before taking into account production taxes and transportation costs, which are reported as separate expenses. Revenue is recorded in the month our production is delivered to the purchaser, but payment is generally received between 30 and 90 days after the date of production. No revenue is recognized unless it is determined that title to the product has transferred to a purchaser. At the end of each month we make estimates of the amount of production delivered to the purchaser and the price we will receive. We use our knowledge of our properties, their historical performance, NYMEX and local spot market prices, and other factors as the basis for these estimates. Variances between our estimates and the actual amounts received are recorded in the month payment is received. A ten percent change in our year-end revenue accrual would have impacted net income before tax by $11.6 million in 2007.
Crude oil and natural gas hedging. Our crude oil and natural gas hedging contracts are intended and usually qualify for cash flow deferral hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. Under this accounting pronouncement a majority of the gain or loss from a contract qualifying as a cash flow hedge is deferred as to statement of operations recognition. The position reflected in the statement of operations is based on the actual settlements with the counterparty. If our natural gas and crude oil hedge contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or we chose not to use this hedge accounting methodology, our periodic consolidated statements of operations could include significant changes in the estimate of non-cash derivative gain or loss due to swings in the value of these contracts. Consequently, we would report a different amount for oil and gas hedge loss in our statements of operations. These fluctuations could be especially significant in a volatile pricing environment such as what we have encountered over the last three years. The amounts recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $(170.0) million, $69.0 million, and $(57.2) million, for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, would have increased or (decreased) net income after tax if our hedges did not qualify as cash flow deferral hedges under SFAS No. 133.
Change in Net Profits Plan Liability. We record the estimated liability of future payments for our Net Profit Plan. The estimated liability is calculated based on a number of assumptions, including estimates of oil and gas reserves, recurring and workover lease operating expense, product and ad valorem tax rates, present value discount factors, and pricing assumptions. Additional discussion is included in the analysis in the above section titled Overview of the Company, under the heading Net Profits Plan.
Asset retirement obligations. We are required to recognize an estimated liability for future costs associated with the abandonment of our oil and gas properties. We base our estimate of the liability on our historical experience in abandoning oil and gas wells projected into the future based on our current understanding of federal and state regulatory requirements. Our present value calculations require us to estimate the economic lives of our properties, assume what future inflation rates apply to external estimates, and determine what credit adjusted risk-free rate to use. The impact to the consolidated statement of operations from these estimates is reflected in our depreciation, depletion, and amortization calculations and occurs over the remaining life of our oil and gas properties.
Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets. Our property and equipment is recorded at cost. An impairment allowance is provided on unproved property when we determine that the property will not be developed or the carrying value will not be realized. We evaluate the realizability of our proved properties and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may be appropriate. Our impairment test compares the expected undiscounted future net revenues from a property, using escalated pricing, with the related net capitalized costs of the property at the end of each period. When the net capitalized costs exceed the undiscounted future net revenue of a property, the cost of the property is written down to our estimate of fair value, which is determined by applying a discount rate that we believe is indicative of the current market. Our criteria for
an acceptable internal rate of return are subject to change over time. Different pricing assumptions or discount rates could result in a different calculated impairment.
Income taxes. We provide for deferred income taxes on the difference between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in our financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” This difference will result in taxable income or deductions in future years when the reported amount of the asset or liability is recovered or settled, respectively. Considerable judgment is required in determining when these events may occur and whether recovery of an asset is more likely than not. Additionally, our federal and state income tax returns are generally not filed before the consolidated financial statements are prepared, therefore we estimate the tax basis of our assets and liabilities at the end of each period as well as the effects of tax rate changes, tax credits, and net operating and capital loss carryforwards and carrybacks. Adjustments related to differences between the estimates we used and actual amounts we reported are recorded in the period in which we file our income tax returns. These adjustments and changes in our estimates of asset recovery could have an impact on our results of operations. A one percent change in our effective tax rate would have affected our calculated income tax expense by $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Stock-based compensation. Prior to 2006 we accounted for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value recognition and measurement principles detailed in APB No. 25. No stock-based employee compensation expense relating to stock options has been reflected in our expense as all options granted under our plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. We used the Black-Scholes option valuation model to calculate the disclosures required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. As of January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R). This statement required us to record expense associated with the fair value of stock-based compensation. We have recorded expense associated with the issuance of restricted stock units since the plan was adopted in 2004 and units were first issued. Going forward this expense will decrease on a relative per share basis for all units that have already been issued because the accounting standard requires cost recognition using fair value estimates of the restricted stock units, rather than intrinsic value.
Additional Comparative Data in Tabular Format:
Components of Revenue Increases (Decreases):
Our product mix as a percentage of total oil and gas revenue and production:
Information regarding the effects of oil and gas hedging activity:
Information regarding the components of exploration expense:
Comparison of Financial Results and Trends between 2007 and 2006
Oil and gas production revenues. Average net daily production increased 16 percent to a record 294.5 MMCFE for 2007 compared with 254.2 MMCFE in 2006. The following table presents specific components that contributed to the increase in revenue between the two periods:
The revenue increases in this table also reflect the difference in oil and gas prices received between the comparable periods. The production increases are offset by natural declines in production from older properties to result in the net increase in production between the years presented. Additional production costs reflect increases resulting from inflation and competition for resources.
Oil and gas realized hedge gain (loss). The 13 percent decrease in total oil and gas hedge gain to $24.5 million was caused by a change in the composition of our hedge position and changes in oil and gas commodity prices.
Marketed gas system revenue and expense. Marketed gas system revenue increased $24.2 million to $45.1 million for the year-ended December 31, 2007, compared with $20.9 million for the comparable period of 2006. The increase is due to the addition of a new marketed gas system in western Oklahoma that increased the number of wells for which we currently market gas, as well as increased production in the Woodford shale formation located in Coal County, Oklahoma. Concurrent with the increase in marketed gas system revenue, marketed gas system expense increased $24.0 million to $42.5 million for the year-ended December 31, 2007, compared with $18.5 million for the comparable period of 2006.
Other revenues. Other revenues increased $7.8 million to $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with $942,000 for the comparable period of 2006. The increase is due primarily to a $5.2 million gain associated with a global insurance settlement attributed to Hurricane Rita. The gain calculation is net of approximately $12.1 million of costs associated with the plugging and abandonment of one offshore platform. We continue to closely monitor the activities associated with these properties. Any significant variation between actual and estimated plugging and abandonment and outside-operated damage repair costs will impact the final determination of the insurance settlement gain. We assume that all work will be completed and expect adjustments to the gain will be finalized during the second quarter of 2008.
Oil and gas production expenses. Total production costs increased $41.6 million or 24 percent to $218.2 million for 2007, from $176.6 million in 2006. Our current year and prior year acquisition of properties added $13.6 million of incremental production costs, and other wells completed in 2006 and 2007 added
$13.7 million of incremental production costs in 2007 that were not reflected in 2006. The production cost increases are offset by natural declines in production costs from older properties to result in the net increase in production costs between the years presented. We experienced an increase in production taxes consistent with the increase in revenue from higher realized prices.
Total oil and gas production costs per MCFE increased $0.12 to $2.03 for 2007, compared with $1.91 for 2006. This increase is comprised of the following:
·
A $0.02 increase in overall transportation cost due to an increase in the Rocky Mountain region resulting from a change in the sale measurement point, as well as newly drilled wells with higher transportation costs
·
A $0.11 increase in recurring lease operating expense related to continued cost pressure from the oil and gas service sector
·
A $0.05 overall decrease in lease operating expense relating to workover expense, primarily in the Rockies
·
A $0.04 increase in production taxes related to increase production in the Permian region.
Depletion, Depreciation, and Amortization. DD&A increased $73.1 million, or 47 percent, to $227.6 million in 2007 compared with $154.5 million in 2006. DD&A expense per MCFE increased 27 percent to $2.12 in 2007 compared to $1.67 in 2006. This increase reflects overall upward cost pressure in the industry and specifically our drilling in 2007 and 2006 that added costs at a higher per unit rate relative to the prior year’s base. The DD&A per MCFE rate was further affected by upward adjustments to reserves due to pricing differences between December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006 although this had the impact of a general lowering of DD&A as compared to what DD&A would have been with the upward revisions of 40.9 BCFE of proved reserves.
Exploration expense. Exploration expense increased $6.8 million or 13 percent to $58.7 million in 2007 compared with $51.9 million for 2006. This increase is due to a $7.5 million increase in geologic and geophysical expense to support a larger overall program as well as a $4.2 million increase in exploratory dry hole expense related to three wells located in the Gulf Coast region and one in the Rockies region. These increases were offset by a $4.9 million decrease in exploration overhead expense related to a reduction in amounts recorded in exploration expense related to payments under the Net Profits Plan. In the current year we had a change in our accounting estimate to reflect the view that Net Profits Plan distributions should be reclassified to exploration overhead only for individuals who are currently employed by us and who continue to be involved in our exploration efforts. Therefore Net Profits Plan payments associated with the distributions under the Net Profits Plan for ex-employees were reclassified to general and administrative expense since there is no longer any functional link to exploration expense as there is by definition no periodic costs associated with geologic, geophysical and exploration related work by those ex-employees.
General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $21.3 million or 55 percent to $60.1 million for 2007, compared with $38.9 million for 2006. G&A increased $0.14 to $0.56 per MCFE for 2007 compared to $0.42 per MCFE for the period in 2006 as G&A grew at a faster rate than the 16 percent increase in production. A 23 percent increase in employee count has contributed to an increase in base employee compensation, including taxes and benefits, of approximately 29 percent, or $8.5 million, between the year ended December 31, 2007, and the same period of 2006.
An increase in oil and gas prices in 2007 triggered additional Net Profits Plan payouts and has increased the amounts payable to plan participants. Additionally, an increased percentage amount of the distribution dollars under the Net Profits Plan associated with general and administrative expense contributed to the current period realized expense associated with the Net Profits Plan increasing by $5.8 million in 2007 compared with the same period in 2006. An increase in employee count resulted in an increase in cash bonus expense of $2.4 million to $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
RSU bonus expense remained relatively flat decreasing by $100,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with the same period in 2006. Compensation expense related to stock options for the year ended
December 31, 2007, decreased $1.4 million to $437,000 from $1.9 million in the comparable period in 2006 because virtually all the stock options are now vested. No stock options have been granted since 2004.
The amounts described above, combined with a net $5.4 million increase in other G&A expense (including office supplies and employee development), were offset by a $5.0 million decrease in the amount of G&A that was allocated to exploration expense due to the aforementioned change in our Net Profits Plan accounting estimate and a $4.3 million increase in COPAS overhead reimbursements. COPAS overhead reimbursements from operations increased due to an increase in our operated well count from our drilling program.
Change in Future Net Profits Plan Liability. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this expense increased $27.1 million to $50.8 million from $23.8 million for 2006. This increase reflects a decrease in the discount rate used to calculate the present value of future payments from a base rate of 15 percent to 12 percent. The decrease in the discount rate to the 12 percent resulted from our divestiture marketing process and our assessment that the overall market for proved oil and gas reserves is ever more competitive. This liability is a significant management estimate. Adjustments to the liability are subject to estimation and may change dramatically from period-to-period based on assumptions used for production rates, reserve quantities, commodity pricing, discount rates, production tax rates, and production costs.
Interest expense. Interest expense increased by $11.4 million to $19.9 million for 2007 compared to $8.5 million for 2006. The increase reflects an increase in our average outstanding borrowings in 2007 compared with 2006. Additionally, the increase reflects that we have $287.5 million of 3.50% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding at December 31, 2007, compared with 100.0 million of 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2006. We also capitalized $5.4 million of interest in 2007 compared to $3.5 million in 2006.
Income tax expense. Income tax expense totaled $110.6 million for 2007 and $105.3 million in 2006, resulting in effective tax rates of 36.8 percent and 35.7 percent, respectively. The effective rate change from 2006 reflects changes in the mix of the highest marginal state tax rates as a result of enacted Texas margin tax legislation, the benefit of federal and state estimated percentage depletion expense, acquisition and drilling activity, and also reflects other permanent differences including differing estimated effects between years of the domestic production activities deduction.
The current portion of income tax expense in 2007 is $17.6 million compared to $30.5 million in 2006. These amounts are 16 percent and 29 percent of total income tax expense for the respective periods. The decrease resulted from significant increased drilling activity reflecting the deduction of intangible drilling costs in the year incurred, thereby reducing current taxable income. We project that the current portion of taxable income will be similar in 2008.
Comparison of Financial Results and Trends between 2006 and 2005
Oil and gas production revenues. Average net daily production increased six percent to a record 254.2 MMCFE for 2006 compared with 239.4 MMCFE in 2005. The following table presents specific components that contributed to the increase in revenue between the two periods:
The revenue increases in this table also reflect the difference in oil and gas prices received between the comparable periods. The production increases were offset by natural declines in production from older properties to result in the net increase in production between the years presented. Additional production costs reflect increases resulting from inflation and competition for resources.
Oil and gas realized hedge gain (loss). The 225 percent increase in total oil and gas hedge gain to $28.2 million was caused by a change in the composition of our hedge position and changes in oil and gas commodity prices.
Oil and gas production expenses. Total production costs increased $33.7 million or 24 percent to $176.6 million for 2006, from $142.9 million in 2005. The acquisition of properties added $1.4 million of incremental production costs, prior year acquisitions of properties added $5.2 million of incremental production costs, and other wells completed in 2005 and 2006 added $15.3 million of incremental production costs in 2006 that were not reflected in 2005. We experienced an increase in production taxes consistent with the increase in revenue from higher realized prices.
Total oil and gas production costs per MCFE increased $0.27 to $1.91 for 2006, compared with $1.64 for 2005. This increase was comprised of the following:
·
A $0.02 decrease in production taxes, due to a $0.04 decrease in our Rocky Mountain region resulting from an increase in new production, which qualifies for incentive tax rates, that was partially offset by a minor increase in our Mid-Continent region resulting from higher natural gas revenues
·
A $0.03 increase in overall transportation cost, due to an increase in the Rocky Mountain region resulting from a change in the sale measurement point, as well as newly drilled wells with higher transportation costs
·
A $0.20 increase in recurring LOE related to continued increases in costs for oil and gas service sector resources
·
A $0.06 overall increase in LOE relating to workover charges, mainly due to activity in the Rockies.
Depletion, Depreciation, and Amortization. DD&A increased $21.8 million or 16 percent to $154.5 million in 2006 compared with $132.8 million in 2005. DD&A expense per MCFE increased 10 percent to $1.67 in 2006 compared to $1.52 in 2005. This increase reflected overall upward cost pressure in the industry and specifically our acquisitions and drilling in 2006 and 2005 that added costs at a higher per unit rate. The DD&A per MCFE rate was further affected by downward adjustments to reserves due to pricing differences between December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005.
Proved Property Impairment. St. Mary recorded a $7.2 million impairment of proved oil and gas properties in 2006 compared with no impairment in 2005. This impairment was primarily due to declining performance and downward adjustments to reserves for properties located in East Texas.
Exploration expense. Exploration expense increased $7.0 million or 15 percent to $51.9 million in 2006 compared with $44.9 million for 2005. This increase was due to a $3.3 million increase in exploration overhead related to increases in payments made under the Net Profits Plan and increases in the size of our geologic and exploration staff. Additionally, the increase in exploration expense was partially related to an approximate $2.1 million increase in exploratory dry hole expense and a $1.6 million increase in geologic and geophysical expense to support a larger overall program.
General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $6.1 million or 19 percent to $38.9 million for 2006, compared with $32.8 million for 2005. G&A increased $0.05 to $0.42 per MCFE for 2006 compared to $0.37 per MCFE for the period in 2005 as G&A grew at a faster rate than the six percent increase in production.
A 16 percent increase in employee count contributed to an increase in base employee compensation of approximately 18 percent, or $3.5 million, between the year ended December 31, 2006, and the same period of 2005. Oil and gas price increases triggered additional Net Profits Plan payouts and increased the amounts payable to
plan participants. Consequently, the realized expense associated with the Net Profits Plan increased by $5.4 million in 2006 compared with the same period in 2005. A decrease in the bonus percentage resulted in a decrease in the accrued cash bonus expense of $5.0 million to $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared with $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
RSU bonus expense was $1.5 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, which was due to the increase in amortization of stock-based compensation expense. In 2006, we recorded expense for four periods of RSU grants while there were only three grants recorded in 2005. Also in 2006, we included the grant made in 2006 for 2005 performance and the additional accrual of the expense estimated for the 2006 plan year. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in RSU bonus expense for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared with the same period in 2005. This decrease correlated to the decrease in cash bonus expense and reflected an evaluation of our overall performance for 2006 including reserve replacement, production, and net asset value per share growth factors.
As a result of the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006, we recorded $2.2 million of compensation expense in 2006 related to stock options and the ESPP. The above amounts combined with a net $5.1 million increase in other G&A expense, including payroll tax and 401(k) contribution expense, were offset by a $3.2 million increase in the amount of G&A that was allocated to exploration expense due to the aforementioned incentive plan increases as well as increases in the size of our technical exploration staff and a $3.4 million increase in COPAS overhead reimbursements. COPAS overhead reimbursements from operations increased due to an increase in our operated well count from our drilling program.
Change in Future Net Profits Plan Liability. For the year ended December 31, 2006, this expense decreased $82.5 million to $23.8 million from $106.3 million for 2005. This decrease reflects a smaller change in future oil and gas prices as compared to 2005 when we experienced significant increases in prices. Since the prices used in the calculation were much more comparable in the year-end 2006 calculation to that of the 2005 calculation, the degree of increase was much less in 2006. This liability is a significant management estimate. Adjustments to the liability are subject to estimation and may change dramatically from period-to-period based on assumptions used for production rates, reserve quantities, commodity pricing, discount rates, production tax rates, and production costs.
Interest expense. Interest expense increased by $308,000 to $8.5 million for 2006 compared to $8.2 million for 2005. The increase reflected an increase in our average outstanding borrowings and higher interest rates on the floating rate portion of our long-term debt. We also capitalized $3.5 million in 2006 compared to $1.9 million in 2005.
Income tax expense. Income tax expense totaled $105.3 million for 2006 and $86.3 million in 2005, resulting in effective tax rates of 35.7 percent and 36.3 percent, respectively. The effective rate change from 2005 reflected changes in the mix of the highest marginal state tax rates as a result of enacted Texas margin tax legislation, the benefit of estimated percentage depletion for both federal and state income taxes, acquisition and drilling activity, and also reflected other permanent differences including differing estimated effects between years of the domestic production activities deduction.
The current portion of income tax expense in 2006 was $30.5 million compared to $80.8 million in 2005. These amounts comprised 29 percent and 94 percent of total income tax expense for the respective periods. The decrease resulted from a significant increase in drilling activity, whereby we deducted intangible drilling costs in the year it was incurred and reduced our current taxable income.
Other Liquidity and Capital Resource Information
Pension Benefits
Substantially all of our employees who meet age and service requirements participate in a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, "Employers’ Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans", an amendment of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 requires the Company to recognize the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation) of its pension plan in the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as either an asset or a liability, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. At December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006, we had a recorded balance of $2.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively, of pre-tax loss in accumulated other comprehensive income as a result of this new pronouncement. We believe this obligation will be funded from future cash flow from operating activities. For purposes of calculating our obligation under the plan, we have used an expected return on plan assets of 7.5 percent. We think this rate of return is appropriate over the long-term given the 60 percent equity and 40 percent debt securities mix of investment of plan assets and the historical rate of return provided by equity and debt securities since the 1920s. Our actual rate of return was 6.5 percent for 2007 and was 14.1 percent for 2006. The difference in investment income using our projected rate of return compared to our actual rates of return for the past two years was not material and will not have a material effect on the results of operation or cash flow from operating activities in future years.
For the 2007 plan year, a 0.20 percentage point increase in the discount rate and a 0.50 percentage point increase in the lump sum interest rate, netted with a larger than expected increase in base salaries and an increase in new participants, caused a $161,000 increase in the projected benefit obligation of the plan. We do not believe this change was material and project that it will not have a material effect on the results of operations or on cash flow from operating activities in future periods.
We also have a supplemental non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covers certain management employees. There are no plan assets for this plan. For the 2007 plan year, a 0.20 percentage point increase in the discount rate and a 0.50 percentage point increase in the lump sum interest rate caused a $62,000 decrease in the projected benefit obligation for this plan. This plan’s accumulated benefit obligation was $1.0 million at December 31, 2007, and $1.5 million at December 31, 2006. We believe this obligation will be funded from future cash flow from operating activities.
Accounting Matters
We refer you to Note 4 - Income Taxes and Note 5 - Long-term Debt in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for information regarding accounting matters related to FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” and FASB Staff Position APB 14-a, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)”.
In September 2006 the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements”, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 will be effective as of the beginning of the Company’s 2008 fiscal year. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 has no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, however, it will require changes in certain disclosures.
In February 2007 the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities”, which expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. SFAS No. 159 allows entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. If a company elects the fair value option for an eligible item, changes in that item's fair value in subsequent reporting periods must be recognized in current earnings. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to draw comparisons between entities that elect different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. If elected, SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. SFAS No. 159 will be effective for the Company beginning with the 2008 fiscal year. The Company did not elect the fair value option. There is no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Environmental
St. Mary’s compliance with applicable environmental regulations has not resulted in any significant capital expenditures or materially adverse effects to our liquidity or results of operations. We believe we are in substantial compliance with environmental regulations and do not currently foresee that material expenditures will be required in the future. However, we are unable to predict the impact that future compliance with regulations may have on future capital expenditures, liquidity, and results of operations.
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is provided under the captions “Commodity Price Risk and Interest Rate Risk,” “Summary of Oil and Gas Production Hedges in Place,” and “Summary of Interest Rate Hedges in Place” in Item 7 above and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The Consolidated Financial Statements that constitute Item 8 follow the text of this report. An index to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules appears in Item 15(a) of this report.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purposes discussed above as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
To the Stockholders’ of St. Mary Land & Exploration Company
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
(i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(ii)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and
(iii)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007.
The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. That report immediately follows this report.
/s/ ANTHONY J. BEST
/s/ DAVID W. HONEYFIELD
Anthony J. Best
David W. Honeyfield
President and Chief Executive Officer
Senior Vice President - Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
February 21, 2008
February 21, 2008
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
St. Mary Land & Exploration Company and Subsidiaries
Denver, Colorado
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of St. Mary Land & Exploration Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, of the Company, and our report dated February 21, 2008, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Denver, Colorado
February 21, 2008
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this Item concerning St. Mary’s Directors and corporate governance is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the captions “Election of Directors,” “Nominees for Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance” and “Board and Committee Meetings” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2007. The information required by this Item concerning St. Mary’s executive officers is incorporated by reference to the information provided in Part I-Item 4A - EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT, included in this Form 10-K.
The information required by this Item concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2007.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the captions, “Director Compensation,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Executive Compensation and Summary Compensation Table,” “Summary Compensation Table,” “Grants of Plan-Based Awards,” “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,” “Nonqualified Deferred Compensation,” “Option Exercises and Stock Vested,” “Retirement Plans,” “Pension Benefits,” “Equity Compensation Plans,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Compensation Committee Report,” “Employee Agreements and Termination of Employment,” and “Change-of-Control Arrangements” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2007.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTER
The information required by this Item concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2007.
The information required by this Item concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the caption “Equity Compensation Plans” in Part II, Item 5