ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Operations
St. Mary’s exploration, development, and acquisition activities and oil and gas properties are focused in five core operating areas: the Rocky Mountain region; the Mid-Continent region; the ArkLaTex region; the Permian Basin region; and the Gulf Coast region. Our Hanging Woman Basin project is within our Rocky Mountain region and is managed by personnel from our Billings, Montana office. Information concerning each of our major areas of operations is shown below with the summary of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2006.
Rocky Mountain Region. Nance Petroleum Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Mary, has conducted operations on behalf of the Company in the Williston Basin in eastern Montana and western North Dakota since 1991. Our office in Billings, Montana has a full-time staff of 112 people. We have expanded our operations into the Greater Green River, Powder River, Big Horn, and Wind River basins of Wyoming over the past several years as a result of acquisitions. The largest growth in the region came in late 2002 and early 2003 with significant property acquisitions from Choctaw, Burlington Resources, and Flying J. These transactions brought with them a tremendous acreage position that has precipitated additional growth in this region.
St. Mary spent $161.3 million in 2006 on exploration, development, and acquisitions in the Rocky Mountain region including Hanging Woman Basin, with $146.4 million directed towards drilling and leasing activities. In 2005, $197.0 million was spent in the Rockies, including $22.9 million at Hanging Woman Basin. The relative decrease in total capital from the prior year reflects the Agate and Wold acquisitions that occurred in 2005. In recent years, our conventional Rockies program has focused on the horizontal Bakken play, although the level of activity is decreasing in 2007. We continue to develop the Red River formation using smaller 3-D seismic surveys. We have successfully used 3-D seismic imaging to delineate structure and porosity development in this formation. As a result of transactions in 2004 and 2005, including Goldmark, Agate, and Wold, we have acquired a position in a number of legacy oil fields in
the Big Horn and Wind River basins, as well as a presence in the Greater Green River Basin. Production in 2006 from conventional oil and gas in the Rockies was 37.5 BCFE, 79 percent of which was oil. This represents an increase of one percent from production of 37.2 BCFE for 2005. Proved reserves for conventional Rockies assets in 2006 were 389.6 BCFE, 92 percent of which were proved developed and 81 percent of which were oil. This represents a decline of three percent from 2005 year-end proved reserves. Reserves declined in 2006 as our production was not replaced by our drilling or acquisition activity. Our drilling, while successful overall, resulted in more marginally productive wells in the Bakken formation during 2006 as we near the end of that specific drilling program. Additionally, reserves and production were negatively impacted by our inability to secure a drilling rig in the southern Rockies for most of the year.
The Elm Coulee Field in the Rockies is the highest value field in the region at year-end 2006, with proved reserves of 43.8 BCFE and a PV-10 value of $143.0 million. The reserves in this field are predominately oil and the Bakken is the formation of primary interest. This field comprises approximately seven percent of the entire Company’s PV-10 value of $2.2 billion and is represented by interest in 89 gross wells with an average working interest of 54 percent.
Another significant drilling program in the Rockies is at our Hanging Woman Basin coalbed methane development in the northern Powder River Basin. In 2006, we spent a total of $30.4 million developing this program. We participated in 138 wells, 132 of which were operated, as well as the build out of the necessary infrastructure to operate in the area. Production from Hanging Woman Basin began in mid-December 2004, was 0.5 Bcf in 2005, and quadrupled to 2.0 Bcf in 2006. Due to regulatory and permitting delays, significant dewatering time, and low production rates per well, it will take a number of years to develop the field to the point of having production volumes that are meaningful to our total production profile. Even so, we expect to see significant percentage increases in annual production for several years. Proved reserves at December 31, 2006, were 33.4 Bcf, 91 percent of which were proved developed. This represents a 32 percent increase in proved reserves year-over-year. All of these reserves are located on our acreage in Wyoming.
Our capital budget for the Rocky Mountain region represents the largest portion of our 2007 drilling budget at approximately $213 million for 2007, with $155 million budgeted for the conventional Rockies program and $58 million budgeted for activities at Hanging Woman Basin. In the conventional Rockies program, we plan to drill or participate in 178 gross wells in 2007. We will operate 81 percent of the planned capital expenditures forecasted for the conventional Rockies. Our operated activities are focused on expanding a horizontal re-entry program targeting the Madison and Mission Canyon formations, drilling and re-entering wells in the legacy Murphy Dome oil field, and targeting the Lewis and Almond formations in the Greater Green River Basin. Fewer operated wells are planned for the Bakken program in 2007 as this successful grass roots program is nearing the end of primary development. However, we do plan to attempt a handful of horizontal re-entry wells targeting this formation. We will continue to exploit what we believe to be a competitive advantage in the Red River formation in 2007. The plans of our non-operated partners in 2007 are dominated by horizontal Bakken, Madison, and Mission Canyon wells, as well as a significant number of wells at the Atlantic Rim coalbed methane development in Wyoming. At Hanging Woman Basin, our plan is to drill or participate in 258 wells in 2007. All of the activity in the Hanging Woman Basin this year is scheduled to occur in Wyoming. We will operate 84 percent of the gross well activity and 87 percent of the planned capital expenditures. Our operated drilling program anticipates growing to a four rig program during the year. The majority of our operated activity will focus on the shallow and intermediate coal benches. Additional horizontal wells are planned for the deep coal package during 2007, and we will continue to monitor the results of the four deep horizontal wells that were drilled in late 2006. We do not expect to have enough information to make an assessment of the horizontal program until late 2007 or early 2008.
Mid-Continent Region. St. Mary has been active in the Mid-Continent region since 1973. Operations for the region are managed by our 50 full-time employees in Tulsa, Oklahoma. We have been active in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma since our entry into the region and have begun operating in the Arkoma Basin in eastern Oklahoma in recent years. Our long history of operations and proprietary geologic knowledge enables us to sustain economic development and exploration programs despite periods of adverse industry conditions. We apply current technology through the use of hydraulic fracturing, innovative well completion techniques, and horizontal drilling to accelerate production and associated cash flow from the region’s tight gas reservoirs and developing plays.
In 2006, we spent $214.3 million in the Mid-Continent region on exploration, development, and acquisition activity, which is 58 percent more than the $135.6 million spent in 2005. The increase in 2006 is the result of drilling and service cost inflation and additional activity in our horizontal Arkoma program targeting the Wapanucka limestone, Cromwell sandstone, and Woodford shale formations, as well as a moderate ramp up of activity in the Constitution field and throughout the Anadarko Basin. We were also much more active in the leasing aspect of our business in 2006, spending $17.7 million, which is almost four times the amount spent on leasing in 2005. Mid-Continent production in 2006 was 29.8 BCFE, 92 percent of which was natural gas. This is an increase of 13 percent from the 26.5 BCFE produced in 2005. Proved reserves at the end of 2006 were 170.7 BCFE, 94 percent of which were proved developed and 95 percent of which were natural gas. Year over year, proved reserves dropped three percent from 175.4 BCFE at December 31, 2005. The Mid-Continent decrease was primarily caused by a downward price revision of 28.9 BCFE in 2006, as natural gas prices used to calculate SEC proved reserves declined 44 percent year-over-year to $5.64 per MMBtu. While we are subject to the volatility of commodity prices with respect to the calculation of year-end SEC proved reserves, we believe our active hedging program protects our economics despite periodic swings in commodity prices that can result in negative reserve revisions due to price reductions. Although we may be helped by the financial protection offered by our derivative contracts, our individual well economics must also meet acceptable return criteria in order to proceed with drilling activity.
The Paggi Broussard #1 well operated by our Mid-Continent region is the highest single value property in the Company, with 8.5 BCFE of proved reserves and a PV-10 value of $47.4 million as of December 31, 2006. This single well represents two percent of our entire PV-10 value of $2.2 billion. The well was drilled in late 2004 and has shown remarkably little decline in the time since it was placed online. The Paggi Broussard #2 was drilled and placed online in mid-2006 and is the second highest value well and fifth largest value entity in the Company with proved reserves of 3.2 BCFE and a PV-10 value of $17.2 million as of December 31, 2006. The largest value field in the Mid-Continent is Northeast Mayfield which produces primarily from the Morrow and Atoka/Granite Wash formations. At the end of 2006 the proved reserves at Northeast Mayfield were 37.3 BCFE and the PV-10 value was $88.1 million.
The 2007 capital expenditure budget for the Mid-Continent region is $206 million, 82 percent of which will be operated by the Company. The largest component of the budget is our program in the Arkoma basin, where 17 operated wells are planned. The majority of these will be horizontal wells targeting the Woodford shale formation. Activity in the horizontal Arkoma program is currently focused on the Woodford shale as it is the deepest of the three zones of interest, and by drilling to the Woodford we will hold the acreage through that depth. We continue to evaluate our drilling and completion efforts in the horizontal Arkoma program to ensure we are improving and maximizing the potential of this program. The next most significant program is the Atoka/Granite Wash program in the Mayfield development area where we will drill or participate in 30 gross wells in 2007, 18 of which will be operated by the Company. The production profile of Atoka/Granite Wash wells is such that approximately 50 percent of the expected total production is recovered within the first year, and therefore these wells can be more economically sensitive to commodity price volatility. As a result, we have hedged the anticipated production from the planned 2007 Atoka/Granite Wash program for the next two years to ensure that our economic thresholds
are being met. We evaluate the commodity price and cost environment prior to drilling each well to ensure the well project meets our economic standards. However, our hedging program provides us the flexibility to continue drilling should operational or leasehold issues dictate moving forward with the program when the current economics for individual wells may be currently unfavorable. The Company has also budgeted capital for wells targeting the Springer and Britt formations in 2007.
ArkLaTex Region. Our 24 full-time employees in Shreveport, Louisiana manage St. Mary’s operations in the ArkLaTex region. The ArkLaTex region was the first operating office for the Company, originating from the acquisition of oil and gas assets from T.L. James & Company in 1992. For years the activities of this region focused on the tight sandstone Cotton Valley and Travis Peak formations in the region. In recent years, we have added development of limestone carbonates in the ArkLaTex, including the James, Glen Rose, Rodessa, and Pettit formations.
The ArkLaTex region spent $88.0 million in 2006 on exploration, development, and acquisition activities, which is double the $44.0 million spent in 2005. The primary drivers of this increase in capital were an increase in activity at Elm Grove and an escalation of cost in our horizontal limestone program related to a new completion technique. Our non-operated interests in the Elm Grove Field were purchased in late 2004, and since that time the ownership in the field has consolidated considerably. This consolidation has allowed the remaining owners to accelerate development of the Lower Cotton Valley formation which has historically been the target interval in this field. The increase in activity has occurred in areas of the field where we have relatively higher working interests, thereby increasing our capital expenditures in the field. In the horizontal limestone program, we began using a new completion technique in 2006 that allows us to isolate sections of the horizontal wellbore. By isolating different sections we can complete and stimulate each isolated section in a manner that is optimal for that particular segment of the formation. While this technique increased our costs significantly, it also increased our production and reserves per well, thereby economically justifying the additional expenditure. The region’s 2006 production was down two percent to 10.5 BCFE. The production in the region is 92 percent gas. We experienced a number of operational and timing issues during 2006, primarily associated with compression, which contributed to the decline in production. Our proved reserves at year-end 2006 were 159.5 BCFE, 44 percent of which were proved developed and 96 percent of which were natural gas. This is a 43 percent increase over 2005 year-end proved reserves of 111.3 BCFE.
The Elm Grove Field is the highest value field in the ArkLaTex region at year-end 2006, with proved reserves of 79.5 BCFE and a PV-10 value of $107.8 million. Elm Grove comprises approximately five percent of the entire Company’s PV-10 value. We own interests in 320 wells in the field and our working interest ranges from 0.2 percent to 37.3 percent, with the higher working interests in the southern portion of our acreage. The reserves in this field are comprised of natural gas. The Lower Cotton Valley and Hosston formations are the major reserve contributors in this field.
Our capital budget for the ArkLaTex in 2007 is $131 million, 57 percent of which will be operated by us. The largest part of this year’s budget relates to our horizontal limestone program where 22 wells are planned for 2007. In 2006, the Company increased its acreage position targeting these limestone formations by 63 percent to approximately 43,000 net acres. We plan to dedicate two rigs to this horizontal program throughout the year. Elm Grove also represents a significant portion of the region’s capital budget as development in this field continues to move forward at an aggressive pace. A total of 87 grass roots wells are planned in the field this year, which is a substantial increase from the prior year. In addition to the continued pursuit of the traditional Lower Cotton Valley target, recompletions using coiled tubing assisted fracturing that target the Hosston formation proved to be very successful in 2006. 20 such Hosston recompletions are budgeted for 2007.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin area covers a significant portion of western Texas and eastern New Mexico and is one of the major producing basins in the United States. Our holdings in the
Permian Basin resulted from a series of property acquisitions beginning in 1996. In December 2006, we acquired oil and natural gas assets in the Sweetie Peck Field in the Midland Basin in the largest acquisition in our history. To manage the significant increase in operated properties associated with the Sweetie Peck acquisition, we opened a regional office in Midland, Texas in early February 2007. Our office in Midland currently has five full-time employees.
In 2006, we spent $275.2 million on capital expenditures in the Permian basin, compared to $7.7 million in the prior year. The substantive majority of this increase related to the acquisition of oil and gas properties in the Sweetie Peck Field. The productive targets for this field are the producing formations of the Spraberry interval including the Spraberry, Leonard, and Wolfcamp formations. We also spent capital in 2006 on our successful waterflood projects in the Delaware Basin of southeastern New Mexico as well as at HJSA Field. Production from the Permian region was 3.2 BCFE in 2006 and 80 percent of the production was oil. Production increased eight percent over the prior year. Year-end 2006 proved reserves were 142.2 BCFE, 58 percent of which were proved developed and 80 percent of which were oil. This represents an increase of 185 percent from 2005 year-end reserves of 49.9 BCFE.
The Sweetie Peck Field comprises eight percent of our total proved reserves and represents the largest value field in the Company, with proved reserves at year-end 2006 of 78.0 BCFE. Currently there are 73 proved developed producing wells and our working interest in each of these wells is either 95 or 100 percent. The PV-10 value for proved developed wells in the field is $219.5 million, which equates to approximately ten percent of our entire PV-10 value.
The capital budget for 2007 in the region is $111 million, of which 80 percent will be operated by the Company. The majority of the increase relates to anticipated drilling at Sweetie Peck and certain non-operated activity in the basin. Fifty-four wells are planned in the Sweetie Peck Field for 2007, all of which will be operated by us. Other projects contemplated in this year’s budget include continued development at HJSA and infill and optimization projects at the East Shugart Delaware Unit and Parkway Delaware Unit waterflood projects.
Gulf Coast Region. St. Mary’s presence in south Louisiana dates to the early 1900s when our founders acquired our namesake property in St. Mary Parish, Louisiana abutting the Gulf of Mexico. These 24,914 acres of fee lands yielded $5.0 million of gross oil and gas royalty revenue in 2006. Our Gulf Coast regional presence expanded as a result of the acquisition of King Ranch Energy, Inc. in 1999. In recent years, our team in Houston, Texas has developed an expertise applying DHI technology. This group of 19 full-time employees manages St. Mary’s diverse activities in our Gulf Coast and Permian Basin regions.
Our 2006 capital expenditures in the Gulf Coast region totaled $65.5 million, which is 78 percent higher than the $36.8 million spent in 2005. The increase was due to a ramp up in activity for our DHI program as well as our participation as non-operator in an intermediate deep water project. We were successful in six out of eight tests in our DHI program in 2006. We had meaningful operated exploratory successes with the Clyde Leger 1 well at the Duson prospect and with the State Tract 345-1 at the Holly prospect. We also participated in two successful new drills and two successful recompletions in the Judge Digby Field located in Point Coupee Parish outside of Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Offshore, the Company had a non-operated exploration success with the Vermillion 101 well, which began flowing to sales in December 2006. Also, in our intermediate deep water program we had an initial discovery with our operating partner at the Zloty prospect where initial production is expected in mid-2008. Production for 2006 in the Gulf Coast region was 9.7 BCFE, 90 percent of which was natural gas. This is a four percent increase in production from the 9.3 BCFE produced in 2005. The increase in production was a result of the successes mentioned above that were brought online in 2006, as well as contribution from a significant royalty well on our fee acreage that produced for a portion of the year. Proved reserves as of year-end 2006, including those related to the fee properties, were 32.2 BCFE, of which 80 percent were proved developed and 93 percent were natural gas. This is a seven percent increase in proved reserves from 30.0 BCFE as of year-end 2005.
The most significant field in the Gulf Coast region is the Judge Digby Field. As of the end of December 2006, this field had a PV-10 value of $34.3 million with 9.7 BCFE of proved reserves. This accounts for less than two percent of the Company’s PV-10 value.
Our exploration and development budget in the Gulf Coast region for 2007 is $60 million, which consists of activity for both onshore and offshore projects in Texas and Louisiana as well as low to moderate risk DHI prospects in state and federal waters of the Gulf of Mexico. There is also capital budgeted in 2007 related to intermediate deep water projects for both new prospects as well as commitments resulting from our 2005 and 2006 successes. The majority of this activity will be operated by others as we plan to operate approximately 14 percent of the 2007 forecasted drilling projects.
Acquisitions and Divestitures
We spent a total of $282.9 million on acquisitions of proved and unproved oil and gas properties in 2006. Proved reserves contributed from our acquisitions were 99.2 BCFE, of which 49 percent were proved developed and 72 percent were oil. The most significant acquisition this year was that of the oil and gas properties in the Sweetie Peck Field in the Permian Basin from several private parties in December 2006. The adjusted purchase price for these assets was $247.6 million, which is subject to regular and customary post-closing adjustments. At year-end 2006 there were 78.0 BCFE of proved reserves related to this transaction, 48 percent of which were proved developed and 78 percent of which were oil. Our other acquisitions where smaller, niche transactions and related primarily to the Rockies and Mid-Continent regions. In 2006, we also divested properties with 3.1 BCFE of proved reserves, the majority of which related to a tax-deferred exchange in which we exchanged non-core properties in the Uinta Basin of Utah for properties in Richland County, Montana.
Significant acquisitions prior to 2006 include the 2005 acquisitions of Agate Petroleum, Inc. and properties from Wold Oil Properties, Inc. In 2004, we acquired oil and gas properties from Goldmark Engineering, Inc., in the Rocky Mountain region and the Elm Grove Field from Border Company in the ArkLaTex region.
Reserves
The following table presents summary information with respect to the estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006. For all years presented Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”) prepared the reserve information for the Company’s coalbed natural gas projects at Hanging Woman Basin in the northern Powder River Basin as well as St. Mary’s non-operated coalbed methane interest in the Green River Basin. We have engaged Ryder Scott Company to review internal engineering estimates for 80 percent of the PV-10 value of our proven conventional oil and gas reserves in 2006. In 2005 and 2004, Ryder Scott prepared the reserve estimates for at least 80 percent of the PV-10 value of our conventional oil and gas assets. St. Mary personnel prepared the reserve estimates for the remainder of all properties. The Company emphasizes that reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and that estimates of new discoveries and undeveloped locations are more imprecise than estimates of established producing oil and gas properties. Accordingly, these estimates are expected to change as future information becomes available. The PV-10 values shown in the following table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated proved oil and gas reserves owned by St. Mary. Neither prices nor costs have been escalated. You should read the following table along with the section entitled “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-Estimates of oil and gas reserves are not precise.”
(1) Reserve life represents the estimated proved reserves at the dates indicated divided by actual production for the preceding 12-month period.
Production
The following table summarizes the average volumes and realized prices, including and excluding the effects of hedging, of oil and gas produced from properties in which St. Mary held an interest during the periods indicated. Also presented is a production cost per MCFE summary for the Company.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2006, St. Mary had working interests in 2,234 gross (1,050 net) productive oil wells and 3,359 gross (895 net) productive gas wells. Productive wells are either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production although currently shut in. One or more completions in the same wellbore are counted as one well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a
gas well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
Drilling Activity
All of our drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis with independent drilling contractors. We do not own any drilling equipment. The following table sets forth the wells drilled and recompleted in which St. Mary participated during each of the three years indicated:
(1) Does not include three, nine, and seven gross wells completed on St. Mary’s fee lands during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in which we have only a royalty interest.
Acreage
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases, fee properties, mineral servitudes, and lease options held by St. Mary as of December 31, 2006. Undeveloped acreage includes leasehold interests that may already have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
(1) Developed acreage is acreage assigned to producing wells for the spacing unit of the producing formation. Developed acreage in certain of St. Mary’s properties that include multiple formations with different well spacing requirements may be considered undeveloped for certain formations, but have only been included as developed acreage in the presentation above.
(2) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated proved reserves.
(3) St. Mary holds an overriding royalty interest in an additional 36,021 gross acres in Utah.
(4) Includes interests in Alabama, Kansas, Nebraska and South Dakota.
ITEM 3.