Item 2 of Part I of this report.
Successful efforts method of accounting. Generally accepted accounting principles provide for two alternative methods for the oil and gas industry to use in accounting for oil and gas producing activities. These two methods are generally known in our industry as the full cost method and the successful efforts method. Both methods are widely used. The methods are different enough that in many circumstances the same set of facts will provide materially different financial statement results within a given year. We have chosen the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities, and a detailed description is included in Note 1 of Part IV, Item 15 of this report.
Revenue recognition. Our revenue recognition policy is significant because revenue is a key component of our results of operations and our forward-looking statements contained in our analysis of liquidity and capital resources. We derive our revenue primarily from the sale of produced natural gas and crude oil. We report revenue as the gross amounts we receive before taking into account production taxes and transportation costs, which are reported as separate expenses. Revenue is recorded in the month our production is delivered to the purchaser, but payment is generally received between 30 and 90 days after the date of production. No revenue is recognized unless it is determined that title to the product has transferred to a purchaser. At the end of each month we make estimates of the amount of production delivered to the purchaser and the price we will receive. We use our knowledge of our properties, their historical performance, NYMEX and local spot market prices, and other factors as the basis for these estimates. Variances between our estimates and the actual amounts received are recorded in the month payment is received. A ten percent change in our year-end revenue accrual would have impacted net income before tax by $8.5 million in 2008.
Crude oil and natural gas hedging. Our crude oil and natural gas hedging contracts are intended and usually qualify for cash flow deferral hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. Under this accounting pronouncement a majority of the gain or loss from a contract qualifying as a cash flow hedge is deferred as to statement of operations recognition. The position reflected in the statement of operations is based on actual settlements. If our natural gas and crude oil hedge contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or we chose not to use this hedge accounting methodology, our periodic consolidated statements of operations could include significant changes in the estimate of non-cash derivative gain or loss due to swings in the value of these contracts. Consequently, we would report a different amount of oil and gas hedge loss in our statements of operations. These fluctuations could be especially significant in a volatile pricing environment such as what we have encountered over the last three years. The amounts recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $223.5 million of income, $170.0 million of loss, and $69.0 million of income for 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively, would have increased or decreased net income after tax if our hedges did not qualify as cash flow deferral hedges under SFAS No. 133.
Change in Net Profits Plan Liability. We record the estimated liability of future payments for our Net Profits Plan. The estimated liability is calculated based on a number of assumptions, including estimates of oil and gas reserves, recurring and workover lease operating expense, production and ad valorem tax rates, present value discount factors, and pricing assumptions. Additional discussion is included in the analysis in the above section titled Overview of the Company, under the heading Net Profits Plan. In December 2007 our Board approved an incentive compensation plan restructuring whereby the Net Profits Plan was replaced with a long-term incentive program utilizing performance shares. As a result, the 2007 Net Profits Plan pool was the last pool established.
Asset retirement obligations. We are required to recognize an estimated liability for future costs associated with the abandonment of our oil and gas properties. We base our estimate of the liability on our historical experience in abandoning oil and gas wells projected into the future based on our current understanding of federal and state regulatory requirements. Our present value calculations require us to estimate the economic lives of our properties, assume what future inflation rates apply to external estimates, and determine what credit adjusted risk-free rate to use. The impact to the consolidated statement of operations from these estimates is reflected in our depreciation, depletion, and amortization calculations and occurs over the remaining life of our oil and gas properties.
Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets. Our property and equipment are recorded at cost. An impairment allowance is provided on unproven property when we determine that the property will not be developed or the carrying value will not be realized. We evaluate the realizability of our proved properties and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may be appropriate. Our impairment test compares the expected undiscounted future net revenues from property, using escalated pricing, with the related net capitalized cost of the property at the end of each period. When the net capitalized costs exceed the undiscounted future net revenue of a property, the cost of the property is written down to our estimate of fair value, which is determined by applying a discount rate that we believe is indicative of the current market. Our criteria for an acceptable internal rate of return are subject to change over time. Different pricing assumptions or discount rates could result in a different calculated impairment. We recorded a $302.2 million impairment of proved oil and gas properties in 2008. This impairment was primarily due to downward price adjustments to reserves and declining performance for properties primarily located in the Gulf Coast and in South Texas, as well as for gas properties in the Rocky Mountain region.
Income taxes. We provide for deferred income taxes on the difference between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in our financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109. This difference will result in taxable income or deductions in future years when the reported amount of the asset or liability is recovered or settled, respectively. Considerable judgment is required in determining when these events may occur and whether recovery of an asset is more likely than not. Additionally, our federal and state income tax returns are generally not filed before the consolidated financial statements are prepared, therefore, we estimate the tax basis of our assets and liabilities at the end of each period as well as the effects of tax rate changes, tax credits, and net operating and capital loss carryforwards and carrybacks. Adjustments related to differences between the estimates we used and actual amounts we report are recorded in the periods in which we file our income tax
returns. These adjustments and changes in our estimates of asset recovery and liability settlement could have an impact on our results of operations. A one percent change in our effective tax rate would have changed our calculated income tax expense by $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Additional Comparative Data in Tabular Format:
Components of Revenue Increases (Decreases):
Our product mix as a percentage of total oil and gas revenue and production:
Information regarding the effects of oil and gas hedging activity:
Information regarding the components of exploration expense:
Comparison of Financial Results and Trends between 2008 and 2007
Oil and gas production revenue. Production increased seven percent to 114.6 BCFE for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared with 107.5 BCFE for the year ended December 31, 2007. Production for the year ended December 31, 2007, includes approximately 6.8 BCFE related to non-core properties divested throughout 2008. The following table presents the regional changes in our production and oil and gas revenues and costs between the two years:
We grew daily production by approximately 18.6 MMCFE during 2008 compared to 2007. The largest regional increase occurred in the ArkLaTex region as a result of the success in the Cotton Valley and James Lime programs. Production in the Gulf Coast region increased as a result of two acquisitions of properties targeting the shallow Olmos gas formation that were made in the second half of 2007 as well as several successful offshore wells. The production growth in the Permian region is the result of continued development of the Wolfberry
assets at Sweetie Peck and Halff East. The declines in production in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions are the result of the divestiture of non-core properties in these regions, which resulted in a smaller production base for 2008.
Oil and gas realized hedge gain (loss). We recorded a realized hedge loss of $101.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, mainly related to settlements on oil hedges. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded a realized hedge gain of $24.5 million mainly due to favorable settlements on natural gas hedges.
Marketed gas system revenue and expense. Marketed gas system revenue increased $32.2 million to $77.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared with $45.1 million for the comparable period of 2007. Concurrent with the increase in marketed gas system revenue, marketed gas system expense increased $29.7 million to $72.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared with $42.5 million for the comparable period of 2007. The net margin has stayed consistent with historical performance. We expect that marketed gas system revenue and expense will continue to coincide with increases and decreases in production and our net realized price.
Other revenues. Other revenues decreased $6.6 million to $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared with $8.7 for 2007. The decrease is due primarily to a $5.2 million gain recognized in 2007 associated with a global insurance settlement attributed to Hurricane Rita. As of December 31, 2008, all Hurricane Rita plugging and abandonment activities have been completed.
Gain on sale of proved properties. We recorded a gain on sale of proved properties of $63.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, mainly related to the Abraxas divestiture in January of 2008. The final gain on sale of proved properties will be adjusted for normal post-closing adjustments and is expected to be finalized during the first quarter of 2009. We expect to continue to evaluate potential divestitures of non-strategic properties.
Oil and gas production expenses. Total production costs increased $53.1 million or 24 percent to $271.4 million for 2008, from $218.2 million in 2007. Total oil and gas production costs per MCFE increased $0.33 to $2.36 for 2008, compared with $2.03 for 2007. This increase is comprised of the following:
·
A $0.05 increase in overall transportation cost on a per MCFE basis was driven by the addition of Olmos shallow gas assets in the Maverick Basin that were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as recently completed wells which have higher transportation costs
·
A $0.13 increase in production taxes on a per MCFE basis due to the increase in realized prices between periods, particularly in the oil-weighted Rocky Mountain and Permian regions
·
A $0.10 increase in recurring lease operating expense on a per MCFE basis is related to higher costs, particularly in oil-weighted regions, for items such as fuel and fluid disposal and an increase in the Gulf Coast region due to wells acquired and developed in South Texas during the fourth quarter of 2007
·
A $0.05 overall increase in workover lease operating expense on a per MCFE basis relating to workover charges in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions.
Depletion, depreciation, amortization and asset retirement obligation liability accretion. DD&A increased $86.7 million, or 38 percent, to $314.3 million in 2008 compared with $227.6 million in 2007. DD&A expense per MCFE increased 29 percent to $2.74 in 2008 compared to $2.12 in 2007. This increase is due to a higher per unit rate associated with our acquisition and drilling costs in 2008 and 2007 caused by overall upward cost pressure in the industry in recent years. Additionally, this increase reflects the costs of production facilities in the offshore Gulf Coast that have increased significantly in recent years and that are now impacting our DD&A rate as those projects begin production. The DD&A per MCFE rate was further affected by downward revisions of 244.2 BCFE of proved reserves due to pricing and performance between December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007, causing a general increase in DD&A.
Exploration expense. Exploration expense increased $1.4 million or two percent to $60.1 million in 2008 compared with $58.7 million for 2007. The increase is due to a $2.8 million increase in drilling arrangements and a $9.0 million increase in exploration overhead. These increases were offset by a $2.8 million decrease in geological and geophysical expense as well as a $7.6 million decrease related to exploratory dry hole expense due to fewer and less expensive dry holes.
Impairment of proved properties. We recorded a $302.2 million impairment of proved oil and gas properties in 2008 compared to no impairment in 2007. This impairment was primarily due to downward price adjustments to reserves and declining performance for properties primarily located in the Gulf Coast and in South Texas, as well as for gas properties in the Rocky Mountain region. Further decreases in oil and gas commodity prices could cause additional impairments of proved properties.
Impairment of Goodwill. We recorded a $9.5 million impairment of goodwill in 2008. The goodwill was the result of our purchase of Agate Petroleum, Inc. in January 2005. The impairment was a result of downward price adjustments to reserves for properties located in our Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions and represented our entire goodwill balance.
Abandonment and impairment of unproved properties. During the year, we abandoned or impaired $39.0 million of unproved properties. Approximately $13.4 million related to acreage to which we had assigned value in 2007 acquisitions targeting the Olmos shallow gas formation. The remaining write-offs relate to acreage that we believe we either will not be able to hold in the current period of limited capital availability or to acreage that we do not believe will be prospective. If commodity prices continue to decline we could see additional abandonments and impairments of unproved property as we have less capital to invest for exploration and development activities.
General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $19.4 million or 32 percent to $79.5 million for 2008, compared with $60.1 million for 2007. G&A increased $0.13 to $0.69 per MCFE for 2008 compared to $0.56 per MCFE for the same period in 2007 as G&A grew at a faster rate than the seven percent increase in production. A significant increase in employee count has resulted in an increase in base employee compensation, including taxes and benefits, of approximately $23.9 million between 2008 and 2007. A significant driver of this headcount increase has been the conversion from contract lease operators to internal lease operators.
An increase in 2008 oil and gas commodity prices triggered additional Net Profits Plan. Additionally, an increased percentage of the distribution dollars under the Net Profits Plan associated with general and administrative expense contributed to the current period realized expense associated with the Net Profits Plan increase by $4.4 million in 2008 compared with the same period in 2007. In the current commodity price environment, we do not expect this trend to continue in 2009.
Cash bonus and long-term incentive compensation expense increased by $8.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared with the same period in 2007. The increase results from the application of the Cash Bonus Plan as amended on March 28, 2008 and an increase in our employee count.
The amounts described above were offset by a $9.1 million increase in the amount of G&A that was allocated to exploration expense and an $8.2 million increase in COPAS overhead reimbursements. COPAS overhead reimbursements from operations increased due to an increase in our operated well count from our drilling program.
Change in Net Profits Plan liability. For the year ended December 31, 2008, this non-cash item was a benefit of $34.0 million compared to an expense of $50.8 million for the same period in 2007. Significant decreases in oil and gas commodity prices during the last half of 2008 and payments out of the plan have decreased the estimated liability for the future amounts to be paid to plan participants. This liability is a significant management estimate. Adjustments to the liability are subject to estimation and may change dramatically from period to period based on assumptions used for production rates, reserve quantities, commodity pricing, discount rates, tax rates, and production costs.
Bad debt expense. We recorded $16.7 million of bad debt expense in 2008, of which $16.6 million was a result of SemGroup, L.P. and certain of its North American subsidiaries filing for bankruptcy protection. Certain SemGroup entities had purchased a portion of our crude oil production. This amount related to oil produced in June and July of 2008 that was fully reserved in the year ended December 31, 2008.
Interest expense. Interest expense increased by $380,000 to $20.3 million for 2008 compared to $19.9 million for 2007. The increase reflects an increase in our average outstanding borrowings offset by lower interest rates in 2008 compared with 2007. We also capitalized $3.7 million of interest in 2008 compared to $5.4 million in 2007.
Income tax expense. Income tax expense totaled $59.9 million for 2008 and $110.6 million for 2007, resulting in effective tax rates of 39.5 percent and 36.8 percent, respectively. The effective rate change from 2007 was primarily due to the impact of goodwill impairment, changes in the mix of the highest marginal state tax rates, and also reflects other permanent differences including differing estimated effects between years of the domestic production activities deduction.
The current portion of income tax expense in 2008 is $19.2 million compared to $17.6 million in 2007. These amounts are 32 percent and 16 percent of the total income tax expense for the respective periods.
Comparison of Financial Results and Trends between 2007 and 2006
Oil and gas production revenue. Production increased 16 percent to 107.5 BCFE for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with 92.8 BCFE for the year ended December 31, 2006. The following table presents the regional changes in our production and oil and gas revenues and costs between the two years:
The revenue increase in this table also reflects the difference in oil and gas prices received between the comparable periods. The production increases are offset by natural declines in production from older properties to result in the net increase in production between the years presented. Additional production costs reflect increases resulting from inflation and competition for resources.
Oil and gas realized hedge gain (loss). The 13 percent decrease in total oil and gas hedge gain to $24.5 million was caused by a change in the composition of our hedge position and changes in oil and gas commodity prices.
Marketed gas system revenue and expense. Marketed gas system revenue increased $24.2 million to $45.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with $20.9 million for the comparable period of 2006. The increase is due to the addition of a new marketed gas system in western Oklahoma that increased the number of wells for which we currently market gas, as well as increased production in the Woodford shale formation located in Coal County, Oklahoma. Concurrent with the increase in marketed gas system revenue, marketed gas system expense increased $24.0 million to $42.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with $18.5 million for the comparable period of 2006.
Other revenues. Other revenues increased $7.8 million to $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with $942,000 for the comparable period of 2006. The increase is due primarily to a $5.2 million gain associated with a global insurance settlement attributable to Hurricane Rita. The gain calculation is net of approximately $12.1 million of costs associated with the plugging and abandonment of one offshore platform.
Oil and gas production expenses. Total production costs increased $41.6 million or 24 percent to $218.2 million for 2007, from $176.6 million in 2006. Our 2007 and 2006 acquisition of properties added $13.6 million of incremental production costs, and other wells completed in 2006 and 2007 added $13.7 million of incremental production costs in 2007 that were not reflected in 2006. The production cost increases are offset by natural declines in production costs from older properties to result in the net increase in production costs between the years presented. We experienced an increase in production taxes consistent with the increase in revenue from higher realized prices.
Total oil and gas production costs per MCFE increased $0.12 to $2.03 for 2007, compared with $1.91 for 2006. This increase is comprised of the following:
·
A $0.02 increase in overall transportation cost due to an increase in the Rocky Mountain region resulting from a change in the sale measurement point, as well as newly drilled wells with higher transportation costs
·
An $0.11 increase in recurring lease operating expense related to continued cost pressure from the oil and gas service sector
·
A $0.05 overall decrease in lease operating expense relating to workover expense, primarily in the Rockies
·
A $0.04 increase in production taxes related to increased production in the Permian region.
Depletion, depreciation, amortization and asset retirement obligation liability accretion. DD&A increased $73.1 million, or 47 percent, to $227.6 million in 2007 compared with $154.5 million in 2006. DD&A expense per MCFE increased 27 percent to $2.12 in 2007 compared to $1.67 in 2006. The increase reflects overall upward cost pressure in the industry and specifically our drilling in 2007 and 2006 that added costs at a higher per unit rate relative to the prior year’s base. The DD&A per MCFE rate was further affected by upward adjustments to reserves due to pricing differences between December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006 although this had the impact of lowering DD&A.
Exploration expense. Exploration expense increased $6.8 million or 13 percent to $58.7 million in 2007 compared with $51.9 million for 2006. This increase is due to a $7.5 million increase in geologic and geophysical expense to support a larger overall program as well as a $4.2 million increase in exploratory dry hole expense related to three wells located in the Gulf Coast region and one in the Rockies region. These increases were offset by a $4.9 million decrease in exploration overhead expense related to a reduction in amounts recorded in exploration expense related to payments under the Net Profits Plan. In 2007, we had a change in our accounting estimate to reflect the view that Net Profits Plan distributions should be reclassified to exploration overhead only for individuals who are currently employed by us and who continue to be involved in our exploration efforts. Therefore Net Profits Plan payments associated with the distributions under the Net Profits Plan for ex-employees were reclassified to general and administrative expense since there is no longer any functional link to exploration expense as there is by definition no periodic cost associated with geologic, geophysical and exploration related work by those ex-employees.
General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $21.3 million or 55 percent to $60.1 million for 2007, compared with $38.9 million for 2006. G&A increased $0.14 to $0.56 per MCFE for 2007 compared to $0.42 per MCFE for the period in 2006 as G&A grew at a faster rate than the 16 percent increase in production. A 23 percent increase in employee count has contributed to an increase in base employee
compensation, including taxes and benefits, of approximately 29 percent, or $8.5 million, between the year ended December 31, 2007, and the same period of 2006.
An increase in oil and gas prices in 2007 triggered additional Net Profits Plan payouts and has increased the amounts payable to plan participants. Additionally, an increased percentage amount of the distribution dollars under the Net Profits Plan associated with general and administrative expense contributed to the 2007 realized expense associated with the Net Profits Plan increased by $5.8 million in 2007 compared with the same period in 2006. An increase in employee count resulted in an increase in cash bonus expense of $2.4 million to $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
RSU bonus expense remained relatively flat decreasing by $100,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared with the same period in 2006. Compensation expense related to stock options for the year ended December 31, 2007, decreased $1.4 million to $437,000 from $1.9 million in the comparable period in 2006 because virtually all of the stock options are now vested. No stock options have been granted since 2004.
The amounts described above, combined with a net $5.4 million increase in other G&A expense, including office supplies and employee development, were offset by a $5.0 million decrease in the amount of G&A that was allocated to exploration expense due to the aforementioned change in our Net Profits Plan accounting estimate and a $4.3 million increase in COPAS overhead reimbursements. COPAS overhead reimbursements from operations increased due to an increase in our operated well count from our drilling program.
Change in Net Profits Plan liability. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this expense increased $27.1 million to $50.8 million from $23.8 million for 2006. This increase reflects a decrease in the discount rate used to calculate the present value of future payments from a base rate of 15 percent to 12 percent. The decrease in the discount rate to 12 percent resulted from our divestiture marketing process and our assessment that the overall market for oil and gas reserves is ever more competitive.
Interest expense. Interest expense increased by $11.4 million to $19.9 million for 2007 compared to $8.5 million for 2006. The increase reflects an increase in our average outstanding borrowings in 2007 compared with 2006. Additionally, the increase reflects that we have $287.5 million of 3.50% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding at December 31, 2007, compared with $100.0 million of 5.75% Senior Convertible Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2006. We also capitalized $5.4 million of interest in 2007 compared to $3.5 million in 2006.
Income tax expense. Income tax expense totaled $110.6 million for 2007 and $105.3 million for 2006, resulting in effective tax rate of 36.8 percent and 35.7 percent, respectively. The effective rate change from 2006 reflects changes in the mix of the highest marginal state tax rates as a result of enacted Texas margin tax legislation, the benefit of federal and state estimated percentage depletion expense, acquisition and drilling activity, and also reflects other permanent differences including differing estimated effects between years of the domestic production activities deduction.
The current portion of income tax expense in 2007 was $17.6 million compared to $30.5 million in 2006. These amounts are 16 percent and 29 percent of the total income tax expense for the respective periods. The decrease resulted from significant drilling activity reflecting the deduction of intangible drilling costs in the year incurred, thereby reducing current taxable income.
Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Information
Pension Benefits
Substantially all of our employees who meet age and service requirements participate in a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan. At December 31, 2008, and 2007, we had $4.4 million and $2.5 million, respectively, of pre-tax loss in accumulated other comprehensive income. We believe this obligation will be funded from future cash flows from operating activities. For purposes of calculating our obligation under the plan, we have used an expected return on plan assets of 7.5 percent. We think this rate of return is appropriate over a long-term given the mix of plan investments, 60 percent equity and 40 percent debt securities, and the historical rate of return provided by equity and debt securities since the 1920s. Our actual rate of return was negative 20.9 percent for 2008 and positive 6.5 percent for 2007. The difference in investment income using our projected rate of return compared to our actual rates of return was not material in the long run and will not have a material effect on results of operations or cash flows from operating activities in future years.
For the 2008 plan year, the discount rate assumption was changed from 6.1 percent to 6.6 percent. The lump sum interest rate was increased from 5.5 percent to 6.0 percent. The lump sum mortality table was updated to the Pension Protection Act 2009 Optional Combined Unisex table. The actuarial gain/(loss) due to demographic experience, including any assumption changes, and investment return differences from assumptions during the prior year was $101,000 and negative $2.3 million, respectively causing a $2.3 million increase in the projected benefit obligation of the plan. The plan’s accumulated benefit obligation was $9.9 million and $10.4 million at December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We do not believe this change was material and we project that it will not have a material effect on the results of operations or on cash flow from operating activities in future periods.
We also have a supplemental non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covers certain management employees. There are no plan assets for this plan. For the 2008 plan year, the discount rate assumption was changed from 6.1 percent to 6.6 percent. The lump sum interest rate was increased from 5.5 percent to 6.0 percent. The lump sum mortality table was updated to the Pension Protection Act 2009 Optional Combined Unisex table. The actuarial gain/(loss) due to demographic experience, including any assumption changes, and investment return differences from assumptions during the prior year was $64,000 and zero, respectively causing a $64,000 decrease in projected benefit obligation of the plan. The plan’s accumulated benefit obligation was $546,000 and $1.0 million at December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We believe this obligation will be funded from future cash flows from operating activities.
Accounting Matters
Please see Note 11 - Fair Value Measurements and the section entitled “Recently Issued Accounting Standards” under Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for accounting matters.
Environmental
St. Mary’s compliance with applicable environmental regulations has not resulted in any significant capital expenditures or materially adverse effects to our liquidity or results of operations. We believe we are in substantial compliance with environmental regulations and do not currently foresee that material expenditures will be required in the future. However, we are unable to predict the impact that future compliance with regulations may have on future capital expenditures, liquidity, and results of operations.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information required by this item is provided under the captions “Commodity Price Risk and Interest Rate Risk,” “Summary of Oil and Gas Production Hedges in Place,” and “Summary of Interest Rate Hedges in Place” in Item 7 above and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The Consolidated Financial Statements that constitute Item 8 follow the text of this report. An index to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules appears in Item 15(a) of this report.
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by the Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purpose discussed above as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
To the Stockholders’ of St. Mary Land & Exploration Company
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
(i)
Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(ii)
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and
(iii)
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of the changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.
The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. That report immediately follows this report.
/s/ ANTHONY J. BEST
/s/ A. WADE PURSELL
Anthony J. Best
A. Wade Pursell
President and Chief Executive Officer
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 23, 2009
February 23, 2009
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
St. Mary Land & Exploration Company and Subsidiaries
Denver, Colorado
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of St. Mary Land & Exploration Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008, of the Company and our report dated February 23, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Denver, Colorado
February 23, 2009
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
None.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this Item concerning St. Mary’s Directors and corporate governance is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the captions “Election of Directors,” “Nominees for Election as Directors,” “Corporate Governance” and “Board and Committee Meetings” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2008. The information required by the Item concerning St. Mary’s executive officers is incorporated by reference to the information provided in Part I - Item 4A - EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT, included in this Form 10-K.
The information required by this Item concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2008.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the captions, “Director Compensation,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Executive Compensation and Summary Compensation Table,” “Summary Compensation Table For 2007 and 2008,” “Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2008,” “Outstanding Equity Awards at 2008 Fiscal Year-End,” “Nonqualified Deferred Compensation,” “Option Exercises and Stock Vested,” “Retirement Plans,” “2008 Pension Benefits,” “Equity Compensation Plans,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Compensation Committee Report,” “Employment Agreements and Termination of Employment,” and “Change-of-Control Arrangements” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2008.
ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The information required by this Item concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in St. Mary’s definitive proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2008.
The information required by this Item concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the information provided under the caption “Equity Compensation Plans” in Part II, Item 5