ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Domestic Operations
The Company's exploration, development and acquisition activities are focused in five core operating areas: the Mid-Continent region; south Louisiana; the ArkLaTex region; the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana; and the Permian Basin in west Texas and New Mexico. Information concerning each of the Company's major areas of operations, based on the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1998, is set forth below.
- ----------- (1) Includes reserves associated with properties in Colorado, Kansas, Mississippi, New Mexico, Texas, Utah and Wyoming.
Mid-Continent Region. The Company has been active in the Mid-Continent region since 1973 where the Company's operations are managed by its 25-person, Tulsa, Oklahoma office. The Company has ongoing exploration and development programs in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Sherman-Marietta Basin of southern Oklahoma and northern Texas. The Mid-Continent region accounted for 43% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1998 or 78.6 BCFE (77% proved developed and 96% gas). The Company participated in 67 gross wells and recompletions in this region in 1998, including 21 Company-operated wells.
The Company's development and exploration budget in the Mid-Continent region for 1999 totals $22 million. The Company plans to operate 29 drilling wells in the Mid-Continent region during 1999 and to utilize two to three drilling rigs throughout the year. St. Mary also expects to participate in an additional 10 to 20 wells to be operated by other entities.
Anadarko Basin. The Company's long history of operations and proprietary geologic knowledge enable the Company to sustain economic development and exploration programs despite periods of adverse industry conditions. The Company is applying state of the art technology in hydraulic fracturing and innovative well completion techniques to accelerate production and associated cash flow from the region's tight gas reservoirs. St. Mary also continues to benefit from a continuing consolidation and rationalization of operators in the basin. The Company periodically seizes attractive opportunities to acquire properties from companies that have elected to discontinue operations in the basin. This trend is expected to accelerate during 1999 and to offer St. Mary new opportunities as a result of the acute cost and capital pressures in the exploration and production sector.
The Company works aggressively to control its operating costs and to enhance its full cycle economics. In December 1998 the Company realized net proceeds of $22 million on the sale of its interests in eight fields in the Anadarko Basin. This sale was part of the Company's ongoing strategy to enhance the return on its portfolio of assets through the opportunistic sale of non-strategic properties during periods in the market when such properties command premium valuations.
Drilling activities will focus on lower to medium-risk prospects in the Granite Wash and Red Fork formations. In addition, the Company will devote approximately 23% of its Mid-Continent capital budget to deeper, higher potential development wells in the lower Morrow formation below 19,000 feet at the NE Mayfield Field and in the Hunton and Arbuckle formations at depths between 16,000 and 18,000 at the SW Mayfield Field.
Carrier Prospect. Within its inventory of large-target prospects, the Company holds an aggregate 11.2% working interest in 25,800 acres in Leon County, Texas in the Cotton Valley reef play. The Company's Carrier Prospect acreage is located approximately nine miles east of the trend of the industry's initial prolific reef discoveries, and targets potentially larger reefs that are postulated to have developed in the deeper waters of the basin during the Jurassic period. The Company and its partners completed a 52 square mile 3-D seismic survey in 1997. St. Mary holds a 22% working interest in the first prospect that will test a large 3-D anomaly that has been interpreted to be a platform reef situated in the deeper portion of the East Texas Basin to the east of the industry's existing pinnacle reef discoveries. St. Mary and its partners plan to spud the initial test well during the second half of 1999.
South Louisiana Region. St. Mary's presence in south Louisiana dates to the turn of the century when the Company's founders acquired a franchise property in St. Mary Parish on the shoreline of the Gulf of Mexico. These 24,900 acres of fee lands constitute one of the Company's most valuable assets and yielded more than $6.9 million of gross oil and gas royalty revenue in 1998. The south Louisiana region accounted for 6.6% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1998, or 12.1 BCFE (86% proved developed and 63% gas).
The Company's diverse activities in south Louisiana are managed by its regional 3-person office in Lafayette, Louisiana, and include ongoing development and exploration programs in St. Mary, Cameron, Lafourche, Jefferson Davis, Vermilion and Calcasieu parishes. Advanced 3-D seismic imaging and interpretation techniques are revitalizing exploration and development activities in the Miocene trend of south Louisiana. St. Mary is applying the latest technologies to unravel the region's complex geology and to extend exploratory drilling into deeper untested formations.
St. Mary's historical presence in southern Louisiana, its established network of industry relationships and its extensive technical database on the area have enabled the Company to assemble an inventory of large-target prospects in the south Louisiana region.
The 1998 disappointments at South Horseshoe Bayou and at Atchafalaya Bay discussed below underscore the risks inherent in the exploration for deep gas reserves in south Louisiana. St. Mary evaluates the results of its exploration efforts based on full cycle economic returns over a multi-year period and believes that exploration decisions should not be based solely on any single year's results.
Fee Lands. The Company owns 24,900 acres of fee lands and associated mineral rights in St. Mary Parish located approximately 85 miles southwest of New Orleans. St. Mary also owns a 25% working interest in approximately 300 acres located offshore and immediately south of the Company's fee lands. Since the initial discovery on the Company's fee lands in 1938, cumulative oil and gas revenues, primarily landowners' royalties, to the Company from the Bayou Sale, Horseshoe Bayou and Belle Isle fields on its fee lands have exceeded $223 million. St. Mary currently leases 14,419 acres of its fee lands and has an additional 10,481 acres that are presently unleased. The Company's principal lessees are Texaco, Vastar, Cabot, Mobil and Sam Gary Jr. and Associates, a private exploration company headquartered in Denver.
St. Mary has encouraged development drilling by its lessees, facilitated the origination of new prospects on acreage not held by production and stimulated exploration interest in deeper, untested horizons. The Company's major discovery on its fee lands at South Horseshoe Bayou in early 1997 and a subsequent successful confirmation well in early 1998 proved that significant accumulations of gas are sourced and trapped at depths below 16,000 feet.
South Horseshoe Bayou Project. In October 1995 the Company began participation as a working interest owner in its fee lands in St. Mary Parish with a 25% working interest in this project; resulting in a net revenue interest ranging from 36% to 40% due to its previously existing royalty position. The St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 1 well, under a turn-key contract, commenced drilling toward a target depth of 19,000 feet. In February 1996 this well began encountering severe pressure and mechanical problems that could not be corrected and in July 1996 the well was plugged without reaching total depth. The drilling rig was skid and the drilling of a new well commenced on the same site. In February 1997 the Company announced a significant deep gas discovery at the St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 2 well. This well was completed in the 17,300 foot sand, and in January 1998 a confirmation well, the St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 3, was completed in the same interval. In April 1998 the No. 2 well was recompleted in the 17,900 foot sand and is currently producing. In August 1998 the No. 3 well was shut-in as the result of mechanical problems while it was producing approximately 33 MMcf per day. Management is currently evaluating whether to sidetrack or abandon the No. 3 well.
At year-end the Company reclassified 23.7 BCFE of reserves to the probable category and wrote off 15.1 BCFE of reserves due to premature water encroachment and mechanical problems. Despite these disappointments, South Horseshoe Bayou has generated solid economic returns for the Company and still has significant remaining potential. The two wells have produced 6.0 Bcf of gas and 45 MBbls of oil, net to the Company's interest, through December 31, 1998.
An untested fault block to the north of the existing production will be drilled in 1999 as part of the Company's continuing management and exploitation of its fee lands. Permitting of the St. Mary Land & Exploration 24-1 well (25% working interest and approximately 36% net revenue interest) is scheduled to be completed by April, and drilling operations are expected to commence in May 1999. (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
Atchafalaya Bay Prospect. In March 1997 the Company and its partner acquired seven tracts (2,845 gross acres) in a Louisiana state lease sale in Atchafalaya Bay. A 19,000-foot test of a large 3-D prospect during 1998 was unsuccessful and the well was completed in a small secondary zone at 12,300 feet. The costs associated with the drilling of this deep exploratory well were expensed in 1998.
Stallion Prospect. The Company's Stallion prospect (31.25% working interest) was spud in January 1999 and is currently drilling below 15,300 feet toward a targeted total depth of approximately 17,800 feet. This 3-D prospect in Cameron Parish, Louisiana is scheduled to test a series of MA sands along a major east-west growth fault that produces from the same interval to the east at the Little Pecan Lake, Lac Blanc and North Freshwater Bayou fields. (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
Edgerly Prospect. St. Mary and its partners have completed a 30 square mile 3-D survey on the western and northern flanks of the Edgerly salt dome in Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana where a 16,000 acre leasehold position was assembled during 1998. The Company has identified a number of promising anomalies on the 3-D survey and in 1999 expects to test several Hackberry prospects at shallow depths between 10,000 and 13,000 feet. The Company has an approximate 35% working interest in the Edgerly prospect. (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
Patterson Prospect. The Company's Patterson prospect is located approximately 20 miles north of the Company's fee lands in St. Mary Parish within the lower Miocene producing trend of south Louisiana. St. Mary holds a 25% working interest in leases and options totaling approximately 5,573 acres in the prospect area which lies within a major east-west producing trend between the Garden City and Patterson fields. An unsuccessful 19,000-foot test was drilled in 1995 based on 2-D seismic data and existing well control. In order to further evaluate this prospect, in 1997 St. Mary and its partners purchased 20 square miles of a regional 3-D seismic survey. The project was delayed during 1998 due to the financial constraints of certain partners. However, the partner group is exploring alternatives with other parties and hopes to proceed with the drilling of the 19,500-foot MA sand test by mid 1999. (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
North Parcperdue Prospect. The Company has a 25% working interest in the North Parcperdue prospect located in Vermilion Parish. The prospect is targeting Marg Tex sands in a fault block with other productive shallow sands. A re-entry and sidetrack of the Phillips Sweezy No. 1 well is scheduled to begin in May 1999. (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
ArkLaTex Region. The Company's operations in the ArkLaTex area are managed by its 12-person office in Shreveport, Louisiana. The ArkLaTex region accounted for 24% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1998, or 43.5 BCFE (92% proved developed and 92% gas). The Company's 1999 capital budget for the ArkLaTex region is $6.5 million.
In 1992 the Company acquired the ArkLaTex oil and gas properties of T. L. James & Company, Inc. as well as rights to over 6,000 miles of proprietary 2-D seismic data in the region. The Shreveport office's successful development and exploration programs have derived from a series of niche acquisitions completed since 1992 totaling $10.8 million. These acquisitions have provided access to strategic holdings of undeveloped acreage and proprietary packages of geologic and seismic data, resulting in an active program of additional development and exploration.
St. Mary's holdings in the ArkLaTex region are comprised of interests in approximately 445 producing wells, including 68 Company-operated wells, and interests in leases totaling approximately 54,900 gross acres and mineral servitudes totaling approximately 15,800 gross acres.
Activities in the ArkLaTex region during 1998 focused on the phased development of several important field discoveries made by the Company's geoscientists since 1994. At the Box Church Field in Limestone County, Texas, the Company completed an additional eight wells in 1998, bringing the field total to 26 wells. Four additional locations are planned for 1999. Gross production from the field has increased from 2.5 MMcf per day, when acquired in 1995, to the current rate of 18 MMcf per day. In 1999 the Company plans to install additional gathering systems, compression and artificial lift upgrades that are designed to sustain field production at approximately 20 MMcf per day. The Company operates the field and holds an average 58% working interest. Total cumulative gross field reserves are expected to exceed 100 Bcf of gas.
Development around the Company's 1995 discovery at the Haynesville Field also continued in 1998 with St. Mary participating in the drilling of 14 new wells. St. Mary and others have drilled a total of 38 wells since the 1995 discovery. The Company operates 12 wells in the field and owns interests in an additional 13 wells.
In 1999 the Company is focused on the search for new opportunities and potential analog fields in which to apply its proprietary geologic models and production techniques. St. Mary believes that it is especially well positioned to secure additional acquisitions in the ArkLaTex region during 1999 in the wake of the dislocations and capital shortages being experienced by many of its competitors.
Williston Basin Region. The Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra Petroleum, a general partnership formed in June 1991. The Company holds a 74% interest in Panterra, and the managing partner, Nance Petroleum, owns a 26% interest. Nance Petroleum's principal activity is the management of Panterra's interests in the Williston Basin. Panterra currently owns interests in 62 fields within the basin's core producing area including 134,000 gross acres, 78 Panterra-operated wells and 161 wells operated by other parties.
The Williston Basin region accounted for 14% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1998, or 26.0 BCFE (97% proved developed and 88% oil). St. Mary has budgeted approximately $2.0 million as its share of Panterra's 1999 development and exploration program.
Panterra's operations are directed by senior geoscientists who have devoted their careers to the development of oil and gas reserves in the Williston Basin. The Company's long-term strategy is to employ advanced technologies to improve drilling results and production in order to maximize full cycle economics. For instance, Panterra has successfully used 3-D seismic imaging to delineate structural and subtle stratigraphic features not previously discernable using conventional exploration methods. This utilization of advanced technologies by experienced geoscientists has helped Panterra achieve a 100% success rate in its operated exploration and development program since 1991.
During periods of depressed oil prices or inflated costs the partnership has the financial resources to capitalize on dislocations experienced by other operators. Panterra uses these periods to replenish its prospect inventory, to secure attractively priced acquisitions and to conduct additional 3-D seismic work and technical studies in anticipation of cyclical recovery in the industry.
Panterra plans to conduct six additional or extended 3-D surveys in 1999 over existing fields in the search for bypassed pay zones. In addition a detailed reservoir simulation of the Bainville Field is scheduled for completion and will be used to evaluate secondary recovery opportunities in this existing field.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin of New Mexico and west Texas is the Company's newest area of concentration. The Permian Basin area covers a significant portion of eastern New Mexico and western Texas and is one of the major producing basins in the United States. The basin includes hundreds of oil fields undergoing secondary and enhanced recovery projects. 3-D seismic imaging of existing fields and state-of-the-art secondary recovery programs are substantially increasing oil recoveries in the Permian Basin. The optimization of production and the careful control of operating costs are especially critical in the prevailing low oil price environment.
St. Mary's holdings in the Permian Basin derive from a series of niche property acquisitions that date back to 1995. Management believes that its Permian Basin operations provide St. Mary with a solid base of long lived oil reserves, promising longer-term exploration and development prospects and the potential for secondary recovery projects. The Permian Basin region accounted for 12% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1998, or 21.9 BCFE (91% proved developed and 77% oil).
The Company's reservoir engineers have identified a number of properties where the project economics of secondary recovery plans are still acceptable under current prices. St. Mary's geoscientists have also warehoused a number of high quality prospects for which future drilling is contingent upon a stabilization of oil prices above $15 per barrel.
St. Mary initiated a full-scale multi-year waterflood in 1998 at its Parkway (Delaware) Unit in Eddy County, New Mexico. The initial response to the first phase of this waterflood has been excellent. The Company's operations in the Permian Basin during 1999 will focus on the expansion of the waterflood project at Parkway and additional secondary recovery work at the Shugart and Zuni fields.
St. Mary also holds a 21.2% working interest in an unusual 30,450-acre top lease in the North Ward Estes Field in Ward County, Texas. In August 2000, all production and future development and exploration rights on this 50 square mile property will revert to the ownership and control of St. Mary and its partners.
Large-Target Exploration Projects. The Company generally invests approximately 15% of its annual capital budget in longer-term, higher-risk, high-potential exploration projects. During the past several years the Company has assembled an inventory of large potential projects in various stages of development which have the potential to materially increase the Company's reserves. The Company's strategy is to maintain a pipeline of seven to ten of these high-potential prospects and to test four or more targets each year, while furthering the development of early-stage projects and continuing the evaluation of potential new exploration prospects.
The Company seeks to develop large-target prospects by using its comprehensive base of geological, geophysical, engineering and production experience in each of its focus areas. The large-target projects typically require relatively long lead times before a well is commenced in order to develop proprietary geologic concepts, assemble leasehold positions and acquire and fully evaluate 3-D seismic or other data. The Company seeks to apply the latest technology wherever appropriate, including 3-D seismic imaging, in its prospect development and evaluation to mitigate a portion of the inherently higher risk of these exploration projects. In addition, the Company seeks to invest in a diversified mix of exploration projects and generally limits its capital exposure by participating with other experienced industry partners.
The following table summarizes the Company's active large-target exploration projects. (see also "Properties").
- ------------ (1) Working interests differ from net revenue interests due to royalty interest burdens. (2) Royalty interests are approximate and are subject to adjustment. St. Mary has no capital at risk with respect to its royalty interests. (3) Expected Test Date refers to the period during which the Company anticipates the completion of an exploratory well.
International Operations
In 1997 the Company completed the sale or disposition of the majority of its international investments. In 1998 the Company sold its remaining properties in Canada.
Russian Joint Venture. In February 1997, the Company sold its interest in The Limited Liability Company Chernogorskoye (the "Russian joint venture") to Khanty Mansiysk Oil Corporation ("KMOC"), formerly known as Ural Petroleum Corporation, for consideration totaling $17.6 million. The Company received $5.6 million in cash, before transaction costs, $1.9 million of KMOC common stock and a convertible receivable in a form equivalent to a retained production payment of approximately $10.1 million plus interest at 10% per annum from the limited liability company formed to hold the Russian joint venture. The Company's receivable is collateralized by the partnership interest sold and the Company has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require KMOC to purchase the receivable from the net proceeds of an initial public offering of KMOC common stock. Alternatively, the Company may elect to convert all or a portion of its receivable into KMOC common stock immediately prior to an initial public offering of KMOC common stock or on or after February 11, 2000, whichever occurs first. Uncertain economic conditions in Russia and lower oil prices have affected the realizability of the convertible receivable. As a result, the Company has reduced the carrying amount of the receivable to its minimum conversion value, incurring a charge to operations of $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.
Trinidad and Tobago. In 1997 the Company relinquished its 7.47% reversionary interest in a 281,506-acre onshore exploration and production license in the Caroni Basin of Trinidad and Tobago.
Key Relationships
The Company cultivates strategic partnerships with independent oil and gas operators having region-specific experience and specialized technical skills. The Company's strategy is to either serve as operator or maintain a majority interest in such ventures to ensure that it can exercise significant influence over development and exploration activities. In addition the Company seeks industry partners who are willing to co-invest on substantially the same basis as the Company. For example, the Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra in which St. Mary holds a 74% general partnership interest. The managing partner of Panterra is Nance Petroleum, the principal of which has over 25 years of experience in the Williston Basin.
Acquisitions
The Company's strategy is to make selective niche acquisitions of oil and gas properties within its core operating areas in the United States. The Company seeks to acquire properties that complement its existing operations, offer economies of scale and provide further development and exploration opportunities based on proprietary geologic concepts or advanced well completion techniques. Management believes that the Company's success in acquiring attractively priced and under-exploited properties has resulted from its focus on smaller, negotiated transactions where the Company has specialized geologic knowledge or operating experience.
Although the Company periodically evaluates large acquisition packages offered in competitive bid or auction formats, the Company has continued to emphasize acquisitions having values of less than $10 million. This size of acquisition package generally attracts less competition and is where the Company's technical expertise, financial flexibility and structuring experience affords a competitive advantage.
Faced with an overheated acquisition market where demand exceeded the supply of economically sound opportunities, St. Mary chose to conserve its capital resources in 1998 and completed only $4.2 million of property acquisitions. During the last five years the Company has closed over $85 million of niche acquisitions where proprietary geologic knowledge or operating expertise have afforded the Company a competitive advantage.
The economic success of the Company's historical acquisitions has resulted from a focus on smaller, negotiated transactions where St. Mary has clearly identified opportunities that maximize their value. St. Mary's teams of geoscientists and engineers evaluate each acquisition to quantify potential opportunities arising from proprietary geologic concepts or advanced production technologies. In addition, the acquired production is hedged for periods up to two years to protect the Company's return on its investment.
In 1999 St. Mary has reserved $25 million of its capital program for property acquisitions. However, the Company has the financial capacity to commit substantially greater resources to purchases should additional opportunities be identified.
Weak commodity prices and depressed oil and gas stock prices have precipitated an important change in the acquisition market in early 1999. St. Mary expects that quality acquisitions will always command premium prices given the inherent costs and risks associated with developing new reserves. However, the market in 1999 is expected to offer favorable opportunities for the relatively few financially strong companies able to capitalize on this depressed market.
Reserves
At December 31, 1998, Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers, evaluated properties representing approximately 80% of the Company's total PV-10 value and the Company evaluated the remainder. The PV-10 values shown in the following table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated net proved oil and gas reserves owned by the Company. Neither prices nor costs have been escalated, but prices include the effects of hedging contracts.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, as prepared by Ryder Scott Company and St. Mary:
- ------------ (1) Reserve data attributable to the Company's Russian joint venture have been excluded from this table. Effective February 12, 1997, the Company sold its Russian joint venture. See "International Operations." (2) The Company's year-end 1998 reserves reflect property dispositions of 39.6 BCFE, discoveries and extensions of 40.8 BCFE, acquisitions of 5.3 BCFE, negative price-related revisions of 18.2 BCFE and a write-down of 38.8 BCFE of proved reserves at South Horseshoe Bayou, of which 23.7 BCFE were reclassified to the probable category.
The present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes of the Company's reserves was $125.1 million as of December 31, 1998. This present value is based on a benchmark of prices in effect at that date of $12.05 per barrel of oil (NYMEX) and $1.855 per million MMBtu of gas (Gulf Coast spot price), both of which are adjusted for transportation and basis differential. These prices were 34 percent and 20 percent lower, respectively, than prices in effect at the end of 1997. Had the December 31, 1997, pricing assumptions been applied, the PV-10 value and net reserves would have been $193.2 million and 202.5 BCFE, respectively.
Production
The following table summarizes the average volumes of oil and gas produced from properties in which the Company held an interest during the periods indicated:
------------- (1) Production from South Horseshoe Bayou and sold Oklahoma properties represented 18.1% and 6.5% respectively, or a total of 24.6% of the 1998 production total. Management expects that the 1999 capital investment program will partially offset this production loss. (2) Includes the effects of the Company's hedging activities. (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Overview").
The Company uses financial hedging instruments, primarily fixed-for-floating price swap agreements and no-cost collar agreements with financial counterparties, to manage its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. The Company also employs the use of exchange-listed financial futures and options as part of its hedging program for crude oil.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information regarding the number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest at December 31, 1998. Productive wells are either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production although currently shut in. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the wells in which the Company participated during each of the three years indicated:
--------------- (1) Does not include 1, 4 and 3 gross wells completed on The Company's fee lands during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
Domestic Acreage
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases, fee properties, mineral servitudes and lease options held by the Company as of December 31, 1998. Undeveloped acreage includes leasehold interests that may already have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
- ------------ (1) Developed acreage is acreage assigned to producing wells for the spacing unit of the producing formation. Developed acreage in certain of the Company's properties that include multiple formations with different well spacing requirements may be considered undeveloped for certain formations, but have only been included as developed acreage in the presentation above. (2) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves. (3) Includes interests in Alabama, Colorado, Kansas, Mississippi, Utah and Wyoming. St. Mary also holds an override interest in an additional 44,388 gross acres in Utah
Non-Oil and Gas Activities
Summo Minerals. The Company, through a subsidiary, owns 9.9 million shares or 37% of Summo Minerals Corporation ("Summo"), a North American copper mining company focusing on finding late exploration stage, low to medium-sized copper deposits in the United States amenable to the SX-EW extraction process. Summo's common shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol "SMA." The persistence of depressed commodity prices and increased worldwide inventory levels of copper have caused Summo's stock price to decline. Management believes that this stock price decline is not temporary and that its value is impaired. Consequently, the Company wrote down its net investment in Summo to net realizable value in the fourth quarter of 1998. Management believes the recorded net investment is recoverable.
In May 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to receive a 55% interest in Summo's Lisbon Valley Copper Project (the "Project") in return for the Company contributing $4.0 million in cash, all of its outstanding stock in Summo, and $8.6 million in letters of credit to a single purpose company, Lisbon Valley Mining Company LLC ("LVMC"), formed to own and operate the Project. Summo will contribute the property, all project permits and contracts, $3.2 million in cash, and a commitment for $45 million senior debt financing in return for a 45% interest in LVMC. The agreement is subject to certain conditions including the finalization of the necessary project financing.
The Company has agreed to provide Summo with interim financing of up to $3.5 million for the Project in the form of a loan bearing interest at the prime rate plus 1% due in June 1999. As security for this loan, Summo pledged its interest in LVMC to the Company in November 1998. As of December 31, 1998, $2.9 million was outstanding under the note, and additional amounts totaling $188,000 have been advanced to Summo under this loan to date in 1999. At the Company's option, the principal amounts advanced by the Company under the note are convertible into shares of Summo common stock at a defined conversion price. Upon finalization of the necessary project financing for LVMC, the Company may elect to deem the outstanding principal amount of the note as a capital contribution in partial satisfaction of its capital commitments as set forth in the May 1997 agreement. Accrued interest on the loan will be forgiven if the Company makes this election.
In September 1998 Summo received final regulatory approval to develop the Project. Future development and financial success of the Project are largely dependent on the market price of copper, which is determined in world markets and is subject to significant fluctuations. Current copper prices have declined to ten-year lows and do not justify construction and development of the Project at this time. Management believes that copper prices will recover and that the Project will have considerable value at that time. The Company has the ability to fund the carrying costs of the property and the intent to retain its interest in the Project until copper prices do recover. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will realize a return on its investment in Summo or the Project.
Competition
Competition in the oil and gas business is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties, proved undeveloped acreage and leases. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties and for the equipment and labor required for their operation and development. The Company believes that the locations of its leasehold acreage, its exploration, drilling and production capabilities and the experience of its management and that of its industry partners generally enable the Company to compete effectively. Many of the Company's competitors, however, have financial resources and exploration, development and acquisition budgets that are substantially greater than those of the Company, and these may adversely affect the Company's ability to compete, particularly in regions outside of the Company's principal producing areas. Because of this competition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in finding and acquiring producing properties and development and exploration prospects at its planned capital funding levels.
Markets and Major Customers
During 1998 no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's total oil and gas production revenue. During 1997 two customers individually accounted for 10.6% and 10.2% of the Company's total oil and gas production revenue.
Government Regulations
The Company's business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, taxation and environmental protection. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas.
The Company's operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, and the payment of such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes at the federal, state and local level could have a material impact on the Company.
Title to Properties
Substantially all of the Company's working interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. A title opinion is usually obtained prior to the commencement of drilling operations on properties. The Company has obtained title opinions or conducted a thorough title review on substantially all of its producing properties and believes that it has satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. The Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. The Company performs only a minimal title investigation before acquiring undeveloped properties.
Operational Hazards and Insurance
The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any such event could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life; severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; clean-up responsibilities; regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company and the operators of properties in which it has an interest maintain insurance against some, but not all, potential risks. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. The occurrence of a significant unfavorable event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost or at all.
Employees and Office Space
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had 110 full-time employees. None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company leases approximately 34,500 square feet of office space in Denver, Colorado, for its executive and administrative offices, of which 7,200 square feet is subleased. The Company also leases approximately 15,000 square feet of office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma, approximately 7,300 square feet of office space in Shreveport, Louisiana and approximately 1,100 square feet in Lafayette, Louisiana. The Company believes that its current facilities are adequate.
Glossary
The terms defined in this section are used throughout this Form 10-K.
2-D seismic or 2-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a two-dimensional cross-section of the subsurface.
3-D seismic or 3-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a three-dimensional picture of the subsurface.
Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
Bcf. Billion cubic feet, used herein in reference to natural gas.
BCFE. Billion cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Behind pipe reserves. Estimated net proved reserves in a formation in which production casing has already been set in the wellbore but has not been perforated and production tested.
BOE. Barrels of oil equivalent. Oil equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Development well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
Dry hole. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Estimated net proved reserves. The estimated quantities of oil, gas and gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Exploratory well. A well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
Fee land. The most extensive interest which can be owned in land, including surface and mineral (including oil and gas) rights.
Finding cost. Expressed in dollars per BOE. Finding costs are calculated by dividing the amount of total capital expenditures for oil and gas activities by the amount of estimated net proved reserves added during the same period (including the effect on proved reserves of reserve revisions).
Gross acres. An acre in which a working interest is owned.
Gross well. A well in which a working interest is owned.
Hydraulic fracturing. A procedure to stimulate production by forcing a mixture of fluid and proppant (usually sand) into the formation under high pressure. This creates artificial fractures in the reservoir rock which increases permeability and porosity.
MBbl. One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MMBbl. One million barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MBOE. One thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
MMBOE. One million barrels of oil equivalent.
Mcf. One thousand cubic feet.
MCFE. One thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
MMcf. One million cubic feet.
MMCFE. One million cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
MBtu. One million British Thermal Units. A British Thermal Unit is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water one degree Fahrenheit.
Net acres or net wells. The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
Net asset value per share. The result of the fair market value of total assets less total liabilities, divided by the total number of outstanding shares of common stock.
PV-10 value. The present value of estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of estimated net proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date indicated (unless such prices or costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expenses or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%.
Productive well. A well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production.
Proved developed reserves. Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped reserves. Reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Recompletion. The completion for production of an existing wellbore in another formation from that in which the well has previously been completed.
Reserve life. Expressed in years, represents the estimated net proved reserves at a specified date divided by forecasted production for the following 12-month period.
Royalty. The interest paid to the owner of mineral rights expressed as a percentage of gross income from oil and gas produced and sold unencumbered by expenses.
Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to shares of oil and gas production free of costs of exploration, development and production. Royalty interests are approximate and are subject to adjustment.
Undeveloped acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves.
Working interest. The operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and to share in the production.
ITEM 3.