ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Domestic Operations
The Company's exploration, development and acquisition activities are focused in five core operating areas: the Mid-Continent region; onshore Gulf Coast and offshore Gulf of Mexico; the ArkLaTex region; the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana; and the Permian Basin in west Texas and New Mexico. Information concerning each of the Company's major areas of operations, based on the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1999, is set forth below.
[FN] - ----------- (1) Includes reserves associated with properties in Colorado, Kansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas, Utah and Wyoming.
Mid-Continent Region. Since 1973 St. Mary has been active in the Mid-Continent region where operations are managed by its 28-person Tulsa, Oklahoma office. The Company has ongoing exploration and development programs in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma. The Mid-Continent region accounted for 28% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1999 or 88.7 BCFE (79% proved developed and 93% gas). The Company participated in 58 gross wells and recompletions in this region in 1999, including 22 Company-operated wells.
The Company's development and exploration budget in the Mid-Continent region for 2000 totals $21 million. The Company plans to operate 34 drilling wells in the Mid-Continent region during 2000 and to utilize two to three drilling rigs throughout the year. St. Mary also expects to participate in an additional 10 to 20 wells to be operated by other entities.
Anadarko Basin. The Company's long history of operations and proprietary geologic knowledge enable the Company to sustain economic development and exploration programs despite periods of adverse industry conditions. The Company is applying state of the art technology in hydraulic fracturing and innovative well completion techniques to accelerate production and associated cash flow from the region's tight gas reservoirs. St. Mary also continues to benefit from a continuing consolidation of operators in the basin. The Company periodically seizes attractive opportunities to acquire properties from companies that have elected to discontinue operations in the basin.
The Company works aggressively to control its operating costs and to enhance its full cycle economics. In December 1998 the Company realized net proceeds of $22 million on the sale of its interests in eight fields in the Anadarko Basin. This sale was part of the Company's ongoing strategy to enhance the return on its portfolio of assets through the opportunistic sale of non-strategic properties during periods in the market when such properties command premium valuations.
Drilling activities will focus on lower to medium-risk prospects in the Granite Wash, Osborne and Red Fork formations. In addition, the Company will devote approximately 42% of its Mid-Continent capital budget to deeper, higher potential development wells in the lower Morrow formation below 19,000 feet at the NE Mayfield Field and in various other fields with Morrow and Springer formations at depths between 10,000 and 16,000 feet.
Carrier Prospect. Within its inventory of large-target prospects, the Company holds an aggregate 11.2% working interest in 25,800 acres in Leon County, Texas in the Cotton Valley reef play. The Company's Carrier Prospect acreage is located approximately nine miles east of the trend of the industry's initial prolific reef discoveries, and targets potentially larger reefs that are postulated to have developed in the deeper waters of the basin during the Jurassic period. The Company and its partners completed a 52 square mile 3-D seismic survey in 1997. St. Mary holds a 22% working interest in the first prospect that will test a large 3-D anomaly that has been interpreted to be a platform reef situated in the deeper portion of the East Texas Basin to the east of the industry's existing pinnacle reef discoveries. St. Mary and its partners plan to spud the initial test well in late 2000.
Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico Region. St. Mary's presence in south Louisiana dates to the early 1900's when the Company's founders acquired a franchise property in St. Mary Parish on the shoreline of the Gulf of Mexico. These 24,900 acres of fee lands constitute one of the Company's most valuable assets and yielded more than $3 million of gross oil and gas royalty revenue in 1999. The Company's onshore Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico presence increased dramatically in 1999 with the acquisition of King Ranch Energy and is expected to be a major growth area in 2000 and beyond. This acquisition included 260,000 gross undeveloped acres (81,000 net acres) and 1,538 square miles of 3-D seismic data. The Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico region accounted for 23% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1999, or 73.9 BCFE (77% proved developed and 83% gas).
The Company's diverse activities in the onshore Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico are managed by its recently expanded 12-person regional office in Lafayette, Louisiana, and include ongoing development and exploration programs in Point Coupee, Cameron, Lafourche, Jefferson Davis, Vermilion and Calcasieu parishes as well as several offshore Gulf of Mexico blocks. Advanced 3-D seismic imaging and interpretation techniques are revitalizing exploration and development activities in the Miocene trend along the Gulf Coast. St. Mary is applying the latest technologies to unravel the region's complex geology and to extend exploratory drilling into deeper untested formations. The Company's exploration and development budget in the Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico region for 2000 is $25 million, including approximately $12 million for large target projects.
The Judge Digby Field is the largest field acquired in the King Ranch Energy acquisition and is located outside Baton Rouge in Point Coupee Parish. The Company has a 10% to 20% working interest in six wells currently producing 102 MMCF per day. This ultra deep field produces from multiple Tuscaloosa reservoirs between 19,000 and 22,000 feet. The Parlange #11 is currently drilling toward a target depth of 24,450 feet and the operator plans to drill another well following completion of this well.
The Company plans three offset wells in the Constitution Field in South Texas where a successful fracture stimulation increased production from 540 MCF and 85 Bbl per day to 4.2 MMCF and 600 Bbl per day. St. Mary owns a 40% working interest in this field.
St. Mary and its partners have completed a 30 square mile 3-D survey on the western and northern flanks of the Edgerly salt dome in Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana where a 16,000 acre leasehold position was assembled during 1998. The first well, the Ledoux #1-35 was completed in 1999 for 2.5 MMCF and 248 Bbl per day, the second well drilled was dry, and the Collingwood #24-1 is currently completing. The Company has identified a number of other promising anomalies on the 3-D survey and expects to test several Hackberry prospects at shallow depths between 10,000 and 13,000 feet in 2000. The Company has an approximate 35% working interest in the Edgerly prospect.
St. Mary's recent acquisition of King Ranch Energy, its historical presence in southern Louisiana, its established network of industry relationships and its extensive technical database on the area have enabled the Company to assemble an inventory of large-target prospects in the onshore Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico region.
In the Gulf of Mexico, St. Mary has three high potential, 3-D, large target prospects at Vermillion 273, W. El Gordo located on Matagorda 522L, and Matagorda 701. Vermillion 273, located in 160 feet of water offshore Louisiana, is a 12,500 foot test for Pliocene lower Lentic objectives. Matagorda 701 is located 50 miles east of Corpus Christi, Texas in 110 feet of water and will test a large fault block on the east flank of the Matagorda 700 field. The West El Gordo prospect is also a lower Miocene Marg A and Siph Davisi prospect on trend with prolific production at Matagorda 525/526 in shallow Texas state waters (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects"). Because St. Mary's ownership interest in certain of these prospects is relatively large, the Company plans to sell or trade a portion of its interests in order to limit the Company's exposure on any one well to 30%.
The disappointments at South Horseshoe Bayou and at Atchafalaya Bay discussed below underscore the risks inherent in the exploration for deep gas reserves in this region. St. Mary evaluates the results of its exploration efforts based on full cycle economic returns over a multi-year period and believes that exploration decisions should not be based solely on any single year's results.
Fee Lands. The Company owns 24,900 acres of fee lands and associated mineral rights in St. Mary Parish located approximately 85 miles southwest of New Orleans. St. Mary also owns a 25% working interest in approximately 300 acres located offshore and immediately south of the Company's fee lands. Since the initial discovery on the Company's fee lands in 1938, cumulative oil and gas revenues, primarily landowners' royalties, to the Company from the Bayou Sale, Horseshoe Bayou and Belle Isle fields on its fee lands have exceeded $225 million. St. Mary currently leases 11,668 acres of its fee lands and has an additional 13,232 acres that are presently unleased. The Company's principal lessees are Vastar, Cabot, ExxonMobil and Sam Gary Jr. and Associates, a private exploration company headquartered in Denver.
St. Mary has encouraged development drilling by its lessees, facilitated the origination of new prospects on acreage not held by production and stimulated exploration interest in deeper, untested horizons. The Company's major discovery on its fee lands at South Horseshoe Bayou in early 1997 and a subsequent successful confirmation well in early 1998 proved that significant accumulations of gas are sourced and trapped at depths below 16,000 feet.
South Horseshoe Bayou Project. In October 1995 the Company began participation as a working interest owner in its fee lands in St. Mary Parish with a 25% working interest in this project; resulting in a net revenue interest ranging from 36% to 40% due to its previously existing royalty position. The St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 1 well, under a turn-key contract, commenced drilling toward a target depth of 19,000 feet. In February 1996 this well began encountering severe pressure and mechanical problems that could not be corrected and in July 1996 the well was plugged without reaching total depth. The drilling rig was skid and the drilling of a new well commenced on the same site. In February 1997 the Company announced a significant deep gas discovery at the St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 2 well. This well was completed in the 17,300 foot sand, and in January 1998 a confirmation well, the St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 3, was completed in the same interval. In April 1998 the No. 2 well was recompleted in the 17,900 foot sand and is currently producing. In August 1998 the No. 3 well was shut-in as the result of mechanical problems while it was producing approximately 33 MMcf per day. The two wells have produced 6.4 Bcf of gas and 48 MBbls of oil, net to the Company's interest, through December 31, 1999. Management is currently evaluating whether to sidetrack or abandon the No. 3 well.
The St. Mary Land & Exploration 24-1 well (41% working interest) was spud in 1999 to test a fault block to the north of the existing production as part of the Company's continuing management and exploitation of its fee lands. This well was determined to be dry and was abandoned in February 2000 and all costs through year-end were charged to exploration expense in the 1999 results of operations.
Atchafalaya Bay Prospect. In March 1997 the Company and its partner acquired seven tracts (2,845 gross acres) in a Louisiana state lease sale in Atchafalaya Bay. A 19,000-foot test of a large 3-D prospect during 1998 was unsuccessful and the well was completed in a small secondary zone at 12,300 feet. The costs associated with the drilling of this deep exploratory well were expensed in 1998.
Stallion Prospect. The Company's Sturlese No. 1 well (31.25% working interest) on the Stallion prospect was completed in 1999 with 119 feet of net pay in the MA 22 and MA 24 sands. This well is currently producing from the MA24 sand with MA 22 pay behind pipe. The Sturlese #3 reached total depth of 17,000' in February 2000, production liner was set and is currently awaiting completion. Additional drilling to test other fault blocks is anticipated in 2000 (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
Patterson Prospect. The Company's Patterson prospect is located approximately 20 miles north of the Company's fee lands in St. Mary Parish within the lower Miocene producing trend of south Louisiana. St. Mary holds a 25% working interest in leases and options totaling approximately 5,573 acres in the prospect area which lies within a major east-west producing trend between the Garden City and Patterson fields. An unsuccessful 19,000-foot test was drilled in 1995 based on 2-D seismic data and existing well control. In order to further evaluate this prospect, in 1997 St. Mary and its partners purchased 20 square miles of a regional 3-D seismic survey. PennzEnergy is currently drilling an analog prospect on trend to Patterson and should reach total depth in the first quarter 2000. The Company is awaiting the results of this well and hopes to proceed with the drilling of the 19,500-foot MA sand test by the third quarter 2000 if this well is successful (see "Large-Target Exploration Projects").
North Parcperdue Prospect. The Company has a 25% working interest in the North Parcperdue prospect located in Vermilion Parish. The Bacque No. 1 well, spud in 1999 was unsuccessful in the Marg Tex sands but was completed uphole in the Marg Vag sands and is awaiting pipeline connection.
ArkLaTex Region. The Company's operations in the ArkLaTex region are managed by its 16-person office in Shreveport, Louisiana. The ArkLaTex region accounted for 16% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1999, or 51.4 BCFE (89% proved developed and 81% gas). The Company's 2000 capital budget for the ArkLaTex region is $10 million.
In 1992 the Company acquired the ArkLaTex oil and gas properties of T. L. James & Company, Inc. as well as rights to over 6,000 square miles of proprietary 2-D seismic data in the region. The Shreveport office's successful development and exploration programs have derived from a series of niche acquisitions completed since 1992 totaling $9.3 million. These acquisitions have provided access to strategic holdings of undeveloped acreage and proprietary packages of geologic and seismic data, resulting in an active program of additional development and exploration.
St. Mary's holdings in the ArkLaTex region are comprised of interests in approximately 514 producing wells, including 96 Company-operated wells, and interests in leases totaling approximately 67,000 gross acres and mineral servitudes totaling approximately 15,600 gross acres.
Activities in the ArkLaTex during 1999 focused on the search for new opportunities and potential analog fields as well as final development of several important field discoveries made by the Company's geoscientists since 1994. At the Box Church Field in Limestone County, Texas, the Company installed a field wide system of compression and gas lift to stabilize current production at 15 MMcf per day. The Company operates the field and holds an average 58% working interest. Total cumulative gross field reserves are expected to exceed 100 Bcf of gas.
The Company acquired a 50% working interest and operations of the Rodessa Cotton Valley Field in Caddo Parish, Louisiana in July 1999. The field consisted of one newly completed gas well. The St. Mary #1 Gipson has since been drilled and tested at 1300 Mcf per day. Four to six additional locations are planned to develop the field reserves of 14 BCFE.
The Company participated in two successful wells at the Ada Field in Bienville Parish, Louisiana with a combined initial production of 8,500 Mcf per day. The first well at Trinidad Field (25% working interest) in Henderson County, Texas tested at 1,800 Mcf per day. The Company also participated with a 15% working interest in a discovery well producing 350 Bbl per day at the NE Collins Cotton Valley Field located in Covington County, Mississippi.
The Shreveport office assumed operations of the Clarksville Field (44% working interest) in Red River County, Texas acquired as part of King Ranch Energy. The field produces 740 Bbl per day from 35 wells.
In 2000 the Company will continue to focus on the search for new opportunities and potential analog fields in which to apply its proprietary geologic models and production techniques. St. Mary believes that it is well positioned to secure additional acquisitions in the ArkLaTex region during 2000 as consolidation within the industry increases the divestiture activity.
Williston Basin Region. The Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Nance Petroleum Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary following its acquisition in June 1999. Previously, the Company's Williston Basin interests were owned through its 74% partnership interest in Panterra Petroleum, in which Nance Petroleum held a 26% interest. The Company currently owns interests in 82 fields within the basin's core producing area including 134,000 gross acres, 83 Nance-operated wells and 181 wells operated by other parties.
The Williston Basin region accounted for 20% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1999, or 65.5 BCFE (95% proved developed and 88% oil). St. Mary has budgeted approximately $12.0 million for the Williston Basin development and exploration program.
Nance's operations are directed by senior geoscientists who have devoted their careers to the development of oil and gas reserves in the Williston Basin. The Company's long-term strategy is to employ advanced technologies to improve drilling results and production in order to maximize full cycle economics. For instance, Nance has successfully used 3-D seismic imaging to delineate structural and subtle stratigraphic features not previously discernable using conventional exploration methods. This utilization of advanced technologies by experienced geoscientists has helped Nance achieve a 94% success rate in its operated exploration and development program since 1991.
Two new discoveries operated by Nance were completed in 1999 in McKenzie County, North Dakota on the Mondak prospect where 3-D seismic was previously shot. The Federal 1-33 discovery was completed and is currently producing 440 Bbl and 400 MCF per day and the confirmation well, the Federal 16-28 was completed at year-end and is currently producing 635 Bbl and 600 MCF per day. Another Nance operated well, the Federal 7-12 was drilled in the Glo field, Cambell County, Wyoming at year-end and is currently testing 200 Bbl per day.
Nance plans to conduct five additional or extended 3-D surveys in 2000 over existing fields in the search for bypassed pay zones. A drilling rig is expected to be kept active all year drilling 6-8 wells.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin area covers a significant portion of eastern New Mexico and western Texas and is one of the major producing basins in the United States. The basin includes hundreds of oil fields undergoing secondary and enhanced recovery projects. 3-D seismic imaging of existing fields and state-of-the-art secondary recovery programs are substantially increasing oil recoveries in the Permian Basin. The optimization of production and the careful control of operating costs are especially critical during periods of low oil prices, such as in 1998. Beginning in 2000 Nance Petroleum Corporation will manage the Company's interest in the Permian Basin. The Company believes that COPAS overhead income will more than offset the general and administrative costs of managing these properties.
St. Mary's holdings in the Permian Basin derive from a series of niche property acquisitions that date back to 1995. Management believes that its Permian Basin operations provide St. Mary with a solid base of long lived oil reserves, promising longer-term exploration and development prospects and the potential for secondary recovery projects. The Permian Basin region accounted for 12% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1999, or 37.4 BCFE (84% proved developed and 71% oil).
The Company's reservoir engineers have identified a number of properties where the project economics of secondary recovery plans are favorable under current prices. St. Mary's geoscientists have also identified a number of high quality prospects that are expected to be drilled in 2000.
St. Mary initiated a full-scale multi-year waterflood in 1998 at its Parkway (Delaware) Unit in Eddy County, New Mexico. The initial response to the first phase of this waterflood has been excellent, increasing field production by 500 Bbl per day. The Company's operations in the Permian Basin during 2000 will focus on the expansion of the waterflood project at Parkway and additional secondary recovery work at the E. Shugart field. As a result of higher oil prices, the Company also expects to see new drilling at the Willow Lake Field where a new discovery was completed in 1999 and the Young North Field where a successful recompletion increased production 150 Bbl per day.
St. Mary also holds a 21.2% working interest in an unusual 30,450-acre top lease in the North Ward Estes Field in Ward County, Texas. The original lease will expire on August 4, 2000. Until that date, working interest production from approximately 400 wells on the lease and the development and exploration rights on the lease are owned by Chevron U.S.A., Inc and Three-B Oil Company. After that date, production of approximately 1,800 Bbl and 3,500 Mcf per day from the wells located on the lease and future development and exploration rights on this 50 square mile property will revert to the ownership and control of St. Mary and its partners. The top lease will continue in effect for as long as oil and/or gas is produced in paying quantities.
Large-Target Exploration Projects. The Company generally invests approximately 15% of its annual capital budget in longer-term, higher-risk, high-potential exploration projects. During the past several years the Company has assembled an inventory of large potential projects in various stages of development which have the potential to materially increase the Company's reserves. The Company's strategy is to maintain a pipeline of seven to ten of these high-potential prospects and to test four or more targets each year, while furthering the development of early-stage projects and continuing the evaluation of potential new exploration prospects.
The Company seeks to develop large-target prospects by using its comprehensive base of geological, geophysical, engineering and production experience in each of its focus areas. The large-target projects typically require relatively long lead times before a well is commenced in order to develop proprietary geologic concepts, assemble leasehold positions and acquire and fully evaluate 3-D seismic or other data. The Company seeks to apply the latest technology, including 3-D seismic imaging, wherever appropriate in its prospect development and evaluation to mitigate a portion of the inherently higher risk of these exploration projects. In addition, the Company seeks to invest in a diversified mix of exploration projects and generally limits its capital exposure by participating with other experienced industry partners.
The following table summarizes the Company's active large-target exploration projects (see also "Properties").
[FN] - --------- (1) Working interests differ from net revenue interests due to royalty interest burdens. St Mary plans to sell or trade a portion of its interest in order to limit the Company's exposure in any one well to 30%. (2) Expected Test Date refers to the period during which the Company anticipates the completion of an exploratory well.
International Operations
In 1997 the Company completed the sale or disposition of the majority of its international investments. In 1998 the Company sold its remaining properties in Canada.
Russian Joint Venture. In February 1997, the Company sold its interest in The Limited Liability Company Chernogorskoye (the "Russian joint venture") to Khanty Mansiysk Oil Corporation ("KMOC"), formerly known as Ural Petroleum Corporation, for consideration totaling $17.6 million. The Company received $5.6 million in cash, before transaction costs, $1.9 million of KMOC common stock and a convertible receivable in a form equivalent to a retained production payment of approximately $10.1 million plus interest at 10% per annum from the limited liability company formed to hold the Russian joint venture. The Company sold the original shares of KMOC stock in August 1999 realizing a gain of $150,000. St. Mary elected to convert its receivable to additional shares of KMOC stock on February 10, 2000, and is actively marketing these shares for sale.
Acquisitions
The Company's strategy is to make selective niche acquisitions of oil and gas properties within its core operating areas in the United States. The Company seeks to acquire properties that complement its existing operations, offer economies of scale and provide further development and exploration opportunities based on proprietary geologic concepts or advanced well completion techniques. Management believes that the Company's success in acquiring attractively priced and under-exploited properties has resulted from its focus on smaller, negotiated transactions where the Company has specialized geologic knowledge or operating experience. In addition, the Company will pursue corporate acquisitions when they can be made on an accretive basis.
Although the Company periodically evaluates large acquisition packages offered in competitive bid or auction formats, the Company has continued to emphasize property acquisitions having values of less than $10 million. This size of acquisition package generally attracts less competition and is where the Company's technical expertise, financial flexibility and structuring experience afford a competitive advantage.
The Company completed $45 million in oil and gas property acquisitions in 1999, the largest dollar value in the Company's history. Included were two larger acquisitions of private companies in exchange for St. Mary common stock. In June 1999, the Company acquired Nance Petroleum in exchange for 259,494 shares of stock and debt assumption of $3.2 million. This transaction added approximately 13.7 million BCFE of reserves. The Company closed the acquisition of King Ranch Energy in December 1999, in a merger in which 2,666,187 shares of common stock were issued. The Company completed several smaller acquisitions totaling $3.7 million in Louisiana and the Anadarko Basin and $1.3 million in the Permian and Williston basins. During the last five years the Company has closed over $105 million of niche acquisitions where proprietary geologic knowledge or operating expertise and an attractive stock and performance track record have afforded the Company a competitive advantage.
In 2000 St. Mary has reserved $32.5 million of its capital program for property acquisitions. However, the Company has the financial capacity to commit substantially greater resources to purchases should additional opportunities be identified.
Reserves
At December 31, 1999, Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers, evaluated properties representing approximately 82% of the Company's total PV-10 value and the Company evaluated the remainder. The PV-10 values shown in the following table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated net proved oil and gas reserves owned by the Company. Neither prices nor costs have been escalated, but prices include the effects of hedging contracts.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999, as prepared by Ryder Scott Company and St. Mary:
[FN] - --------- (1) The Company's year-end 1998 reserves reflect property dispositions of 39.6 BCFE, discoveries and extensions of 40.8 BCFE, acquisitions of 5.3 BCFE, negative price-related revisions of 18.2 BCFE and a write-down of 38.8 BCFE of proved reserves at South Horseshoe Bayou.
The present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes of the Company's reserves was $351 million as of December 31, 1999. This present value is based on a benchmark of prices in effect at that date of $25.60 per barrel of oil (NYMEX) and $2.32 per MMBtu of gas (Gulf Coast spot price), both of which are adjusted for transportation and basis differential. These prices were 112 percent and 25 percent higher, respectively, than prices in effect at the end of 1998.
Production
The following table summarizes the average volumes of oil and gas produced from properties in which the Company held an interest during the periods indicated:
[FN] - --------- (1) Production from South Horseshoe Bayou and sold Oklahoma properties represented 18.1% and 6.5% respectively, or a total of 24.6% of the 1998 production total. (2) Includes the effects of the Company's hedging activities (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Overview").
The Company uses financial hedging instruments, primarily fixed-for-floating price swap agreements and no-cost collar agreements with financial counterparties, to manage its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. The Company also employs the use of exchange-listed financial futures and options as part of its hedging program for crude oil.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information regarding the number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest at December 31, 1999. Productive wells are either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production although currently shut in. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the wells drilled and recompleted in which the Company participated during each of the three years indicated:
[FN] - --------- (1) Does not include 1and 4 gross wells completed on the Company's fee lands during 1998 and 1997, respectively.
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
Domestic Acreage
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases, fee properties, mineral servitudes and lease options held by the Company as of December 31, 1999. Undeveloped acreage includes leasehold interests that may already have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
[FN] - --------- (1) Developed acreage is acreage assigned to producing wells for the spacing unit of the producing formation. Developed acreage in certain of the Company's properties that include multiple formations with different well spacing requirements may be considered undeveloped for certain formations, but have only been included as developed acreage in the presentation above. (2) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves. (3) Includes interests in Alabama, Colorado, Kansas, Mississippi, Utah and Wyoming. St. Mary also holds an override interest in an additional 44,388 gross acres in Utah.
Non-Oil and Gas Activities
Summo Minerals. At December 31, 1998, the Company, through a subsidiary, owned 9.9 million shares or 37% of Summo Minerals Corporation ("Summo") and had advanced $2.9 million to Summo under an interim financing arrangement. Summo is a North American mining company focusing on finding late exploration stage, low to medium-sized copper deposits in the United States. Summo's common shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol "SMA." In June 1999, the Company participated in a financing package arrangement with Summo and Resource Capital Fund L.P. ("RCF"). The Company received $2,096,000 cash and 17,500,000 Summo warrants in exchange for reducing Summo's note receivable to $1,400,000 and transferring 4,962,047 Summo common shares to RCF. As a result of this transfer of shares to RCF the Company's ownership percentage was reduced from 37% to 18%. The loan is secured by Summo's interest in the Lisbon Valley Project and bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.5%. The warrants have an exercise price of CDN$0.12 per share, are fully vested and expire on June 25, 2004. The remaining 4,962,046 shares of Summo common stock that the Company still owns have a recorded value of $255,000 that includes the unrealized gain on marketable equity securities. Management believes that the remaining investment in Summo is realizable. The Company continually analyzes the realizability of its investment in Summo in view of the effects of persistent depressed copper prices and increased worldwide copper inventory levels. In January 2000 Summo issued 1,016,594 shares of its common stock to the Company as payment of interest on the Company's note receivable from Summo. On issuance of these shares, the Company's ownership in Summo increased to 19%.
The June 1999 financing package also resulted in the termination of the May 1997 agreement which was discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A-3 for the year ended December 31, 1998. As a result of the new financing arrangement, the Company is not obligated to fund any future loans to Summo.
Competition
Competition in the oil and gas business is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties, proved undeveloped acreage and leases. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties and for the equipment and labor required for their operation and development. The Company believes that the locations of its leasehold acreage, its exploration, drilling and production capabilities and the experience of its management and that of its industry partners generally enable the Company to compete effectively. Many of the Company's competitors, however, have financial resources and exploration, development and acquisition budgets that are substantially greater than those of the Company, and these may adversely affect the Company's ability to compete, particularly in regions outside of the Company's principal producing areas. Because of this competition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in finding and acquiring producing properties and development and exploration prospects at its planned capital funding levels.
Markets and Major Customers
During 1999 one customer individually accounted for 13.3% of the Company's total oil and gas production revenue. During 1998 no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's total oil and gas production revenue. During 1997 two customers individually accounted for 10.6% and 10.2% of the Company's total oil and gas production revenue.
Government Regulations
The Company's business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, taxation and environmental protection. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas.
The Company's operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, and the payment of such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
Certain operations the Company conducts are on Federal oil and gas leases that the Minerals Management Service (the 'MMS') administers. The MMS issues such leases through competitive bidding. These leases contain relatively standardized terms and require compliance with detailed MMS regulations and orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change by the MMS). For offshore operations, lessees must obtain MMS approval for exploration plans and development and production plans prior to the commencement of such operations. In addition to permits required from other agencies (such as the Coast Guard, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency), lessees must obtain a permit from the MMS prior to the commencement of drilling. Lessees must also comply with detailed MMS regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for offshore production facilities, safety procedures, flaring of production, plugging and abandonment of Outer Continental Shelf OCS wells, calculation of royalty payments and the valuation of production for this purpose, and removal of facilities. To cover the various obligations of lessees on the OCS, the MMS generally requires that lessees post substantial bonds or other acceptable assurances that such obligations will be met. The cost of such bonds or other surety can be substantial, and there is no assurance that the Company can continue to obtain bonds or other surety in all cases. Under certain circumstances the MMS may require any Company operations on Federal leases to be suspended or terminated.
The MMS has under consideration proposals to change the method of calculating royalties and the valuation of crude oil produced from federal leases. These changes, if adopted, would modify the valuation procedures for crude oil to reduce use of oil posted prices and assign a value to crude oil intended to better reflect market value. The Company cannot predict what action the MMS will take on this matter, or can it predict at this stage how the Company might be affected if the MMS adopts such changes.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes at the federal, state and local level could have a material impact on the Company.
Title to Properties
Substantially all of the Company's working interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. A title opinion is usually obtained prior to the commencement of drilling operations on properties. The Company has obtained title opinions or conducted a thorough title review on substantially all of its producing properties and believes that it has satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. The Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. The Company performs only a minimal title investigation before acquiring undeveloped properties.
Operational Hazards and Insurance
The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any such event could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life; severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; clean-up responsibilities; regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company and the operators of properties in which it has an interest maintain insurance against some, but not all, potential risks. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. The occurrence of a significant unfavorable event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost or at all.
Employees and Office Space
As of December 31, 1999, the Company had 142 full-time employees. None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company leases approximately 35,900 square feet of office space in Denver, Colorado, for its executive and administrative offices, of which 7,200 square feet is subleased. The Company also leases approximately 15,000 square feet of office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma, approximately 7,300 square feet of office space in Shreveport, Louisiana, approximately 7,500 square feet in Lafayette, Louisiana and approximately 10,900 square feet in Billings, Montana. The Company believes that its current facilities are adequate.
Glossary
The terms defined in this section are used throughout this Form 10-K.
2-D seismic or 2-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a two-dimensional cross-section of the subsurface.
3-D seismic or 3-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a three-dimensional picture of the subsurface.
Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
Bcf. Billion cubic feet, used herein in reference to natural gas.
BCFE. Billion cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Behind pipe reserves. Estimated net proved reserves in a formation in which production casing has already been set in the wellbore but has not been perforated and production tested.
BOE. Barrels of oil equivalent. Oil equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Development well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
Dry hole. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Estimated net proved reserves. The estimated quantities of oil, gas and gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Exploratory well. A well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
Fee land. The most extensive interest which can be owned in land, including surface and mineral (including oil and gas) rights.
Finding cost. Expressed in dollars per BOE. Finding costs are calculated by dividing the amount of total capital expenditures for oil and gas activities by the amount of estimated net proved reserves added during the same period (including the effect on proved reserves of reserve revisions).
Gross acres. An acre in which a working interest is owned.
Gross well. A well in which a working interest is owned.
Hydraulic fracturing. A procedure to stimulate production by forcing a mixture of fluid and proppant (usually sand) into the formation under high pressure. This creates artificial fractures in the reservoir rock which increases permeability and porosity.
MBbl. One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MMBbl. One million barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MBOE. One thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
MMBOE. One million barrels of oil equivalent.
Mcf. One thousand cubic feet.
MCFE. One thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
MMcf. One million cubic feet.
MMCFE. One million cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
MMBtu. One million British Thermal Units. A British Thermal Unit is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water one degree Fahrenheit.
Net acres or net wells. The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
Net asset value per share. The result of the fair market value of total assets less total liabilities, divided by the total number of outstanding shares of common stock.
PV-10 value. The present value of estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of estimated net proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date indicated (unless such prices or costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expenses or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%.
Productive well. A well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production.
Proved developed reserves. Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped reserves. Reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Recompletion. The completion for production of an existing wellbore in another formation from that in which the well has previously been completed.
Reserve life. Expressed in years, represents the estimated net proved reserves at a specified date divided by forecasted production for the following 12-month period.
Royalty. The interest paid to the owner of mineral rights expressed as a percentage of gross income from oil and gas produced and sold unencumbered by expenses.
Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to shares of oil and gas production free of costs of exploration, development and production. Royalty interests are approximate and are subject to adjustment.
Undeveloped acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves.
Working interest. The operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and to share in the production.
ITEM 3.