ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Domestic Operations
The Company's exploration, development and acquisition activities are focused in five core operating areas: the Mid-Continent region; south Louisiana; the ArkLaTex region; the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana; and the Permian Basin in west Texas and New Mexico. Information concerning each of the Company's major areas of operations, based on the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1997, is set forth below
- ----------- (1) Includes reserves associated with properties in Alabama, Colorado, Kansas, Mississippi, Utah, Wyoming and Canada.
Mid-Continent Region. The Company has been active in the Mid-Continent region since 1973 where the Company's operations are managed by its 25-person, Tulsa, Oklahoma office. The Company has ongoing exploration and development programs in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Sherman-Marietta Basin of southern Oklahoma and northern Texas. The Mid-Continent region accounted for 33.5% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1997 or 88.8 BCFE (79% proved developed and 94% gas). The Company participated in 73 gross wells and recompletions in this region in 1997, including 18 Company-operated wells.
The Company's development and exploration budget in the Mid- Continent region for 1998 totals $32 million. The Company plans to operate 22 wells (62% of the Mid-Continent budget) in the Mid-Continent region during 1998 and to utilize four to five drilling rigs throughout the year. St. Mary also expects to participate in an additional 30 to 40 wells to be operated by other entities.
Anadarko Basin. The Company's 1998 Mid-Continent capital budget of $32 million will focus on higher potential prospects in the Morrow, Hunton and Springer formations targeting per well reserves of 5 to 30 Bcf of gas. The 1998 Mid-Continent program is balanced by additional lower-risk drilling in the Granite Wash play. In recent years the Company has achieved success rates exceeding 90 percent in the Granite Wash based on an extensive geologic study of the formation in Washita and Beckham Counties, Oklahoma, undertaken by the Company during 1993 and 1994.
Sherman-Marietta Basin. In the Sherman-Marietta Basin of northeast Texas, St. Mary has identified a series of prospect areas to the south of the Red River in Cooke and Grayson Counties. Geologic studies of the complexly faulted edge of this basin have yielded prospects in both the shallower Penn sands as well as the deeper Oil Creek and Arbuckle formations. A twelve square mile 3-D seismic survey at the Company's South Dexter prospect area in 1994 led to a discovery in the Ordovician Oil Creek sands during 1996. St. Mary plans to drill several tests in its South Dexter prospect area in 1998.
In addition, the Company has a 41% working interest in its large-target Red Branch prospect that is located in Cooke County, Texas. This Arbuckle and Oil Creek prospect is scheduled for late 1998 and St. Mary will operate the well. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Carrier Prospect. Within its inventory of large-target prospects, the Company holds an aggregate 11.2% working interest in 25,800 acres in Leon County, Texas in the Cotton Valley reef play. The Company's Carrier Prospect acreage is located approximately nine miles east of the trend of the industry's initial prolific reef discoveries and targets potentially larger reefs that are postulated to have developed in the deeper waters of the basin during the Jurassic period. The Company and its partners completed a 52 square mile 3-D seismic survey in 1997 and expect to complete processing and interpretation of the seismic data and final evaluation of the prospective acreage by mid 1998. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
South Louisiana Region. The Company's operations in south Louisiana include its royalty interests in St. Mary Parish, working interests in properties acquired in 1997 and a number of large-target prospects located both on its fee lands and in separate prospect areas in south Louisiana. The south Louisiana region accounted for 21.2% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1997 or 56.4 BCFE (97% proved developed, 88% gas).
Fee Lands. The Company owns 24,914 acres of fee lands and associated mineral rights in St. Mary Parish, located approximately 85 miles southwest of New Orleans. St. Mary also owns a 25% working interest in approximately 300 acres located offshore and immediately south of the Company's fee lands. Since the initial discovery on the Company's fee lands in 1938, cumulative oil and gas revenues, primarily landowner's royalties, to the Company from the Bayou Sale, Horseshoe Bayou and Belle Isle Fields on its fee have exceeded $215 million. St. Mary currently leases 17,556 acres of its fee lands and has an additional 7,358 acres that are presently unleased. The Company's principal lessees are Texaco, Vastar, Oryx, Mobil and Sam Gary Jr. and Associates, a private exploration company headquartered in Denver.
St. Mary has encouraged development drilling by its lessees, facilitated the origination of new prospects on acreage not held by production and stimulated exploration interest in deeper, untested horizons. The Company's major discovery on its fee lands at South Horseshoe Bayou in early 1997 and a subsequent successful confirmation well in early 1998 proved that significant accumulations of gas could be sourced and trapped at depths below 16,000 feet. Net production from the Company's fee lands increased by 13% in 1997 and 16% in 1996 as a result of the continuing development of the shallower formations on the property and production from the deep gas discovery at South Horseshoe Bayou. The Company's fee properties contributed approximately $8.8 million, or 11.6%, of St. Mary's gross oil and gas production revenues in 1997 and currently have gross production of over 60 MMcf and 1.8 MBbls per day.
St. Mary granted 3,088 acres of new leases on its fee lands during 1997 and received associated cash bonus payments of $757,000. New leases provide the Company with a 25% royalty on all production and the option to participate as up to a 25% working interest owner. Accordingly, as in the case of the discovery and confirmation well at South Horseshoe Bayou, St. Mary bears 25% of the costs but receives approximately 40% of the revenues. In 1997 St. Mary opened an exploration office in Lafayette, Louisiana as part of its strategy to expand activities in the transition zone of the Gulf Coast.
St. Mary's historical presence in southern Louisiana, its established network of industry relationships and its extensive technical database on the area have enabled the Company to assemble an inventory of large-target prospects in the south Louisiana region.
South Horseshoe Bayou Prospect Discovery. In February 1997 the Company announced a significant deep gas discovery on its fee lands in St. Mary Parish at the St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 2 well. This well was completed in sands below 17,300 feet and produced over six Bcf of gas during 1997. In January 1998 a confirmation well, the St. Mary Land & Exploration No. 3, was completed in the same interval at a rate of over 35 MMcf per day. The Company expects to recomplete the No. 2 well in a lower pay zone at approximately 17,900 feet in April 1998. The Company believes that an additional well may be required to evaluate an adjacent but separate fault block situated immediately to the north of the two existing wells. St. Mary will evaluate this prospect during 1998 with the goal of drilling a well in late 1998 or early 1999. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Roanoke Prospect Discovery. St. Mary and its partners control approximately 8,800 gross acres at the Roanoke Prospect in Jefferson Davis Parish through a combination of seismic permits, options and leases. St. Mary holds a 33.3 % working interest in the prospect area. The Roanoke Field, originally discovered in 1934, has produced over 25 MMBbls of oil and 100 Bcf of gas. This is a complexly faulted salt dome field and was considered by the Company to be an excellent candidate for re-evaluation using modern 3-D seismic imaging to identify potential by-passed pays and untested fault blocks.
The first exploratory test at Roanoke was successfully completed in September 1997 as a discovery in the Frio formation and is currently producing over 7.0 MMcf per day. In 1998 St. Mary and its partners plan to test a second prospect at Roanoke targeting the Hackberry formation on a separate fault block. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Atchafalaya Bay Prospect. In March 1997 the Company and its partner acquired seven tracts (2,845 gross acres) in a Louisiana state lease sale in Atchafalaya Bay. The leases are located approximately two miles south of the Company's 1997 discovery at South Horseshoe Bayou and lie in water depths of less than five feet in the delta of Atchafalaya Bay.
St. Mary holds a 40% working interest in this large, 3-D defined prospect below 16,000 feet that targets the same sands found to be productive at South Horseshoe Bayou. The Company expects that several wells will be required to fully test the prospect due to its size and configuration.
An initial exploratory test at Atchafalaya was commenced in September 1997 but experienced serious drilling problems in October when an over-pressured sand was penetrated below 12,000 feet. The initial well was plugged and abandoned due to these drilling problems and a replacement well was started in November 1997. The current well is drilling below 16,000 feet and is scheduled to reach total depth of approximately 19,000 feet in April 1998. If successful, the Company estimates that the initial well could be connected to pipeline facilities within approximately 60 days of completion of the well. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Belle Bayou Prospects. A series of four separate deep gas prospect have been identified on the eastern portion of the Company's fee lands on the western flank of the Belle Isle Field. St. Mary has a 12.5% working interest and a 25% royalty interest in the first exploratory test that commenced drilling in March 1998. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Patterson Prospect. The Company's Patterson prospect is located approximately 20 miles north of the Company's fee lands in St. Mary Parish. St. Mary holds a 25% working interest in leases and options totaling approximately 5,573 acres in the prospect area which lies within a major east-west producing trend between the Garden City and Patterson Fields. An unsuccessful 19,000-foot test was drilled in 1995 based on 2-D seismic data and existing well control. In order to further evaluate this prospect, in 1997 St. Mary and its partners purchased 20 square miles of a regional 3-D seismic survey. In 1998 St. Mary plans to reenter and sidetrack the existing well to test a newly defined prospect targeting the MA-3 and MA-7 formations. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
ArkLaTex Region. The Company's operations in the ArkLaTex area are managed by the Company's 12-person office in Shreveport, Louisiana. The ArkLaTex region accounted for 21.2% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1997 or 56.2 BCFE (81% proved developed and 90% gas). The Company's 1998 capital budget provides $8.1 for additional drilling, primarily for continued development at the Haynesville and Box Church Fields.
In 1992 the Company acquired the ArkLaTex oil and gas properties of T. L. James & Company, Inc. as well as rights to over 6,000 miles of proprietary 2-D seismic data in the region. St. Mary's holdings in the ArkLaTex region are comprised of interests in approximately 426 producing wells, including 58 Company-operated wells, and interests in leases totaling approximately 45,600 gross acres and mineral servitudes totaling approximately 15,600 gross acres. Since 1992, the Company has completed six additional acquisitions of producing properties in the region totaling $10.3 million and has undertaken an active program of additional development and exploration.
In 1994 and 1995 the Company extended the Bayou D'Arbonne Field in Union Parish, Louisiana with six successful wells in the Cotton Valley sand formation. Since the Company's discovery at the Haynesville Field in Clairborne Parish, Louisiana in 1995, St. Mary has drilled or participated in ten successful wells in the Haynesville formation and plans to drill or participate in seven additional wells in the field during 1998.
The Company and its partner acquired the Box Church Field (approximately 2,112 gross acres) in Limestone County, Texas in four separate transactions during 1995 and 1996. The Company's net acquisition cost totaled $2.6 million, and the Company operates and holds an average 58% working interest in three units comprising this field. During 1996, the Company made a significant discovery in the Box Church Field in the Upper and Lower Travis Peak formations (approximately 7,500 feet) and the Cotton Valley formation (approximately 9,000 feet). This discovery resulted at year-end 1996 in the addition of 26.4 Bcf of estimated net proved reserves, representing a 35% increase in the Company's gas reserves. At the end of 1997 there were 18 producing wells in the Box Church Field and an additional three wells awaiting completion. The Company's development program increased gross production at the Box Church Field from approximately 2.5 MMcf per day when the field was acquired to over 22 MMcf per day in December 1997. The Company plans to drill four additional wells at Box Church in 1998.
Williston Basin Region. The Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra Petroleum, a general partnership formed in June 1991. The Company holds a 74% general partnership interest in Panterra and the managing partner, Nance Petroleum Corporation ("Nance Petroleum"), owns a 26% interest. Nance Petroleum's principal activity is the management of Panterra's interest in the Williston Basin. All of St. Mary's and Nance Petroleum's activities in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra, which currently owns interests in 63 fields within the basin's core producing area including 108,000 gross acres, 68 Panterra-operated wells and 175 wells operated by other parties.
The Williston Basin region accounted for 12.7% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1997 or 33.6 BCFE (94% proved developed and 89% oil). St. Mary has budgeted approximately $4.1 million as its share of Panterra's 1998 development and exploration program, which includes three Panterra-operated wells.
The Company's exploration and development activities in the Williston Basin have focused on the application of 3-D seismic data to delineate structural and stratigraphic features which were not previously discernible using conventional 2-D seismic. Panterra has conducted over 45 square miles of 3-D seismic surveys covering selected portions of the North Bainville Field in Roosevelt County, Montana; the Brush Lake Field in Sheridan County, Montana; the Nameless Field in McKenzie County, North Dakota and the Mondak Field on the Montana/North Dakota border. These surveys have generated a series of prospects and have resulted in the drilling of 13 Panterra-operated development and exploration wells since 1991 with a 100% success rate.
St. Mary plans to evaluate additional opportunities at the North Bainville, Brush Lake and Mondak Fields and to build its prospect inventory during 1998.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin of New Mexico and west Texas is the Company's newest area of concentration. Management believes that its Permian Basin operations provide St. Mary with a solid base of long lived oil reserves, promising longer-term exploration and development prospects and the potential for secondary recovery projects. The Company established a presence in the basin in 1995 through the acquisition of a 21.2% working interest in a top lease in Ward and Winkler Counties, Texas which is believed to have significant development and exploration potential. The Company expanded its holdings in the basin during 1996 with the acquisition of a 90% interest in the producing properties of Siete Oil & Gas Corporation. The Permian Basin region accounted for 10.2% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1997 or 27.0 BCFE (91% proved developed and 82% oil).
Ward Estes. The Company acquired a 21.2% interest in the top lease in the Ward Estes North Field in Ward County, Texas for $1.7 million in 1995. The top lease covers 30,450 contiguous acres and becomes effective in August 2000 when the existing base lease expires. Rights to all remaining production from the leasehold will transfer to St. Mary and its partners in August 2000. Wells covered by the base lease currently produce in excess of 6,000 barrels of oil per day from relatively shallow formations and are expected to have significant remaining reserves when the base lease expires.
The Company believes that the Ward Estes top lease provides it with the attractive combination of a low-risk acquisition of long-lived oil reserves and a long-term exploration and development project. St. Mary and its partners have initiated discussions to determine whether the remaining two and one-half years of the base lease can be acquired from the existing holder. However, there can be no assurance that these negotiations will prove successful or that St. Mary will gain access to the property prior to the expiration of the base lease in August 2000. See "Large- Target Exploration Projects."
Siete Properties. In 1996 the Company completed the acquisition of a 90% interest in the oil and gas properties of Siete Oil & Gas Corporation for $10.0 million. The acquisition included approximately 150 wells in southeast New Mexico and west Texas producing from the Yates/Queen, Delaware and Bone Springs sands at depths of between 3,500 and 7,500 feet which are operated by the Company's 10% partner. The acquired reserves were approximately 80% oil and had a reserve life of approximately 15 years. During the balance of 1996 and in 1997 the Company completed a series of follow-on acquisitions of smaller interests in the Siete properties which totaled $4.6 million.
In 1998 St. Mary plans to invest approximately $6.8 million in several projects including the expansion of a successful pilot waterflood project at the Parkway Field and the commencement of a waterflood of the Shugart Field, which were part of the Siete acquisition made in 1996.
Large-Target Exploration Projects. The Company invests approximately 15% to 20% of its annual capital budget in longer-term, higher-risk, high-potential exploration projects. During the past several years the Company has assembled an inventory of large potential projects in various stages of development which have the potential to materially increase the Company's reserves. The Company's strategy is to maintain a pipeline of seven to ten of these high-potential prospects and to test four or more targets each year, while furthering the development of early-stage projects and continuing the evaluation of potential new exploration prospects.
The Company generally seeks to develop large-target prospects by using its comprehensive base of geological, geophysical, engineering and production experience in each of its focus areas. The large-target projects typically require relatively long lead times before a well is commenced in order to develop proprietary geologic concepts, assemble leasehold positions and acquire and fully evaluate 3-D seismic or other data. The Company seeks wherever appropriate to apply the latest technology, including 3-D seismic imaging, in its prospect development and evaluation so as to mitigate a portion of the inherently higher risk of these exploration projects. In addition, the Company seeks to invest in a diversified mix of exploration projects and generally limits its capital exposure by participating with other experienced industry partners.
The following table summarizes the Company's active large-target exploration projects. See also "Properties."
- ------------ (1) Working interests differ from net revenue interests due to royalty interest burdens. (2) Royalty interests are approximate and are subject to adjustment. St. Mary has no capital at risk with respect to its royalty interests. (3) Expected Test Date refers to the period during which the Company anticipates the completion of an exploratory well.
International Operations
In 1997 the Company completed the sale or disposition of its remaining international investments, with the exception of minor working interests in properties in Canada, which represented less than one percent of the Company's estimated proved reserves at December 31, 1997.
Russian Joint Venture. In February 1997, the Company sold its interests in its Russian joint venture to Khanty Mansiysk Oil Corporation ("KMOC"), formerly known as Ural Petroleum Corporation for consideration totaling $17.6 million. The Company received $5.6 million in cash, before transaction costs, $1.9 million of KMOC common stock and a convertible receivable in a form equivalent to a retained production payment of approximately $10.1 million plus interest at 10% per annum from the limited liability company formed to hold the Russian joint venture. The Company's receivable is collateralized by the partnership interest sold and the Company has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require KMOC to purchase the receivable from the net proceeds of an initial public offering of KMOC common stock or alternatively, the Company may elect to convert all or a portion of its receivable into KMOC common stock immediately prior to an initial public offering of KMOC common stock.
Trinidad and Tobago. In 1997 the Company relinquished its 7.47% reversionary interest in a 281,506-acre onshore exploration and production license in the Caroni Basin of Trinidad and Tobago.
Key Relationships
The Company cultivates strategic partnerships with independent oil and gas operators having region-specific experience and specialized technical skills. The Company's strategy is to serve as operator or alternatively to maintain a majority interest in such ventures to ensure that it can exercise significant influence over development and exploration activities. In addition the Company seeks industry partners who are willing to co-invest on substantially the same basis as the Company. For example, the Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra in which St. Mary holds a 74% general partnership interest. The managing partner of Panterra is Nance Petroleum Corporation, the principal of which has over 25 years of experience in the Williston Basin.
Acquisitions
The Company's strategy is to make selective niche acquisitions of oil and gas properties within its core operating areas in the United States. The Company seeks to acquire properties that complement its existing operations, offer economies of scale and provide further development and exploration opportunities based on proprietary geologic concepts or advanced well completion techniques. Management believes that the Company's success in acquiring attractively priced and under-exploited properties has resulted from its focus on smaller, negotiated transactions where the Company has specialized geologic knowledge or operating experience.
Although the Company periodically evaluates large acquisition packages offered in competitive bid or auction formats, the Company has continued to emphasize acquisitions having values of less than $10 million which generally attract less competition and where the Company's technical expertise, financial flexibility and structuring experience affords a competitive advantage. The Company seeks acquisitions that offer additional development and exploration opportunities such as its series of acquisitions in the Box Church Field of east Texas during 1995 and 1996. During 1996 and 1997, the Company purchased eleven parcels for $21.0 million and five parcels for $27.3 million, respectively. For 1998 the Company has budgeted $20 million for property acquisitions.
Reserves
At December 31, 1997, Ryder Scott, independent petroleum engineers, evaluated properties representing approximately 82% of the Company's total PV-10 Value and the Company evaluated the remainder. The PV-10 Values shown in the following table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated net proved oil and gas reserves owned by the Company. Neither prices nor costs have been escalated, but prices include the effects of hedging contracts.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997, as prepared by Ryder Scott and by the Company.
As of December 31, ---------------------------------- 1997 1996 1995 -------- -------- -------- Proved Reserves Data: (1) Oil (MBbls)........................... 11,493 10,691 7,509 Gas (MMcf)............................ 196,230 127,057 75,705 MMCFE................................. 265,188 191,202 120,762 PV-10 value (in thousands)............ $262,006 $296,461 $120,192 Proved developed reserves............. 87% 84% 89% Production replacement................ 358% 422% 203% Reserve life (years).................. 8.8 8.4 6.5 - ------------ (1) Reserve data attributable to the Company's Russian joint venture have been excluded from this table. Effective February 12, 1997, the Company sold its Russian joint venture. See "International Operations."
Production
The following table summarizes the average volumes of oil and gas produced from properties in which the Company held an interest during the periods indicated.
Years Ended December 31, ----------------------------- 1997 1996 1995 ------ ------ ------ Operating Data: Net production: Oil (MBbls)................................ 1,188 1,186 1,044 Gas (MMcf)................................. 22,900 15,563 12,434 MMCFE...................................... 30,024 22,680 18,696 Average net daily production: Oil (Bbls)................................. 3,254 3,240 2,852 Gas (Mcf).................................. 62,739 42,522 33,973 MCFE....................................... 82,263 61,962 51,084 Average sales price: (1) Oil (per Bbl).............................. $18.87 $18.64 $16.37 Gas (per Mcf).............................. $ 2.33 $ 2.23 $ 1.56 Additional per BOE data: Lease operating expense.................... $ 2.09 $ 2.28 $ 2.49 Production taxes........................... $ 0.96 $ 1.13 $ 0.93 - ------------ (1) Includes the effects of the Company's hedging activities. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Overview."
The Company uses financial hedging instruments, primarily fixed-for-floating price swap agreements and cost-less collar agreements with financial counterparties, to manage its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. The Company also employs limited use of exchange-listed financial futures and options as part of its hedging program for crude oil.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information regarding the number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest at December 31, 1997. Productive wells are either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production although currently shut in. One or more completions in the same borehole are counted as one well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
Gross Net ----- ----- Oil 578 166 Gas 837 123 ----- ----- Total 1,415 289 ===== =====
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the wells in which the Company participated during each of the three years indicated.
Years Ended December 31, -------------------------------------------- 1997 1996 1995 ------------ ------------ ------------ Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Domestic: Development: Oil.......................... 10 3.06 17 3.91 6 1.52 Gas.......................... 92 19.64 74 13.29 38 7.75 Non-productive............... 15 4.35 11 2.70 6 2.00 --- ----- --- ----- --- ----- Total.................... 117 27.05 102 19.90 50 11.27 === ===== === ===== === ===== Exploratory: Oil.......................... 4 1.21 - - 5 1.56 Gas.......................... 7 2.04 5 1.25 8 0.74 Non-productive............... 5 1.93 10 3.10 16 4.19 --- ----- --- ----- --- ----- Total.................... 16 5.18 15 4.35 29 6.49 === ===== === ===== === ===== Farmout or non-consent 4 - 9 - 4 - === ===== === ===== === ===== International: Development: Oil.......................... - - 22 3.96 5 0.90 Gas.......................... - - - - 1 0.06 Non-productive............... - - - - - - --- ----- --- ----- --- ----- Total.................... - - 22 3.96 6 0.96 === ===== === ===== === ===== Exploratory: Oil.......................... - - - - - - Gas.......................... - - - - - - Non-productive............... - - - - - - --- ----- --- ----- --- ----- Total.................... - - - - - - === ===== === ===== === ===== Farmout or non-consent - - - - - - === ===== === ===== === ===== Grand Total(1) .................. 137 32.23 148 28.21 89 18.72 === ===== === ===== === ===== - ------------ (1) Does not include 4, 3 and 4 gross wells completed on the Company's fee lands during 1995, 1996, and 1997, respectively.
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
Domestic and International Acreage
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases, fee properties, mineral servitudes and lease options held by the Company as of December 31, 1997. Undeveloped acreage includes leasehold interests that may already have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
- ----------- (1) Developed acreage is acreage assigned to producing wells for the spacing unit of the producing formation. Developed acreage in certain of the Company's properties that include multiple formations with different well spacing requirements may be considered undeveloped for certain formations, but have only been included as developed acreage in the presentation above. (2) Undeveloped acreage is lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves. (3) Includes interests in Alabama, Colorado, Kansas, Mississippi, Utah and Wyoming. St. Mary also holds an override interest in an additional 45,919 gross acres in Utah.
Non-Oil and Gas Activities
Summo Minerals. The Company, through a subsidiary, owns 9.9 million shares or 37% of Summo Minerals Corporation ("Summo"), a North American copper mining company focusing on finding late exploration stage, low to medium sized copper deposits in the United States amenable to the SX-EW extraction process. In addition, the Company owns 616,090 warrants and options to purchase common shares, exercisable at a price of Cdn $1.10 and which expire October 17, 1998. Summo's common shares are listed on the Toronto stock exchange under the symbol "SMA". The Company's investment in Summo had a market value of $1.8 million at December 31, 1997.
In May 1997, the Company entered into an agreement to receive a 55% interest in Summo's Lisbon Valley Copper Project (the "Project") in return for the Company contributing $4.0 million in cash, all of its outstanding stock in Summo, and $8.6 million in letters of credit to a single purpose company, Lisbon Valley Mining Company LLC, formed to own and operate the Project. Summo will contribute the property, all project permits and contracts, $3.2 million in cash, and a commitment for senior debt financing in return for a 45% interest in the new company. The agreement is subject to certain conditions, including the final resolution of regulatory approvals and finalization of the necessary project financing. Summo has completed tests of the ground water quality to address concerns raised on appeal during the permitting process. The results of these tests support the original conclusions and recommendations made by the Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") when the Project was initially approved. A decision from the Interior Board of Land Appeals ("IBLA") is expected in mid 1998.
The Company has agreed to provide interim financing of up to $2.7 million for the Project in the form of a loan to Summo due in June 1999. As of December 31, 1997, $2.1 million was outstanding under this loan. Any principal and interest amounts outstanding are convertible into shares of Summo common stock anytime after June 30, 1998 at the option of the Company. Upon capitalization of the new company the outstanding loan principal shall constitute a capital contribution in partial satisfaction of the Company's capital commitments set out in the May 1997 agreement. Management believes the long-term outlook for copper prices is favorable and plans to continue providing interim financing during 1998 until Summo receives final regulatory approval and copper prices recover adequately to justify construction using permanent financing. There can be no assurance that the Company will realize a return on its investment in Summo or the Project.
Competition
Competition in the oil and gas business is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties, proved undeveloped acreage and leases. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties and for the equipment and labor required for their operation and development. The Company believes that the locations of its leasehold acreage, its exploration, drilling and production capabilities and the experience of its management and that of its industry partners generally enable the Company to compete effectively. Many of the Company's competitors, however, have financial resources and exploration, development and acquisition budgets that are substantially greater than those of the Company, and these may adversely affect the Company's ability to compete, particularly in regions outside of the Company's principal producing areas. Because of this competition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in finding and acquiring producing properties and development and exploration prospects at its planned capital funding levels.
Markets and Major Customers
During 1997 two customers individually accounted for 10.6% and 10.2% of the Company's total oil and gas production revenue. Sales to one of these customers constituted 17.3% of total 1996 oil and gas production revenue. There were no sales to individual customers constituting 10% or more of total oil and gas production revenue during 1995.
Government Regulations
The Company's business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, taxation and environmental protection. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas.
The Company's operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, and the payment of such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been introduced in Congress that would reclassify certain exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were enacted, it could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on the Company.
Title to Properties
Substantially all of the Company's working interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. A title opinion is usually obtained prior to the commencement of drilling operations on properties. The Company has obtained title opinions or conducted a thorough title review on substantially all of its producing properties and believes that it has satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. The Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of the Company's oil and gas properties are mortgaged to secure borrowings under the Company's credit facilities. The Company performs only a minimal title investigation before acquiring undeveloped properties.
Operational Hazards and Insurance
The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company and operators of properties in which it has an interest maintain insurance against some, but not all, potential risks; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. The occurrence of a significant unfavorable event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost or at all.
Employees and Office Space
As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 103 full-time employees. None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company leases approximately 34,500 square feet of office space in Denver, Colorado, for its executive offices, of which 7,200 square feet is subleased. The Company also leases approximately 15,000 square feet of office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma, approximately 7,300 square feet of office space in Shreveport, Louisiana and approximately 500 square feet in Lafayette, Louisiana. The Company believes that its current facilities are adequate.
Glossary
The terms defined in this section are used throughout this Form 10-K.
2-D seismic or 2-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a two-dimensional cross-section of the subsurface.
3-D seismic or 3-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a three-dimensional picture of the subsurface.
Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
Bcf. Billion cubic feet, used herein in reference to natural gas.
BCFE. Billion cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Behind pipe reserves. Estimated net proved reserves in a formation in which production casing has already been set in the wellbore but has not been perforated and production tested.
BOE. Barrels of oil equivalent. Oil equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Development well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
Dry hole. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Estimated net proved reserves. The estimated quantities of oil, gas and gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Exploratory well. A well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
Fee land. The most extensive interest which can be owned in land, including surface and mineral (including oil and gas) rights.
Finding Cost. Expressed in dollars per BOE, Finding Costs are calculated by dividing the amount of total capital expenditures for oil and gas activities by the amount of estimated net proved reserves added during the same period (including the effect on proved reserves of reserve revisions).
Gross acres. An acre in which a working interest is owned.
Gross well. A well in which a working interest is owned.
MBbl. One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MMBbl. One million barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MBOE. One thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
MMBOE. One million barrels of oil equivalent.
Mcf. One thousand cubic feet.
MCFE. One thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
MMcf. One million cubic feet.
MMCFE. One million cubic feet of gas equivalent. Gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
MMBtu. One million British Thermal Units. A British Thermal Unit is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water one degree Fahrenheit.
Net acres or net wells. The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
PV-10 Value. The present value of estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of estimated net proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date indicated (unless such prices or costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expenses or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%.
Productive well. A well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production.
Proved developed reserves. Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped reserves. Reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Recompletion. The completion for production of an existing wellbore in another formation from that in which the well has previously been completed.
Reserve Life. Reserve Life, expressed in years, represents the estimated net proved reserves at a specified date divided by actual production for the trailing 12-month period.
Royalty. That interest paid to the owner of mineral rights expressed as a percentage of gross income from oil and gas produced and sold unencumbered by expenses.
Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to shares of oil and gas production free of costs of exploration, development and production. Royalty interests are approximate and are subject to adjustment.
Undeveloped acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves.
Working interest. The operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and to share in the production.
ITEM 3.