ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Domestic Operations
The Company's exploration, development and acquisition activities are focused in five core operating areas: the Mid-Continent region; the ArkLaTex region; south Louisiana; the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana; and the Permian Basin in west Texas and New Mexico. Set forth below is information concerning each of the Company's major areas of operations based on the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996.
Mid-Continent Region. The Company has been active in the Mid-Continent region since 1973 where the Company's operations are managed by its 25-person, Tulsa, Oklahoma office. The Company has ongoing exploration and development programs in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Sherman-Marietta Basin of southern Oklahoma and northern Texas. The Mid-Continent region accounted for 34% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996 or 10.9 MMBOE (92% proved developed and 94% gas). The Company participated in 75 gross wells and recompletions in this region in 1996, including 17 Company-operated wells. The Company's 1997 Mid-Continent capital budget of $26.5 million is divided between low-risk exploration and development of the Granite Wash formation, medium to high-risk prospects in the Red Fork and Upper and Lower Morrow sands and continued exploration and development in the Sherman-Marietta Basin. In addition, the Company has a 24.0% working interest in a large-target prospect in the Cotton Valley Reef play of east Texas. The Company has arranged commitments for three drilling rigs in the Mid-Continent region throughout 1997 and plans to drill 25 to 30 wells to be operated by the Company and participate in an additional 30 wells to be operated by other entities.
Anadarko Basin. An extensive geologic study of the Granite Wash formation in Washita and Beckham Counties, Oklahoma, undertaken by the Company in 1993 and 1994, has led to an ongoing, multi-year development program. Enhanced understanding of the subsurface geology and application of advanced well completion techniques have enabled the Company to exploit by-passed oil and gas reserves and to improve reservoir recoveries. In 1995 and 1996 the Company drilled or participated in a total of 28 gross wells in the Granite Wash, with an overall 94% success rate. The Company's 1997 capital budget provides for continuation of the Granite Wash program. The Company's activities in the Granite Wash are balanced and complemented by its strategy to drill prospects, particularly in the Red Fork and Upper and Lower Morrow formations in Beckham and Roger Mills Counties, Oklahoma. These prospects target reserves at depths ranging from 15,000 to 18,000 feet. St. Mary operated or participated in three successful completions of exploratory wells in the Morrow channel sands during 1996 and approximately one-half of the Company's 1997 Mid-Continent exploration and development budget is allocated to these Red Fork and Morrow prospects.
Sherman-Marietta Basin. In the geologically complex Sherman-Marietta Basin the Company has established a significant acreage position in Cooke and Grayson Counties, Texas in partnership with an independent operator with extensive experience in the area. A twelve square mile 3-D seismic survey at the Company's South Dexter prospect area in 1994 enabled the Company to interpret the area's complex faulting and led to a discovery in the Ordovician Oil Creek sands during 1996. In 1997, the Company plans to continue further exploration in its Red Branch prospect area where it has an approximate 34.1% working interest. The Company continues to lease acreage in the basin and plans additional 3-D projects during 1997 and 1998. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Cotton Valley Reef Play. Within its inventory of large-target prospects, the Company holds a 24.0% working interest in 10,060 acres in Leon County, Texas in the rapidly developing Cotton Valley pinnacle reef play. The Company's Carrier Prospect acreage is located approximately nine miles east of the trend of the industry's initial prolific reef discoveries and targets potentially larger reefs that are postulated to have developed in the deeper waters of the basin during the Jurassic period. The Company has identified a large structural anomaly on its acreage at a depth of approximately 17,000 feet based on interpretation of existing 2-D seismic data and, together with its partners, plans to conduct a 52 square mile 3-D seismic survey in 1997. The Company expects to complete processing and interpretation of the seismic data and final evaluation of the prospective acreage by the end of 1997. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
ArkLaTex Region. The Company's operations in the ArkLaTex area are managed by the Company's 12-person office in Shreveport, Louisiana. In 1992 the Company acquired the ArkLaTex oil and gas properties of T. L. James & Company, Inc. as well as rights to over 6,000 miles of proprietary 2-D seismic data in the region. St. Mary's holdings in the ArkLaTex region are comprised of interests in approximately 450 producing wells, including 51 Company-operated wells, and interests in approximately 1,235 leases totaling approximately 46,000 gross acres and 193 mineral servitudes totaling approximately 20,400 gross acres. Since 1992, the Company has completed eight additional acquisitions of producing properties in the region totaling $6.5 million and has undertaken an active program of additional development and exploration in the ArkLaTex area. The ArkLaTex area accounted for 27% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996 or 8.5 MMBOE (58% proved developed and 87% gas). Activity in the Company's Shreveport office has increased substantially from participation in six wells during 1995 to participation in 22 wells and six workovers and recompletions during 1996, including eleven Company-operated wells. The Company's 1997 capital budget provides for approximately $7.5 million for ongoing development, including continuation of a significant Company-operated development program at its Box Church Field in east Texas. In 1994 and 1995 the Company extended the Bayou D'Arbonne Field in Union Parish, Louisiana with a total of six successful wells in the Cotton Valley Sand formation. In addition, following the Company's discovery in 1995 at the Haynesville Field in Clairborne Parish, Louisiana, St. Mary drilled three successful offset wells in the Haynesville sands during 1996. Three additional wells are planned at Haynesville in 1997.
Box Church Field. The Company and its partner acquired the Box Church Field (approximately 2,112 gross acres) in Limestone County, Texas in four separate transactions during 1995 and 1996. The Company's net acquisition cost totaled $2.6 million, and the Company operates and holds an average 58% working interest in three units comprising this field. At the time of the acquisition of the Box Church Field, production was from the Smackover formation at depths below 10,000 feet. Since acquiring this field, St. Mary has increased production from the Smackover formation from approximately 2.5 MMcf per day to over 5.0 MMcf per day in December 1996.
During 1996, the Company made a significant exploration discovery in the Box Church Field in the Upper and Lower Travis Peak (approximately 7,500 feet) and Cotton Valley formations (approximately 9,000 feet). The discovery well encountered 200 feet of pay in the Upper and Lower Travis Peak formations. The well was completed in the Cotton Valley formation with multiple behind pipe zones in the Travis Peak formations. During 1996, the Company drilled five development wells, of which four were completed in the Cotton Valley formation and the fifth well is currently undergoing completion in the Travis Peak formation. In addition, the Company re-completed a previously drilled well in the Cotton Valley formation and is currently drilling a fifth Cotton Valley well. This exploration and development program in 1996 resulted in the addition of 26.4 Bcf of estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996, approximately 73% of which are classified as proved undeveloped. Average daily gross production during December 1996 for the Cotton Valley and Travis Peak wells was over 16 MMcf per day. During 1997 and 1998, the Company plans to drill seven Cotton Valley and five Travis Peak wells to fully develop this field. The Company has arranged a commitment for a drilling rig throughout 1997 and expects to drill approximately one well per month at an anticipated completed per well cost of $850,000.
South Louisiana Region. The Company's operations in south Louisiana include its royalty interests in St. Mary Parish and a number of large-target prospects located both on its fee lands and in separate prospect areas in south Louisiana. The south Louisiana region accounted for 5% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996 or 1.5 MMBOE (100% proved developed, 84% gas).
Fee Lands. The Company owns approximately 24,900 acres of fee lands and associated mineral rights in St. Mary Parish, located approximately 85 miles southwest of New Orleans. St. Mary also owns a 25% working interest in approximately 300 acres located offshore and immediately south of the Company's fee lands. Since the initial discovery on the Company's fee lands in 1938, which established the Horseshoe Bayou Field, cumulative oil and gas revenues, primarily landowner's royalties, to the Company from its south Louisiana properties have exceeded $200 million. St. Mary owns royalty interests on these lands, including production from the Bayou Sale, Horseshoe Bayou and Belle Isle Fields on its fee lands. Approximately 15,500 acres are leased or subject to lease options and 9,400 acres are presently unleased. The Company's principal lessees are Texaco, Vastar and Oryx. Since 1994, several factors have contributed to renewed development and exploration activity on the Company's fee lands. In 1991 the Company's lessees conducted two separate 3-D seismic surveys over portions of the Company's fee properties. Subsequent interpretation of this data by the lessees has contributed to expanded drilling activity in 1995 and 1996 on the Company's fee lands, including successful completion of seven new wells, 31 recompletions and 18 workovers during this two year period. In addition, during the same time period, St. Mary undertook an independent geological and engineering review of its fee properties and developed a
comprehensive technical data base. Based on this study the Company has encouraged development by its lessees, facilitated the development of new prospects on acreage not held by production and stimulated exploration interest in deeper, untested horizons. These expanded activities, particularly at the Belle Isle Field, have together largely offset the natural decline rate of the existing production on the Company's fee lands during the past several years with net production increasing by 16% in 1996. The Company's fee properties currently have gross production of over 60 MMcf per day and 2.9 MBbls per day and contributed approximately $8.6 million, or 15%, of St. Mary's gross revenues in 1996. St. Mary's independent engineering studies have identified over 70 prospective zones of behind pipe reserves in existing wells on its fee lands. St. Mary's historical presence in southern Louisiana, its established network of industry relationships and its extensive technical database on the area have enabled the Company to assemble an inventory of large-target prospects in the south Louisiana region, including two deep gas prospects which are located on the Company's fee lands and are scheduled to be tested during 1997. The Company believes that a successful deep test on its fee lands, in addition to adding potentially significant reserves to the Company, would likely encourage exploration activity on its fee lands in the largely untested horizons below 15,000 feet.
South Horseshoe Bayou Prospect. The South Horseshoe Bayou prospect is located on St. Mary's fee lands in St. Mary Parish and is the first of three significant deep gas tests in the region scheduled for 1997. St. Mary holds an approximate 22.0% royalty interest and a 25.0% working interest, resulting in an approximate 40% net revenue interest in this 3-D seismic-defined test of the Rob and Operc sands at depths between 17,000 and 19,000 feet. On February 18, 1997 the Company announced that the South Horseshoe Bayou discovery had reached total depth of 19,000 feet, had been completed in the uppermost pay zone below 17,300 feet and was testing directly into the sales line. In initial production tests the well was producing 20 MMcf and 200 Bbls of condensate per day. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Mustang Sale Prospect. St. Mary holds an approximate 12.5% royalty interest in the Mustang Sale prospect which is also located on the Company's south Louisiana fee lands. This 3-D seismic-defined prospect was spud in February 1997 and is scheduled to test two Rob C sands on an untested fault block at a depth of approximately 16,000 feet. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Roanoke Prospect. St. Mary and its partners control approximately 8,800 gross acres at the Roanoke Prospect in Jefferson Davis Parish through a combination of seismic permits, options and leases. The Roanoke Field, originally discovered in 1934, has produced over 25 MMBbls of oil and 100 Bcf of gas and is considered by the Company to be an excellent candidate for re-evaluation using modern 3-D seismic imaging. The Company holds a 33.3% working interest in the prospect and is targeting potential by-passed pays and untested fault blocks in this mature, complexly faulted salt dome field. In late 1995 the Company conducted a 31 square mile 3-D seismic survey and completed processing and interpretation of the seismic data during 1996. The first prospect was spud in January 1997 and current drilling indicates there are multiple pays, including the Frio and Hackberry sands, on an untested fault block. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Patterson Prospect. The Company's Patterson prospect is located to the north of the Company's fee lands in St. Mary Parish. St. Mary holds a 25.0% working interest in leases and options totaling approximately 5,000 acres in the prospect area which lies within a major east-west producing trend between the Garden City and Patterson Fields. In 1995 the Company and its partners drilled an unsuccessful 19,000 foot test based on 2-D seismic data and existing well control. St. Mary and its partners believe that the prospect area remains prospective in several lower Miocene zones, including the Marg and Siph Davisi formations, and the group will participate in a 20 square mile 3-D seismic survey in early 1997 to further delineate this prospect. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Atchafalaya Bay Prospect. The Company (40% working interest) and a partner were recently awarded seven tracts (2,845 gross acres) in a Louisiana state lease sale. This is a 3-D seismic play approximately one mile south of the Company's South Horseshoe Bayou discovery. One well is expected to be spud before the end of 1997. See "Large-Target Exploration Projects."
Williston Basin Region. The Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra which was formed in June 1991. The Company holds a 74% general partnership interest in Panterra and the managing partner, Nance Petroleum Corporation ("Nance Petroleum"), owns a 26% interest. Nance Petroleum's principal activity is the management of Panterra's interest in the Williston Basin. All of St. Mary's and Nance Petroleum's activities in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra, which currently owns interests in 360 producing wells, including 60 Panterra-operated wells located in 60 fields within the basin's core producing area.
The Williston Basin region accounted for 20% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996 or 6.3 MMBOE (93% proved developed and 90% oil). Since 1991 the Company's investment in Panterra has included participation in 11 Panterra-operated development and exploration wells with a 100% success rate. St. Mary has budgeted approximately $6 million as its share of Panterra's 1997 development and exploration program which includes five Panterra-operated wells.
The Company's exploration and development activities in the Williston Basin have focused on the application of 3-D seismic data to delineate structural and stratigraphic features which were not previously discernible using conventional 2-D seismic. In 1994 the Company conducted a 4.5 square-mile 3-D seismic survey at the North Bainville Field in Roosevelt County, Montana. This survey led to the successful 1995 extension to the field in the Red River formation. During 1996 the Company completed an additional four wells at North Bainville and completed an additional 21 square mile 3-D seismic survey. Panterra has increased gross production at North Bainville from approximately 330 Bbls per day in 1991 to over 2,000 Bbls per day at the end of 1996. Three additional wells are planned in the North Bainville area in 1997.
The Company has begun to apply the experience gained at North Bainville to several other fields in the Williston Basin where the Company holds significant leasehold interests. In late 1995 and 1996 3-D seismic surveys were conducted over the Brush Lake and Nameless Fields in Sheridan County, Montana and McKenzie County, North Dakota respectively. During 1996 the Company completed two successful Red River tests at Brush Lake. Two additional wells are planned at the Brush Lake and Nameless fields in 1997.
Permian Basin Region. The Permian Basin of New Mexico and west Texas is the Company's newest area of concentration. Management believes that its Permian Basin operations provide St. Mary with a solid base of long lived oil reserves, promising longer term exploration and development prospects and the potential for secondary recovery projects. The Company established a presence in the basin in 1995 through the acquisition of a 21.2% working interest in a top lease in Ward and Winkler Counties, Texas which is believed to have significant deep exploration potential in the virtually untested deeper formations on the 30,450 acre lease. The Company expanded its holdings in the basin during 1996 with the acquisition of a 90% interest in the producing properties of Siete Oil & Gas Corporation for $10.0 million. The Permian Basin region accounted for 12% of the Company's estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 1996 or 3.7 MMBOE (96% proved developed and 81% oil).
Ward Estes. The Company acquired a 21.2% interest in the top lease in the Ward Estes North Field in Ward County, Texas for $1.7 million in 1995. The top lease covers 30,450 contiguous acres and becomes effective in August 2000 when the existing base lease expires. Rights to all remaining production from the leasehold will transfer to St. Mary and its partners in August 2000. Wells covered by the base lease currently produce in excess of 4.0 MBbls per day from relatively shallow formations and are expected to have significant remaining reserves when the base lease expires. Recent engineering studies indicate that the expanded application of a carbon dioxide flood is economic at current oil prices. Although the deeper Siluro-Devonian and Ellenburger horizons have yielded significant production from several large fields in the immediate area, these deeper formations remain essentially untested on the Ward Estes lease. The Company believes that the top lease provides it with the unusual combination of a low-risk acquisition of long-lived oil reserves and a long term, large-target exploration project. See "Large- Target Exploration Projects."
Siete Properties. In 1996 the Company completed the acquisition of a 90% interest in the oil and gas properties of Siete Oil & Gas Corporation for $10.0 million. The acquisition included approximately 150 wells in southeast New Mexico and west Texas producing from the Yates/Queen, Delaware and Bone Springs sands at depths of between 3,500 and 7,500 feet which are operated by the Company's 10% partner. The acquired reserves are approximately 80% oil and have a reserve life of approximately 15 years. During the balance of 1996 the Company completed a series of follow-on acquisitions of smaller interests in the Siete properties which totaled $1.5 million.
Large-Target Exploration Projects. The Company invests approximately 10% to 15% of its annual capital budget in longer-term, high-risk, high-potential exploration projects. During the past several years the Company has assembled an inventory of large potential projects in various stages of development which each have the potential to materially increase the Company's reserves. The Company's strategy is to maintain a pipeline of five to seven of these high-risk prospects and to test one or more targets each year, while furthering the development of early-stage projects and continuing the evaluation of potential new exploration prospects.
The Company generally seeks to develop large-target prospects by using its comprehensive base of geological, geophysical, engineering and production experience in each of its focus areas. The large-target projects typically require relatively long lead times before a well is commenced in order to develop proprietary geologic concepts, assemble leasehold positions and acquire and fully evaluate 3-D seismic or other data. The Company seeks wherever appropriate to apply the latest technology, including 3-D seismic imaging, in its prospect development and evaluation so as to mitigate a portion of the inherently higher risk of these exploration projects. In addition, the Company seeks to invest in a diversified mix of exploration projects and generally limits its capital exposure by participating with other experienced industry partners.
The following table summarizes the Company's active large-target exploration projects. See also "Properties."
International Operations
The Company, through subsidiaries, has interests in Russia, Trinidad and Tobago and Canada. Substantially all of the Company's international proved reserves are in Russia.
Russian Joint Venture. Until recently, Chelsea Corporation ("Chelsea"), a wholly-owned, second tier subsidiary of the Company, owned a 36% interest in the Anderman/Smith International - Chernogorskoye Partnership which owns a 50% interest in a venture developing the Chernogorskoye oil field in western Siberia (the "Russian joint venture"). On December 16, 1996, the Company executed an Acquisition Agreement to sell its Russian joint venture to UPC. Closing of the transaction occurred on February 12, 1997. In accordance with the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, Chelsea received cash consideration of approximately $5.2 million, approximately $1.7 million of UPC common stock and a receivable in a form equivalent to a retained production payment of approximately $10.3 million plus interest at 10% per annum from the limited liability company formed to hold the Russian joint venture. Chelsea's receivable is collateralized by the partnership interest sold. Chelsea has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require UPC to purchase Chelsea's receivable from the net proceeds of an initial public offering of UPC common stock or alternatively, Chelsea may elect to convert all or a portion of its receivable into UPC common stock immediately prior to an initial public offering of UPC common stock.
Trinidad and Tobago. The Company has entered into an agreement with Conwest Exploration Inc. covering the Company's 281,506 acre onshore exploration and production license in the Caroni Basin, Trinidad and Tobago. The agreement provides that Conwest will pay 100% of the Company's 18.675% commitment to the phase I and optional phase II work programs under the license agreement. The total commitments under the license include 275 km. of 2-D seismic and simultaneous gravity data in phase I, and an additional 100 km. of 2-D seismic and the drilling of two exploratory wells in phase II.
The agreement provides for cash payments of $150,000 in 1995 upon signing, $112,500 in February 1996, and $95,700 in February 1997. The Company's interest in the project at the conclusion of the phase II commitments will be 7.47%.
Key Relationships
The Company has historically cultivated strategic partnerships with independent oil and gas operators having specialized experience and technical skills. The Company's strategy is to serve as operator or alternatively to maintain a majority interest in such ventures to ensure that it can exercise significant influence over development and exploration activities. In addition the Company seeks industry partners who are willing to co-invest on substantially the same basis as the Company. For example, the Company's operations in the Williston Basin are conducted through Panterra in which St. Mary holds a 74% general partnership interest. The managing partner of Panterra is Nance Petroleum Corporation, the principal of which has over 25 years of experience in the Williston Basin.
Acquisitions
The Company's strategy is to make selective niche acquisitions of oil and gas properties within its core operating areas in the United States. The Company seeks to acquire properties which complement its existing operations, offer economies of scale and provide further development and exploration opportunities based on proprietary geologic concepts or advanced well completion techniques. Management believes that the Company's success in acquiring attractively-priced and under-exploited properties has resulted from its focus on smaller, negotiated transactions where the Company has specialized geologic knowledge or operating experience.
Although the Company periodically evaluates large acquisition packages offered in competitive bid or auction formats, the Company has continued to emphasize acquisitions having values of less than $10 million which generally attract less competition and where the Company's technical expertise, financial flexibility and structuring experience affords a competitive advantage. The Company seeks acquisitions that offer additional development and exploration opportunities such as its series of acquisitions in the Box Church Field of east Texas during 1995 and 1996. During each of the three years ending December 31, 1996, the Company engaged in a number of acquisition transactions. During 1994, the Company completed four acquisitions totaling $12.4 million. During 1995 and 1996, the Company purchased six parcels for $8.1 million and eleven parcels for $20.9 million, respectively. The Company has budgeted $15.0 million in 1997 for property acquisitions.
Reserves
At December 31, 1996, Ryder Scott, independent petroleum engineers, evaluated properties representing approximately 81.5% of PV-10 Value and the Company evaluated the remainder. The PV-10 Values shown in the following table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated net proved oil and gas reserves owned by the Company. Neither prices nor costs have been escalated, but prices include the effects of hedging contracts.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, as prepared by Ryder Scott and by the Company.
As of December 31, ------------------ 1996 1995 1994 ---- ---- ---- Reserve Data: (1) Oil (MBbls)........................ 10,691 7,509 6,667 Gas (MMcf)......................... 127,057 75,705 62,515 MBOE............................... 31,867 20,127 17,096 PV-10 value (in thousands)......... $296,461 $120,192 $84,688 Proved developed reserves.......... 84% 89% 93% Production replacement............. 422% 203% 207% Reserve life (years)............... 8.4 6.5 5.6
- ----------- (1) Reserve data attributable to the Company's Russian joint venture have been excluded from this table. Effective February 12, 1997, the Company sold its Russian joint venture. See "International Operations."
Production
The following table summarizes the average net daily volumes of oil and gas produced from properties in which the Company held an interest during the periods indicated.
Year Ended December 31, ----------------------- 1996 1995 1994 ---- ---- ---- Operating Data: (1) Net production: Oil (MBbls).............................. 1,186 1,044 937 Gas (MMcf)............................... 15,563 12,434 12,577 MBOE..................................... 3,780 3,116 3,033 Average net daily production: Oil (Bbls)............................... 3,240 2,852 2,567 Gas (Mcf)................................ 42,522 33,973 34,458 BOE...................................... 10,327 8,514 8,310 Average sales price: (2) Oil (per Bbl)............................ $18.64 $16.37 $14.95 Gas (per Mcf)............................ $ 2.23 $1.56 $1.93 Additional per BOE data: Lease operating expense.................. $2.28 $2.49 $2.54 Production taxes......................... $1.13 $0.93 $0.92
- ----------- (1) Excludes operating data attributable to the Company's Russian joint venture. (2) Includes the effects of the Company's hedging activities. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Overview."
The Company uses financial hedging instruments, primarily fixed-for-floating price swap agreements with financial counterparties, to manage its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. The Company also employs limited use of exchange-listed financial futures and options as part of its hedging program for crude oil.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information regarding the number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest at December 31, 1996. Productive wells are either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production although currently shut in. One or more completions in the same bore hole are counted as one well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a gas well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
Domestic International Total --------------- ------------- --------------- Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net ----- --- ----- --- ----- ---
Oil 529 136 34 6 563 142 Gas 884 105 - - 884 105 ----- --- --- -- ----- --- Total 1,413 241 34 6 1,447 247 ===== === === == ===== ===
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the wells in which the Company participated during each of the three years indicated.
All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
Domestic and International Acreage
The following table sets forth the gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped domestic oil and gas leases, fee properties, mineral servitudes and lease options held by the Company as of December 31, 1996. Undeveloped acreage includes leasehold interests which may already have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves.
Non-Oil and Gas Activities
Summo Minerals. Through December 31, 1996, St. Mary Minerals Inc. ("St. Mary Minerals"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has invested a total of approximately $5.6 million and has acquired a total of 9,644,093 common shares of Summo Minerals Corporation ("Summo Minerals") representing 49% of the issued and outstanding common shares and 6,261,000 warrants to purchase common shares, exercisable at prices between Cdn $1.10 and Cdn $1.21 and which expire between October 17, 1997 and October 17, 1998. Summo Minerals is a development-stage, publicly-traded Canadian based mining company engaged in the development of medium-sized copper deposits in the United States and its common shares are listed on the Toronto and the Vancouver stock exchanges under the symbol "SMA". The Company's investment in Summo Minerals had a market value of $8.4 million at December 31, 1996.
Summo Minerals' recent activities have focused on the development of its Lisbon Valley property comprised of approximately 5,940 acres of unpatented mining claims and mineral leases located approximately 45 miles southeast of Moab, Utah in San Juan County. Summo Minerals is in the development stage and plans to raise funds to commence operations through debt and equity financings in 1997. The Company currently expects to invest no more than $2.0 million in 1997 in Summo Minerals. It is possible that the Company may elect to exercise some or all of its warrants in order to ultimately realize the amount of any appreciation in the value of the warrants. The Company currently intends to exercise such warrants if the common share price is substantially in excess of the warrant price. The total cash payment in connection with such exercise would be approximately $3.1 million. There can be no assurance that the Company will realize a return on its investment in Summo Minerals.
Competition
Competition in the oil and gas business is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties, proved undeveloped acreage and leases. Major and independent oil and gas companies actively bid for desirable oil and gas properties and for the equipment and labor required for their operation and development. The Company believes that the locations of its leasehold acreage, its exploration, drilling and production capabilities and the experience of its management and that of its industry partners generally enable the Company to compete effectively. Many of the Company's competitors, however, have financial resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than those of the Company, and these may adversely affect the Company's ability to compete, particularly in regions outside of the Company's principal producing areas. Because of this competition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in finding and acquiring producing properties and development and exploration prospects at its planned capital funding levels.
Markets and Major Customers
Substantially all of the Company's oil and gas production is sold on the spot market. During 1996, sales to an individual customer constituted 17.3% of total revenues. There were no oil and gas customers of the Company that represented more than 10% of its oil and gas revenues in 1995 or 1994.
Government Regulations
The Company's business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations which may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, taxation and environmental protection. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas.
The Company's operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance coverage for its operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but does not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the Company does not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of its properties in the event of certain environmental damages. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, could have a material adverse impact on the Company.
The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been introduced in Congress that would reclassify certain exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were enacted, it could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on the Company.
Title to Properties
Substantially all of the Company's domestic working interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. A title opinion is usually obtained prior to the commencement of drilling operations on properties. The Company has obtained title opinions or conducted a thorough title review on substantially all of its producing properties and believes that it has satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. The Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of the Company's oil and gas properties are and will continue to be mortgaged to secure borrowings under the Company's credit facilities. The Company performs only a minimal title investigation before acquiring undeveloped properties.
The Company relies upon sovereign ownership of rights granted under license or concession agreements by foreign governments and conducts no independent title investigation. Concession negotiations generally are undertaken through local legal counsel to ensure compliance with local laws. In the event the Company acquires previously granted rights to explore for, develop or produce oil or gas in a foreign country, it generally relies on local legal counsel for the title work.
Operational Hazards and Insurance
The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company and operators of properties in which it has an interest maintain insurance against some, but not all, potential risks; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover any losses or exposure for liability. The occurrence of a significant unfavorable event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost or at all.
Employees and Office Space
As of December 31, 1996, the Company had 96 full-time employees. None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company leases approximately 34,500 square feet of office space in Denver, Colorado, for its executive offices, of which 7,200 square feet is subleased, approximately 12,200 square feet of office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma, approximately 7,300 square feet of office space in Shreveport, Louisiana and approximately 500 square feet in Lafayette, Louisiana. The Company believes that its current facilities are adequate.
Glossary
The terms defined in this section are used throughout this Form 10-K.
2-D seismic or 2-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a two-dimensional cross section of the subsurface.
3-D seismic or 3-D data. Seismic data that are acquired and processed to yield a three-dimensional picture of the subsurface.
Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
Bcf. Billion cubic feet, used herein in reference to natural gas.
Behind pipe reserves. Estimated net proved reserves in a formation in which production casing has already been set in the wellbore but has not been perforated and production tested.
BOE. Barrels of oil equivalent. Oil equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas (including gas liquids) to one Bbl of oil.
Development well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
Dry hole. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Estimated net proved reserves. The estimated quantities of oil, gas and gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
Exploratory well. A well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
Fee land. The most extensive interest which can be owned in land, including surface and mineral (including oil and gas) rights.
Finding Cost. Expressed in dollars per BOE, Finding Costs are calculated by dividing the amount of total capital expenditures for oil and gas activities by the amount of estimated net proved reserves added during the same period (including the effect on proved reserves of reserve revisions).
Gross acres. An acre in which a working interest is owned.
Gross well. A well in which a working interest is owned.
MBbl. One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MMBbl. One million barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
MBOE. One thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
MMBOE. One million barrels of oil equivalent.
Mcf. One thousand cubic feet.
MMcf. One million cubic feet.
MMBtu. One million British Thermal Units. A British Thermal Unit is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water one degree Fahrenheit.
Net acres or net wells. The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
PV-10 Value. The present value of estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of estimated net proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date indicated (unless such prices or costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expenses or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%.
Productive well. A well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production.
Proved developed reserves. Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped reserves. Reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Recompletion. The completion for production of an existing wellbore in another formation from that in which the well has previously been completed.
Reserve Life. Reserve Life, expressed in years, represents the estimated net proved reserves at a specified date divided by actual production for the trailing 12-month period.
Royalty. That interest paid to the owner of mineral rights expressed as a percentage of gross income from oil and gas produced and sold unencumbered by expenses.
Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and gas production free of costs of exploration, development and production. Royalty interests are approximate and are subject to adjustment.
Undeveloped acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated net proved reserves.
Working interest. The operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and to share in the production.
ITEM 3.