Item 2. It is anticipated that such obligations will be satisfied, in whole or in part, from (i) a portion of any profits realized by Transre and E&S under the Limited Agency Agreement, (ii) the override commission paid to TCO Holdings in connection with the Quota Share Arrangement, and (iii) Exstar Common Stock owned by TCO. Mr. O'Shaughnessy may have contingent liability with respect to certain of these TCO obligations, and, consequently, may benefit from their satisfaction. Other assets and cash flows of TCO will be used to repay debts owed by TCO to the Company. Such assets and cash flows may include furniture, fixtures and systems of TCO (independently appraised at approximately $2.4 million), profits of Transre and E&S under the Limited Agency Agreement (see "-- Relationship with UCIC"), amounts paid to the Company by Claims Control (see "-- Expense Reductions/Reallocations and Staffing Changes"), and potential recoveries by TCO from third parties.
Although TCO is not a direct or indirect subsidiary of Exstar, its income or loss is included in the Company's consolidated GAAP financial statements in accordance with a form of equity accounting. The Company's adoption of this form of accounting in 1995 (applied retroactively) was based on the historical interdependence and common control of the Company and TCO, including the Company's exertion of significant influence over the operations of TCO, TCO's limited financial resources and TCO's need for financial support from the Company. In accordance with this form of equity accounting, the Company's GAAP net income and stockholders' equity are directly affected by certain changes in TCO's income and stockholder's equity (i.e., certain losses and gains of TCO reduce and increase, respectively, the Company's GAAP net income and stockholders' equity). With respect to the Company's historical GAAP financial statements, the effect of the adoption of this accounting treatment was to reduce the Company's total stockholders' equity and net income from that reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). For 1992, the effect of this accounting treatment, as a result of TCO's losses, was to reduce stockholders' equity and net income by $2.5 million. For 1993, the effect of this accounting treatment, as a result of TCO's losses, was to reduce stockholders' equity and net income by an additional $11.6 million. For 1994, the effect of this accounting treatment, as a result of TCO's losses, was to further reduce the Company's total stockholders' equity and net income by $7.1 million. In 1995 and 1996 TCO was profitable, such that this treatment served to increase the Company's total stockholders' equity and net income by $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 1996, the cumulative effect of this accounting treatment was to reduce the Company's total stockholders' equity by $18.4 million. Under this accounting method, if TCO were to generate income in the future up to a certain threshold amount (currently approximately $3 million), the Company's GAAP income and stockholders' equity would increase by the amount of such income recognized by TCO even without any repayments of amounts owed by TCO to the Company. Conversely, unless the cumulative amount of TCO's losses since July 1, 1992 falls below the cumulative amount of TCO's indebtedness to the Company incurred since July 1, 1992, any repayments of debt by TCO to the Company generally would not increase the Company's GAAP net income or stockholders' equity. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Because the Company and TCO are affiliated through common controlling ownership by Mr. O'Shaughnessy, the transactions and relationships between the Company and TCO and the Company and
Mr. O'Shaughnessy present certain conflicts of interest. Notwithstanding these potential conflicts of interest, management believes that the actions and inactions of the Company, while they have in some cases benefitted TCO and Mr. O'Shaughnessy, have been, when taken as a whole, in the best interests of the Company.
Combination of the Syndicate with Alpine. In late 1996, in view of a perceived decrease in the benefits associated with IIE membership and in an effort to reduce the costs involved in the operation of two separate insurance entities, management determined that it was in the best interests of the Company to cause the Syndicate to withdraw as a syndicate member of the IIE and to merge its operations with its wholly-owned subsidiary, Alpine. Accordingly, effective December 31, 1996, the Syndicate withdrew as a syndicate member of the IIE, transferred all of its assets (other than the stock of Alpine) and liabilities to Alpine and changed its name to Alpine Holdings, Inc. Pursuant to an agreement with the IIE, certain of the Syndicate's assets transferred to Alpine were placed in trust as security for the payment of claims of policyholders and other obligations of the Syndicate. The agreement also provides for continuing IIE Guaranty Fund protection with regard to policyholders of the Syndicate. As a result of this change, Alpine is the Company's only licensed insurer and its only significant operating entity. Alpine Holdings, Inc. conducts no activities other than serving as a direct holding company for the stock of Alpine. The following chart depicts the Company's current organizational structure:
Exstar Financial Corporation | | 100% | Alpine Holdings, Inc. | | 100% | Alpine Insurance Company | | 100% | ------------------------ | | | | Transco Premium Alpine Premium Finance Co., Inc. Finance Co., Inc.
Expense Reductions/Reallocations and Staffing Changes. Prior to January 1995, the Company had no compensated employees; employees of TCO performed all underwriting, claims and other services for the Company pursuant to management agreements between the Company and TCO. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with TCO." Effective January 1, 1995, certain officers of TCO and Alpine, and certain individuals providing administrative and support services to such officers, became fully or partially compensated employees of Exstar. The salary, benefit costs and other expenses borne by the Company in connection with this arrangement were approximately $2.1 million in 1995. Following the downgrading of the Company's Best ratings in 1996, the Company and TCO significantly reduced their staff and expenses, and most of the remaining employees of TCO (other than Claims Control employees) became employees of Alpine. Consequently, the Company
became directly responsible for the payment of all salaries and benefits related to such employees. The claims handling staff, however, became employees of Claims Control, a TCO Holdings subsidiary, on January 1, 1996. Claims Control is reimbursed by Alpine for the salary and benefit costs related to such employees, and Claims Control's general and administrative expenses, in consideration of Claims Control's continued handling of claims under policies previously issued by the Company. In addition, Claims Control currently pays over to Alpine amounts paid to Claims Control by UCIC for handling UCIC claims. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with UCIC."
At January 1, 1996, the Company and TCO, together, had 134 employees and total annualized payroll of approximately $7 million. At August 1, 1996, 85 employees remained (almost all of whom, other than the Claims Control employees, had become employees of the Company). The pay levels of many of the remaining employees (principally members of senior and middle management) were reduced. As a result, total annualized payroll at August 1, 1996 (before reimbursement from Transre and E&S) was approximately $4.5 million. Other general and administrative expenses also were reduced substantially from prior levels. General and administrative expenses following the reductions totaled approximately $5 million annualized. Because of cost reductions and other circumstances, individuals no longer employed by the Company include Exstar's former Chief Financial Officer and its Chief Accounting Officer, four senior underwriters, the three most senior members of the Company's management information services department, the former head of the Company's claims department and the former President of Alpine. As a result of these departures, the Company's overall level of management experience has significantly decreased. Depending on the Company's financial condition and prospects, management expects the Company will need to hire additional personnel during 1997, assuming the Quota Share Arrangement remains in place, to support the Company's operations.
During 1996, to assist the Company in retaining sufficient staffing and to offset, in part, salary reductions instituted in 1996, Alpine sought approval from the Illinois DOI to pay bonuses to its employees. The Illinois DOI tentatively approved payment of the bonuses, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $400,000 payable by Alpine, but conditioned payment upon satisfaction of certain preconditions, including the implementation of the Quota Share Arrangement (provided that it remained in effect for a period of time satisfactory to the Illinois DOI). The Company expects ultimately to pay some or all of the bonus amount during 1997, but management has not determined what amounts to pay or at what time payments will be made, and any such determination remains subject to final approval of the Illinois DOI.
In addition to performing services directly for the Company, the majority of the Company's employees are performing services for Transre and E&S in connection with the Limited Agency Agreement. In this regard, and in accordance with a plan filed by Alpine with and approved by the Illinois DOI in connection with its review of Alpine (see "-- Regulation -- Illinois Order"), the salaries and benefit costs associated with these employees, as well as general and administrative costs (including rent, utilities, insurance costs and licensing fees), are currently being allocated among Alpine, Transre and E&S. The total amount reimbursed by Transre and E&S to the Company during 1996 (covering the period from the beginning of the allocation on August 1, 1996 through December 31, 1996) was approximately $1.2 million. The amount payable by Claims Control to the Company for 1996 with respect to revenues received from UCIC was approximately $4,000. The allocations are based on management's estimates of the relative amounts of employee time and Company resources devoted to the operations. For example, the majority of the Company's salary expense relating to its underwriting department has been allocated to Transre and E&S, because the underwriting department's principal activities involve producing new business for UCIC, while the underwriting department's activities with respect to the Company's prior business are limited. Conversely, salaries for management, accounting, administration and other departments are allocated as much as 80% to Alpine.
The plan approved by the Illinois DOI anticipates that the allocations to Alpine will gradually decrease, and the allocations to Transre and E&S will gradually increase, over time, but no assurances can be given that such allocations will occur at any particular time, if at all. As circumstances change, revised allocations are expected to be implemented, subject to approval by the Illinois DOI.
LINES OF BUSINESS
The Company ceased issuing direct insurance in August 1996, and is not currently issuing any insurance policies directly to insureds. Its current business activities consist of: acting as a reinsurer (effective as of April 1, 1997) with respect to insurance policies issued by UCIC; handling claims under policies and reinsurance contracts previously issued by the Company and implementing mid-term adjustments to and cancellations of such policies; and related management, investment, reporting and accounting functions. In lieu of issuing direct insurance business, effective as of April 1, 1997, Alpine entered into the Quota Share Arrangement with UCIC. Pursuant to the Quota Share Arrangement, the Company assumes a portion of the business placed with UCIC by Transre and E&S. Although such business currently is within the lines of business from which the Company has historically derived premium revenue, the Company is exploring the possibility of expanding its reinsurance relationship with UCIC to include other niche lines of business produced through Transre and E&S. The business produced through Transre and E&S and reinsured by the Company under the Quota Share Arrangement is currently being written on more restrictive policy forms, and with higher pricing, than the business previously written directly by the Company, which management expects will improve the Company's loss ratio. See "-- Operating Ratios."
The Company has historically operated in a single industry segment, property and casualty insurance, and within this segment it concentrated on a limited number of lines of business. During 1996 and 1995, most of the Company's premium volume was derived from the direct writing of specialized liability coverages, consisting principally of products liability coverages and general liability coverages for contractors, ocean marine coverages, and architects and engineers coverages. A small additional source of premium volume was reinsurance assumed through a reinsurance underwriting manager which is a subsidiary of TCO Holdings. The following table sets forth the sources of the Company's premium for the years presented:
Specialized Liability. Specialized liability business accounted for $13.1 million or 91.2%, and $53.5 million or 83.1%, of the Company's gross written premium for 1996 and 1995, respectively. General liability insurance for contractors accounted for approximately 67.9% and 60.9% of the Company's specialized liability gross written premium in 1996 and 1995, respectively. Insureds in this
group included general contractors and several specialized classifications of contractors. Products liability insureds consisted generally of manufacturers, dealers/distributors and, to a lesser degree, others engaged in a wide variety of businesses including machinery and equipment, auto/vehicle products and sporting goods. Other specialized liability business written by the Company in 1996 and 1995 included employers liability, premises liability (O,L&T) for apartments, restaurants and property owners, and some small niche programs.
Most of the Company's specialized liability insurance was written on a direct basis on an occurrence form (approximately 94% and 92% of all specialized liability premium in 1996 and 1995, respectively) or a claims-made form (approximately 6% and 8% of all specialized liability premium in 1996 and 1995, respectively). The Company's specialized liability policies excluded liability for pollution and punitive damages, had aggregate limits and paid expenses in addition to policy limits.
Ocean Marine. Ocean marine business accounted for $764,000 or 5.3%, and $7.4 million or 11.5%, of the Company's gross written premium in 1996 and 1995, respectively. Typical insureds included tugs, barges, crew boats, builder risks and yachts. Both hull and protection and indemnity coverages were provided, as was cargo coverage in some instances. The average policy had a premium of approximately $33,000 and an average deductible of $10,000.
Architects and Engineers Professional Liability. The Company's architects and engineers professional liability business accounted for approximately $307,000 or 2.1%, and $2.4 million or 3.8%, of the Company's gross written premium in 1996 and 1995, respectively. The Company's principal classifications of insureds were architects, civil engineers, HVAC/mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, interior designers and land surveyors.
The Company's typical architects and engineers insured was an architectural firm with annual billings of approximately $301,000 not engaged in structural or project design work. The average policy had a premium of approximately $8,100, an average coverage limit of approximately $514,000 and an average deductible of approximately $8,300.
The architects and engineers insurance was written on a claims-made policy form pursuant to which claims had to be made to the Company within the time frame permitted by the policy (generally within the policy period, or any extended discovery period). Policies had aggregate limits, included expenses within policy limits and provided extended discovery periods where required by state insurance laws.
Other. The Company has also written other coverages from time to time, including premises liability and other classifications.
INVESTMENTS
The Company's investments generally consist of those investments permitted by the Illinois Insurance Code. Pursuant to an agreement entered into by the Company in May 1996, Asset Allocation & Management Company, L.L.C. has been granted investment advisory responsibility over most of the Company's liquid invested assets.
The table below shows the classifications of the Company's investments at December 31, 1996:
Certain assets shown in the table above are held in trust as security for the payment of claims of policyholders and other obligations of the Syndicate. See "-- Regulation -- Combination of the Syndicate with Alpine."
The fixed maturity assets have an average duration of approximately 3.7 years and an average maturity of approximately 4.4 years. The fixed maturities subject to call at December 31, 1996 had a market value and carrying value of $5.4 million.
Mortgage Loans. The Company's assets at December 31, 1996, included 16 mortgage loans with a total principal balance outstanding of approximately $5.3 million. The book value of these loans, net of a $188,000 reserve against losses and $33,000 of deferred loan origination fees, was $5.1 million. The reserve against losses for mortgage loans is calculated as the difference between the mortgage loan including accrued interest and the appraised value of the property securing the loan.
Of the total portfolio at December 31, 1996, $900,000 or 17.5%, consisted of six single-family residential construction and permanent loans, $3.9 million consisted of nine commercial loans, and $300,000 consisted of one residential tract development loan. The largest of the loans was $1.0 million, the smallest loan was $37,000 and the average loan was approximately $323,000.
The Company is no longer making or purchasing mortgage loans, except to facilitate sales of real estate owned or in connection with loan workouts.
Real Estate Owned. The Company had real estate investments totaling $11.1 million at December 31, 1996. These values were net of a reserve for losses of $1.7 million. The reserve against
losses for real estate owned is calculated as the difference between the book value of the real estate owned and the fair value of the real estate owned. The properties have combined fair values ("fair value" generally is the appraised value, less expected costs of sale) of approximately $13.1 million as of December 31, 1996 based on appraisals conducted during the fourth quarter of 1996. The Company is attempting to liquidate, in an orderly fashion, its owned real estate portfolio and has no intention of acquiring or holding real estate, other than possibly the office buildings described below, in the future.
Among the Company's properties are two commercial office buildings located in Solvang, California, which serve as headquarters for the Company and which were formerly leased to TCO. The buildings had a combined book value of $4.3 million and a combined fair value of $5.7 million at December 31, 1996. The TCO lease was terminated during 1996 after TCO-IL's revenues dropped and its employees transferred to the Company. The total rent paid by TCO under the lease was $228,000 in 1996, $584,000 in 1995 and $577,000 in 1994. The Company currently leases 6,000 square feet of space in one of these buildings to the YMCA at an annual rent of approximately $54,000 (subject to adjustment) under a two-year lease, with three one-year renewal options. Except for amounts it receives under the YMCA lease, the Company is currently bearing all costs associated with the properties (subject to the cost allocation with Transre and E&S as described under "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure" and "-- Expense Reductions/Reallocations and Staffing Changes"). The Company from time to time solicits offers to purchase these buildings, but no such offers on terms acceptable to the Company have been received. See "Properties" -- Item 2.
An additional $800,000 of the $11.1 million total investment in real estate pertains to interests in a real estate development engaged in developing a 120-lot residential project in Bakersfield, California. There were 25 lots remaining with a fair value of $1.0 million as of December 31, 1996.
The Company owns three commercial medical condominium units located in Solvang, California. As of December 31, 1996, the book value of these units was $783,000, compared to a $765,000 fair value as of that date.
The Company also owns property acquired for residential development in 1990. The 50-acre tract located in Solvang, California, consists of nine parcels. Homes have been built on two of the parcels and during 1993 one of the homes and two of the parcels were sold. During 1994, one of the parcels was sold and during 1995 the other home was sold. The book value and fair value of the remaining four parcels were $1.1 million at December 31, 1996.
The Company's remaining owned real estate consists of two properties acquired in liquidation of secured real estate loans and held for sale; two purchased residential properties (one of which was acquired from Peter O'Shaughnessy) located in the Santa Ynez Valley, California, held for sale; and one 23 acre parcel and one 25 acre parcel which were acquired from Mr. O'Shaughnessy, held for sale. These properties had a combined book value at December 31, 1996 of $4.2 million and a combined fair value of $4.4 million as of that date. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" -- Item 13.
JBW & Co. Loan. In December 1989, the Syndicate made an investment in the preferred stock of Concord General Corporation, a privately held insurance holding company ("Concord"). The preferred stock had an 11.3% dividend rate and a stated value of $10,000 per share. Subsequent to December 31, 1993, Exstar entered into an agreement to facilitate the restructuring of Concord, and thereby to enhance the value of certain of the Company's rights with respect to its investment, by an exchange of the Syndicate's Concord preferred stock for preferred stock in JBW & Co., Inc. ("JBW & Co."), a Concord affiliate, effective as of December 31, 1993. The JBW & Co. preferred stock acquired by the Syndicate had the same stated value, terms and dividends as the Concord preferred stock. The
preferred stock was convertible by the holder into secured debt of JBW upon the occurrence of specified events.
In August 1995, the Company exercised its right to convert the JBW & Co. preferred stock to a promissory note. As a result, the Company currently holds a collateralized loan receivable in the principal amount of $12.3 million due from JBW & Co. ("JBW & Co. Loan"). The principal amount under the JBW & Co. Loan bears interest at a simple annual rate of 7% per year. The principal and interest are due in quarterly installments commencing March 31, 1997, and ending December 31, 2004. Management believes, based on discussions with representatives of JBW & Co., that JBW & Co. is insolvent and incapable of meeting its obligations, including payments on the JBW & Co. Loan.
The JBW & Co. Loan is collateralized by a pledge by Concord of 81% of the outstanding capital stock of Classic Fire and Marine Insurance Company ("Classic"), an Indiana insurance company affiliated with JBW & Co. and Concord. Classic is currently under supervision by the Indiana Department of Insurance. Although Classic reported policyholders' surplus of $12.2 million at December 31, 1996, management believes that Classic's value is highly uncertain, given that its most recent financial statements have not been audited and include assets and liabilities the values of which are not readily determinable, including among other things the preferred stock of TCO Holdings, discussed below.
Simultaneously with the Syndicate's original investment in Concord, Concord made a similar investment in preferred stock of a predecessor of Exstar. Such preferred stock was later converted into preferred stock of TCO Holdings, which preferred stock was to have been convertible, upon the occurrence of specified events, into debt of TCO Holdings. The aggregate stated value of the TCO Holdings preferred stock was approximately $10.8 million at December 31, 1996. Management believes the TCO Holdings preferred stock is currently held in a reinsurance trust between Geneva Assurance Syndicate ("Geneva"), a former IIE syndicate in liquidation, and Classic, and that the TCO Holdings preferred stock may comprise a substantial portion of Classic's estimated value. Demand has been made for conversion of the TCO Holdings preferred stock into debt of TCO Holdings, but the stock has not been converted and neither Geneva nor Classic has taken further action to cause its conversion (other than in connection with the overall settlement discussions described below). If the preferred stock were converted, Peter O'Shaughnessy and TCO Holdings could be required to pledge assets to secure repayment of the debt, including Exstar Common Stock held by Mr. O'Shaughnessy and TCO Holdings.
In view of the uncertainty surrounding the Company's ability to realize value with respect to the JBW & Co. Loan (and the collateral pledged to secure it), the Company has entered into negotiations with JBW & Co. and various insurance regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the parties and has reached a tentative overall settlement of issues surrounding the JBW & Co. Loan and the TCO Holdings preferred stock. As currently contemplated, the settlement would involve a transfer to the Company of a mortgage note in the principal amount of approximately $2 million (or proceeds thereof) in full satisfaction of the JBW & Co. Loan. The mortgage note would be secured by real estate with an appraised value at September 1, 1996 of $9.0 million.
Concurrently with the foregoing transaction, TCO Holdings would convert the TCO Holdings preferred stock into a TCO Holdings promissory note in the principal amount of $2.5 million, with four percent annual interest on the principal balance outstanding, payable from commissions received by TCO Holdings in connection with the Quota Share Arrangement. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure." A letter of intent with respect to the foregoing settlement has been entered into by the parties. The settlement, however, is contingent upon the execution of formal agreements by the parties and final approval of the agreements by the applicable insurance regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that such approval will be obtained or that the settlement will be consummated as currently contemplated.
The financial impact of the proposed settlement on the Company's GAAP financial statements will depend on the precise terms and conditions of the settlement, and consequently has not been determined. The settlement, as currently contemplated, is expected to increase Alpine's policyholders' surplus by approximately $2 million.
Loan to TCO. In December 1993, the Company entered into a formal loan agreement to loan TCO-IL up to $9.0 million to support TCO-IL's operations ("Loan Agreement"). The Loan Agreement requires payment of interest at the prime rate plus two percent, monthly in arrears. Principal is to be paid quarterly, if necessary, such that the maximum principal balance outstanding would not have exceeded $8,550,000 on January 1, 1995, and the maximum principal balance outstanding would thereafter decline by $450,000 increments on the first day of each subsequent calendar quarter. Repayment of the remaining principal balance currently is secured by TCO-IL's pledge of 160,000 of the 536,000 shares of Exstar Common Stock owned by it. TCO-IL had previously pledged a total of 500,000 shares of Exstar Common Stock owned by it to secure its obligations under the Loan Agreement. The number of shares pledged was reduced by agreement of the parties based on TCO-IL's prior satisfaction of payment obligations under the Loan Agreement.
In February 1995, in connection with Exstar's decision to commence full or partial compensation of certain TCO and Alpine employees who also are Exstar employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, the President, and the former Chief Financial Officer, the Company and TCO entered into an amendment to the Loan Agreement (i) creating a voting trust with respect to the common stock of TCO-IL and its affiliate, TCO Insurance Services ("TCO-CA"), with the outside director(s) of Exstar having the right to vote such shares in the event TCO-IL fails to make any two consecutive payments due under the Loan Agreement, and (ii) requiring TCO-IL to provide certain salary expense and transaction reports relating to TCO to the Company to assist the Company in monitoring TCO's financial condition.
Payments by TCO were current through December 31, 1996, leaving a principal balance of $4.6 million of which $2.2 million was payable to Exstar and $2.4 million was payable to Alpine. The Company believes that TCO may not currently or in the foreseeable future have the ability to repay all of this indebtedness, and does not believe that the collateral securing the indebtedness would satisfy the indebtedness, given the current value of the Exstar Common Stock. Accordingly, in an effort to help resolve financial issues between the Company and TCO and to provide the Company assets of value to the Company's continuing operations, Exstar is considering accepting from TCO, with respect to the $2.2 million of TCO debt owed to it, a transfer to the Company of certain computer systems, furniture, fixtures, properties and rights of TCO. The systems, furniture and fixtures which may be transferred constitute virtually all of TCO's systems, furniture and fixtures, have a current book value of approximately $200,000 and were independently appraised in October 1996 at a total value of approximately $2.4 million. Pursuant to its rights under the Master Agreement with TCO, Exstar currently has a license to use the systems that would be transferred to it by TCO. If the exchange is approved by the Board of Directors (Exstar currently has only one independent director), it is currently contemplated that it would become effective as of January 1, 1997. No resolution has been reached with respect to the $2.4 million of debt owed by TCO to Alpine, but a transfer of certain contingent assets of TCO (including a potential receivable from an unaffiliated insurance company and certain real property rights) in full or partial satisfaction of such debt is under consideration by the parties. Any offset or reduction of the TCO debt to Alpine would require the prior approval of the Illinois DOI.
In accordance with the equity accounting treatment retroactively adopted by the Company in early 1995, TCO-IL's repayment obligations to the Company are generally not carried as assets of the Company in its GAAP consolidated financial statements. TCO's payment of the $2.2 million debt to Exstar through the transfer of assets would have no impact on the Company's GAAP net income or stockholders' equity. Neither the note receivable nor any other amount owed by TCO to Alpine is
reflected as an admitted asset of Alpine in its statutory financial statements. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Fixed Maturity Investments. The table below sets forth the composition of the Company's portfolio of fixed maturity investments by rating at December 31, 1996.
- ------------------ * Ratings are assigned primarily by Standard & Poor's with remaining ratings assigned by Moody's and converted to the equivalent Standard & Poor's ratings.
Investment Results. Investment results of the Company for each year in the three years ended December 31, 1996, are shown in the following table.
- ------------------ (1) Total invested assets on an annual average basis. (2) Calculated on an annualized basis.
IRS AUDIT
In July 1995, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") commenced an audit of the Company's 1992 Federal corporate income tax return. In connection with this audit, the IRS reviewed a number of documents concerning the Company, including certain information relating to the restructuring of the Company's predecessor holding company system in 1992, which was reported as a tax-free reorganization of such holding company system. The audit has been completed and the Company believes no material liability will be asserted against the Company. In addition, the IRS has commenced an audit of Peter O'Shaughnessy's 1992 Federal income tax return. The results of this audit may have material adverse consequences on Mr. O'Shaughnessy's financial condition and, among other things, could result in his selling a significant portion of his Exstar Common Stock or his pledging of a significant portion of such stock to secure a loan or loans.
UNDERWRITING AND PRICING/MARKETING AND PRODUCTION
The Company ceased issuing direct insurance in August 1996, and is not currently issuing any insurance policies directly to insureds. Its business activities currently consist of: acting as a reinsurer (effective as of April 1, 1997) with respect to insurance policies issued by UCIC; handling claims under
policies and reinsurance contracts previously issued by the Company and implementing mid-term adjustments to and cancellations of such policies; and related management, investment, reporting and accounting functions. In lieu of issuing direct insurance business, effective as of April 1, 1997, Alpine entered into the Quota Share Arrangement with UCIC. Pursuant to the Quota Share Arrangement, UCIC cedes to Alpine, and Alpine assumes, a portion of the business placed with UCIC by Transre and E&S. Transre and E&S have entered into the Limited Agency Agreement with UCIC pursuant to which Transre and E&S produce for UCIC business of the type previously produced for the Company by TCO-IL. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with UCIC." The parties are also exploring the possibility of writing certain new coverages.
The Quota Share Arrangement became effective as of April 1, 1997, and applies to all premiums unearned as of such date on policies produced by Transre and E&S for UCIC, and all policies produced by Transre and E&S and placed with UCIC after such date. The continuation of the Quota Share Arrangement is subject to regulatory approval. Management believes that the Quota Share Arrangement will give the Company the opportunity to generate profits from business placed with UCIC and ceded to Alpine.
CLAIMS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Claims Control, a subsidiary of TCO Holdings, is currently providing claims management and administrative services to the Company, in exchange for the reimbursement of certain expenses of Claims Control by Alpine. Historically, such functions were handled primarily by TCO pursuant to the management agreements, which were terminated in 1996. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with TCO."
REINSURANCE
The Company expects to retain all risk assumed by it under the Quota Share Arrangement with UCIC, and, thus, has not renewed its existing reinsurance agreements or entered into new agreements with reinsurers with respect to such risks. The Company continues to have protection, with respect to business previously written, under reinsurance agreements entered into in prior years.
To limit its exposure on large risks and increase capacity, the Company historically entered into certain reinsurance transactions that ceded a portion of risks underwritten to other insurance companies. In the event that any or all of the reinsurers were unable to meet their obligations, the Company would then be liable for such defaulted amounts. All reinsurance payable to the Company is due from Underwriters at Lloyd's, London or companies rated at least A- by Best. At December 31, 1996 the largest single amount recoverable for paid and unpaid losses was $24.4 million from Signet Star Reinsurance Company, an insurer with a Best rating of A and $257.6 million of policyholders' surplus at December 31, 1996.
Although the Company does not write material amounts of business in the property insurance lines, which are lines that tend to be most susceptible to catastrophes, the Company does periodically consider the possibility of its exposure to unusually large or catastrophic events. Management believes the likelihood to be remote that such an event would occur and the Company's reinsurers would fail to meet their obligations with respect to such an event in any material way. With respect to the overall exposure of the Company's reinsurers to catastrophic risk, management monitors the financial condition of such reinsurers generally while relying on rating agencies, including Best, to assess its reinsurers' vulnerabilities to such risk.
Reinsurance for the Company's specialized liability business through December 31, 1996, is provided by six treaties. The first provides coverage for 1991 and 1992 by Signet Star Reinsurance
Company for losses incurred in excess of $1.0 million per insured, per loss up to a maximum of $2.0 million per insured, per loss, plus pro rata loss adjustment expenses. The second provides coverage for 1993, and the third provides coverage from January through September 1994, for losses incurred in excess of $1.0 million per insured, per loss up to a maximum of $2.0 million per insured, per loss, plus pro rata loss adjustment expenses, by Signet Star Reinsurance Company and Security Reinsurance Company. The fourth provides coverage from October 1, 1994, through December 31, 1995, for losses incurred in excess of $500,000 per insured, per loss up to a maximum of $2.0 million per insured, per loss, plus pro rata loss adjustment expenses by Signet Star Reinsurance Company and Security Reinsurance Company. The fifth cedes 50% of the first $500,000 of losses incurred per insured per loss, plus loss adjustment expenses, for losses occurring under (i) policies issued on or after April 1, 1995 and (ii) policies issued prior to April 1, 1995, for the unexpired portion thereof, by Signet Star Reinsurance Company and Reliance Insurance Company. The sixth provides coverage from January through December, 1996, for losses incurred in excess of $500,000 per insured, per loss up to a maximum of $2.0 million per insured, per loss, plus pro rata loss adjustment expenses, by Underwriters Reinsurance Company.
Reinsurance for the Company's architects and engineers professional liability business through 1995 is provided by treaties principally with Underwriters at Lloyd's, London. Treaties effective January 1, 1988, through December 31, 1993 and for 1995, provide coverage for losses incurred, including loss adjustment expenses, in excess of $250,000 per insured, per loss up to a maximum of $2.0 million per insured, per loss. The treaty for 1994 provides coverage for losses incurred, including loss adjustment expenses, in excess of $250,000 per insured, per loss up to a maximum of $1.0 million per insured, per loss. Reinsurance for the Company's architects and engineers business in 1996 is provided under the specialized liability treaty described above with Underwriters Reinsurance Company.
The Company's ocean marine business is reinsured through a series of annual treaties principally provided by Underwriters at Lloyd's, London. The current series of treaties expired February 28, 1997, and provided coverage for losses incurred, including loss adjustment expenses, in excess of $250,000 per insured, per loss, generally up to a maximum of $1.0 million per insured, per loss, up to a maximum aggregate limit of liability (excluding reinstatements) of $10.0 million. The expiring treaties have been extended to July 1997 to provide run off coverage up to a maximum of $2.0 million per insured, per loss. Treaties for prior annual periods provide similar coverages, but with reduced maximum aggregate limits of liability.
The Syndicate and Alpine provided letters of credit which were fully collateralized by cash and cash equivalents, fixed maturities and short-term investments in connection with assumed reinsurance agreements totaling $7,992,000, $8,746,000 and $8,839,000 at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
The following table reflects the effects of reinsurance on the Company's premiums:
Included in the Company's statements of operations as part of policy acquisition costs amortized were ceded commission income of $6,670,000, $11,424,000 and $5,315,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
The following table shows the amount of reinsurance recoverables for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and for paid losses and loss adjustment expenses payable by the Company's reinsurers:
The ceding of liability to a reinsurer does not legally discharge the ceding insurer from its primary liability for the full amount of the policies on which it obtains reinsurance, and the ceding insurer will be required to pay the entire loss if the assuming reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the reinsurance agreement. The Company has never had a significant reinsurance recovery problem, and expects that it will be able to collect the reinsurance receivables due from its reinsurers.
PREMIUM FINANCE OPERATIONS
The Company's premium finance subsidiaries, Alpine Premium Finance Co. ("APF") and Transco Premium Finance Co. ("TPF"), previously provided premium financing with respect to risks underwritten by Alpine, the Syndicate, and other insurers for which TCO provided underwriting or premium collection services. APF is licensed as a premium finance company in Illinois and TPF is licensed in California. Services of the premium finance subsidiaries currently are not being used in connection with the Quota Share Arrangement and it is uncertain whether these services will be utilized by the Company in the future.
OPERATING RATIOS
The following ratios, which are frequently used in evaluating operating performance in the insurance industry, are presented on a statutory and GAAP basis.
Combined ratios. The combined ratio, which reflects underwriting results but not investment income, is a traditional measure of underwriting performance of a property and casualty insurer. A statutory combined ratio of less than 100% generally indicates statutory underwriting profitability (although, as was the case with the Company in 1994, a company may have a combined ratio of less than 100% and still incur a statutory underwriting loss due to the timing of the reporting of commission
expense) while a statutory combined ratio in excess of 100% generally indicates a statutory underwriting loss.
The following table reflects, on a statutory basis, the consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, expense ratios and combined ratios of the Syndicate and Alpine for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, and for the property and casualty insurance industry, and the other liability industry group of the property and casualty industry, for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994.
- ------------------ (1) Source: Best's Aggregates & Averages, Property Casualty (1996 edition). (2) Industry combined ratios include policyholder dividends and, therefore, exceed the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio and the expense ratio. (3) Represents commercial lines of casualty insurance (excluding medical malpractice).
The ratios reflected above with respect to 1996 differ from those that would be calculated on the basis of information in the 1996 annual statement (statutory financial statement) of Alpine filed with state insurance regulatory officials, in that the operating results of the Syndicate were not combined with those of Alpine in Alpine's 1996 annual statement, even though the Syndicate's operations were combined with those of Alpine effective December 31, 1996. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure - -- Combination of the Syndicate with Alpine."
The following table reflects, on a GAAP basis, the consolidated loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, expense ratios and combined ratios of the Syndicate and Alpine for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994.
The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is calculated by dividing incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses (determined on a statutory or GAAP basis, as the case may be) by earned premium (determined on a statutory or GAAP basis). The statutory expense ratio is calculated by dividing net incurred other underwriting expenses by net written premium. The GAAP expense ratio is calculated by
dividing policy acquisition costs amortized by earned premium. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio plus the expense ratio on both statutory and GAAP bases.
During 1996, the Company reduced its reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 1995. See "-- Financial Reporting; Delisting of Common Stock" and "-- Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses." The reduction in the reserves (approximately $14.9 million) took effect in 1995 and reduced the Company's 1995 loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. The Company's 1995 statutory expense ratio was increased by profit sharing expense related to the foregoing reduction in reserves. The cessation of the Company's writing of direct business in 1996 (without a corresponding immediate reduction in expenses) adversely affected the Company's 1996 statutory expense ratio and combined ratio.
IRIS Ratios and Risk Based Capital. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") utilizes eleven Insurance Regulatory Information System ("IRIS") ratios and has developed a risk-based capital formula to assist regulators in evaluating insurer performance and capital adequacy. Alpine failed certain IRIS ratio tests in 1995 and 1996, and its policyholders' surplus fell below a regulatorily prescribed early warning level of risk based capital in 1995 and 1996. See "-- Regulation -- Insurance Regulatory Information System Tests" and "-- Regulation -- Risk Based Capital."
REGULATION
Exstar's insurance company subsidiary, Alpine, is subject to a substantial degree of regulation, which generally is designed to protect the interests of Alpine's policyholders. As an Illinois property and casualty insurance company, Alpine is subject to the primary regulatory oversight of the Illinois DOI.
Illinois Order. Alpine is currently subject to the Illinois Order which limits its and the Company's activities. In May 1996, management approached the Illinois DOI to discuss Alpine's loss reserves, its financial condition, its relationship with TCO and TCO's inability to fully pay Alpine amounts owed. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with TCO." Based on that discussion and issues concerning Alpine's statutory financial statements and its determination of loss reserves (see "-- Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses"), the Illinois DOI commenced an actuarial and financial review of Alpine. In connection with this review, on July 5, 1996, the Illinois DOI issued an order directing: (i) that Alpine, including the owners, officers, directors, and employees of Alpine, shall make no disbursements of any kind, except for properly authorized insurance claim payments, whether by direct cash transaction, loan offset, forgiveness of debts, purchase, payment of compensation, dividends of any kind, or by transfer of securities or assets of any kind, unless prior to such disbursement Alpine has obtained the written approval of the Illinois DOI; (ii) that Alpine shall not enter into or agree to enter into any agreement which commits Alpine to any type of disbursement subject to the foregoing clause (i) without the prior written approval of the Illinois DOI; (iii) that Alpine is prohibited from entering into any transactions with any affiliate as defined under the Illinois Insurance Code without the prior written approval of the Illinois DOI; and (iv) that Alpine shall demand immediate payment to Alpine of all Alpine premiums held by any affiliate. The impact of the Illinois Order has been to subject virtually all of Alpine's and the Company's transactions, organizational relationships and business methods to close scrutiny by, and approval of, the Illinois DOI.
Combination of the Syndicate with Alpine. Effective December 31, 1996, the Syndicate withdrew as a syndicate member of the IIE, and concurrently transferred all of its assets (other than the stock of Alpine) and liabilities to Alpine. Pursuant to an agreement with the IIE, certain of the Syndicate's assets transferred to Alpine were placed in trust as security for the payment of claims of policyholders and other Syndicate obligations, and thus are not readily available for the satisfaction of other Alpine obligations. Alpine is subject to certain ongoing reporting and compliance obligations to the IIE with respect to business formerly conducted by the Syndicate. In addition, $1.0 million of assets of the Syndicate are now held, and will continue to be held for a period of at least three years, by the IIE Guaranty Fund,
Inc., an entity which is intended to provide certain financial protection to policyholders of insolvent IIE syndicates. Such $1.0 million is included as an asset of the Company in its GAAP financial statements, and as an asset of Alpine in its statutory financial statements. Because of syndicate insolvencies which have occurred and may occur in the future, the Company's ability to recover in full such $1.0 million may be uncertain.
Dividend Limitations. Alpine is limited in its ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Alpine is subject to an overall limitation that dividends and other distributions can be declared and paid only to the extent of earned, as opposed to contributed, policyholders' surplus. In addition, Alpine is subject to the provisions of the Illinois Insurance Holding Company Systems Act, which requires prior notice for the payment of all dividends or other distributions, and special approval for those which, during any consecutive 12-month period, exceed the greater of (i) 10% of Alpine's policyholders' surplus as of the immediately preceding year-end or (ii) its statutory net income for the immediately preceding year. In addition to the foregoing limitations, the Illinois Order prohibits Alpine from paying any dividends without the prior approval of the Illinois DOI. Management expects that such approval would be unlikely, if requested, in the foreseeable future.
Holding Company System Regulation. Because of its indirect ownership of Alpine, Exstar is subject to certain provisions of the Illinois Insurance Holding Company Systems Act, which governs any direct or indirect changes in control of Alpine and certain affiliated-party transactions involving Alpine or its assets. No person may acquire, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities or otherwise acquire control of Alpine, Alpine Holdings or Exstar, unless the Illinois DOI has approved such acquisition. The determination of whether to approve any such acquisition is based on a variety of factors, including an evaluation of the acquirer's financial stability, the competence of its management and whether competition in Illinois would be reduced. In addition, certain material transactions involving Alpine and any affiliate must be disclosed to the Illinois DOI not less than 30 days prior to the effective date of the transaction (a transaction can be disapproved by the Illinois DOI within such 30-day period if it does not meet certain standards). Transactions requiring such approval include, but are not limited to, sales, purchases or exchanges of assets, loans and extensions of credit, and investments. Alpine is also required to file periodic and updated statements reflecting the current status of its holding company system, the existence of any related- party transactions and certain financial information relating to any person who directly or indirectly controls (presumed at 10% voting control) Alpine. In addition to the foregoing, the Illinois Order requires approval of the Illinois DOI for most transactions and commitments involving Alpine and its affiliates.
Insurance Guaranty Funds. As an Illinois property and casualty insurance company, Alpine is subject to the provisions of the Illinois Insurance Guaranty Fund Act, which provides for the assessment of member insurance companies based on the amount of direct written premium in Illinois. The amount and timing of such assessments are beyond the control of the Company. Although Alpine is no longer writing direct business, it may be subject to assessments with respect to direct business written in prior years.
National Association of Insurance Commissioners. In addition to state-imposed insurance laws and regulations, Alpine is subject to the general statutory accounting practices and reporting formats established by the NAIC. The NAIC also promulgates model insurance laws and regulations relating to the financial and operational regulation of insurance companies. These rules and regulations generally are not directly applicable to an insurance company until they are adopted by applicable state legislatures and departments of insurance. NAIC model laws and regulations have become increasingly important in recent years, due primarily to the NAIC's Financial Regulatory Standards and Accreditation Program. Under this program, states which have adopted certain required model laws and regulations and meet various staffing and other requirements are "accredited" by the NAIC. Such accreditation is the
cornerstone of an eventual nationwide regulatory network, and there is a certain degree of political pressure on individual states to become accredited by the NAIC. Because the adoption of certain model laws and regulations is a prerequisite to accreditation, the NAIC's initiatives have taken on a greater level of practical importance in recent years. Illinois has been accredited by the NAIC, but the maintenance of its accreditation is contingent upon Illinois' substantial compliance with various NAIC model laws and regulations.
All states have adopted the NAIC's financial reporting form, which is typically referred to as the NAIC "annual statement." In this regard, the NAIC has a substantial degree of practical influence and is able to accomplish certain quasi-legislative initiatives through amendments to the NAIC annual statement and applicable accounting practices and procedures. For instance, the NAIC has required all insurance companies to have an annual statutory financial audit and actuarial certification as to loss and loss adjustment expense reserves by including such requirements within the annual statement instructions.
In reporting in accordance with the NAIC annual statement form, insurers must comply with statutory accounting practices typically described as those practices "prescribed" or "permitted" by the insurance company's domiciliary insurance regulator. With respect to Alpine, "prescribed" statutory accounting practices are those described under Illinois laws and regulations of the Illinois DOI. "Permitted" statutory accounting practices encompass all statutory accounting practices not so prescribed and must be approved by the appropriate regulatory authority. All practices used by the Company are "prescribed."
Insurance Regulatory Information System Tests. The NAIC also has developed IRIS ratios which are designed to provide regulators indications of potential problems of insurance companies. Alpine failed eight of eleven IRIS ratio tests for 1995 based on the initial 1995 statutory financial statements it filed with regulatory authorities (based on which a number of such regulatory authorities took action restricting Alpine's authority to do business - - see "-- Background Concerning Changes in Operations -- Regulatory Restrictions" and "-- Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses"). Alpine amended its 1995 statutory financial statements to reflect the overstatement in its loss reserves of approximately $14.9 million, and, based on the amended statements, it failed four IRIS ratio tests for 1995. Alpine failed only
two IRIS ratio tests for 1996 (as a general rule, an insurer may fail up to three IRIS ratio tests without triggering a higher level of NAIC or regulatory scrutiny).
The following table sets forth the NAIC's expected normal values for the IRIS ratios and Alpine's IRIS ratios for 1996 and 1995 (based on its amended statutory statement).
The two IRIS tests failed in 1996 were Change in Net Writings and Investment Yield. Alpine's Change in Net Writings resulted from a decrease in premiums written because of the Best rating downgrades, regulatory restrictions and management's decision to cease writing direct insurance in August 1996. The Company's insurance company subsidiaries have historically failed the Investment Yield test principally because of their payments to TCO of portions of their investment income pursuant to the management agreements. The four IRIS tests failed in 1995 were Change in Net Writings, Surplus Aid to Surplus, Investment Yield and Change in Surplus. The Change in Net Writings and Surplus Aid to Surplus failures were due to significant increases in ceded written premium in 1995, relating to two reinsurance agreements entered into in 1995 that substantially reduced the Syndicate's and Alpine's net premium. The Change in Surplus failure resulted principally from a reduction in Alpine's policyholders' surplus of $10.6 million from nonadmitting (because their collection was unlikely and they were overdue) $9.4 million of unpaid balances due to Alpine with respect to insurance premiums collected by TCO and an additional $1.2 million of amounts due from affiliates.
Alpine's 1995 IRIS ratio results contributed to the regulatory restrictions imposed on the Company during 1996. Its 1996 IRIS ratio results are not expected to adversely impact Alpine's ability to act as a reinsurer of UCIC in 1997.
Risk Based Capital. The NAIC has adopted a risk based capital formula for property and casualty insurance companies. This formula calculates a minimum level of capital and surplus which should be maintained by each insurer, based on underwriting, credit, investment and other business risks inherent in an individual company's operations. Various states, including Illinois, have adopted the NAIC's risk based capital model act applicable to property/casualty insurers. The model act authorizes certain regulatory actions based on the ratio of a company's "adjusted capital" (generally the insurer's actual policyholders' surplus) to its "authorized control level" risk based capital.
The following table sets forth the different levels of risk based capital that may trigger regulatory involvement and the actions that may be triggered.
The "comprehensive plan" required at the "company action level" and certain other levels must: (i) identify the conditions in the insurer that contribute to the failure to meet the capital requirements; (ii) contain proposed corrective actions that the insurer intends to make and that would be expected to result in compliance with capital requirements; (iii) provide certain projections of the insurer's financial results for the current year and at least the four succeeding years; (iv) identify key assumptions impacting the insurer's projections and the sensitivity of the projections to the assumptions; and (v) identify the quality of, and problems associated with, the insurer's business, including but not limited to its assets, anticipated business growth and associated surplus strain, extraordinary exposure to risk, mix of business, and use of reinsurance in each case.
After adjustment for the overstatement of loss reserves for 1995, Alpine's adjusted capital amounts at December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995 were approximately 173% and 170%, respectively, of its authorized control level risk based capital amounts. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources" -- Item 7. Alpine's state of domicile, Illinois, did not require any action to be taken with respect to Alpine's 1995 risk based capital results, but did require action based on 1996 results. Because Alpine's December 31, 1996 adjusted capital was less than 200% of its authorized control level risk based capital, Alpine was required to submit a comprehensive financial plan to the Illinois DOI. The plan identifies, as the principal condition that contributed to Alpine's failure to meet the company action level of risk based capital, the amount of Alpine's net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expense relative to its policyholders' surplus and contains, as the proposed corrective actions, principally the changes to the Company's operations and organizational structure already implemented and consummation of the Quota Share Arrangement with UCIC. The plan includes projections indicating that, even if the Quota Share Arrangement were not in effect for 1997, Alpine's adjusted capital at December 31, 1997, and thereafter, is expected to exceed 200% of its authorized control level risk based capital. Management anticipates Alpine's comprehensive financial plan ultimately will be accepted by the Illinois DOI, based on discussions with Illinois DOI representatives; however, the Illinois DOI has not yet formally responded to the plan.
State Regulation. A number of states have acted to restrict or eliminate Alpine's ability to issue direct coverage in such states. On June 24, 1996, the California Department of Insurance withdrew Alpine's authorization to conduct insurance business and also denied Alpine's application for a Certificate of Authority to conduct insurance business in California on an admitted basis, citing concerns with respect to Alpine's financial strength and management competency. Historically, California has been Alpine's
largest market and, in 1995, California accounted for approximately 65% of Alpine's direct written premiums. In addition, Alpine lost its authorization to conduct direct business in Idaho, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas and Virginia and had its authority restricted in Florida. As a general rule, Alpine's inability to issue direct coverage in a state does not render it unable to provide reinsurance with respect to risks located in the state. Insurers assuming risk only from other insurers rather than issuing direct insurance (reinsurers) are subject to a lesser degree of regulatory scrutiny and compliance obligations outside their states of domicile than insurers issuing direct insurance. Through regulation of the reserves required to be maintained in a ceding insurer's statutory financial statements and the circumstances in which such reserves may be reduced through the cession of liabilities to a reinsurer, however, states can indirectly influence the activities of reinsurers. Due, in part, to such reserve requirements, the Quota Share Arrangement has been structured on a "funds held" basis. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with UCIC." In addition, Alpine's prior and existing regulatory issues could lead regulators to place restrictions on Alpine's ability to act as a reinsurer of UCIC under the Quota Share Arrangement or of any other insurer.
An insurer's eligibility to write direct insurance on a surplus lines basis in most jurisdictions is dependent on its compliance with certain financial standards, including the maintenance of a requisite level of capital and surplus and the establishment of certain statutory deposits. In recent years, many jurisdictions, including those in which Alpine has conducted most of its insurance business, have increased the minimum financial standards applicable to surplus lines eligibility including adoption of the NAIC's model surplus lines act which, among other things, establishes a minimum policyholders' surplus requirement of $15.0 million. This minimum requirement would preclude the Company from acting as a surplus lines insurer in these jurisdictions but not preclude it from acting as a reinsurer.
In certain states, insurers such as Alpine which are not authorized to conduct insurance business in such states, may not be permitted to file certain pleadings in court until such insurers have posted a bond with the court. Alpine has been faced with this requirement in two states, but has suffered no material adverse impact. If the requirement were to be enforced against Alpine, it could significantly increase Alpine's costs with respect to coverage lawsuits and other litigation matters, and, thus, adversely affect the Company.
LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
The Company is directly liable for loss and loss adjustment expense payments under the terms of insurance policies that it has written and pursuant to reinsurance agreements under which it has assumed insurance business. For the Company's occurrence policies and occurrence policies reinsured by the Company, in many cases, several years may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to the Company and the Company's payment of that loss. For the Company's claims made policies and claims made policies reinsured by the Company, the occurrence of the loss must be reported during the policy period or any extended reporting period. The Company reflects its liability for the ultimate payment of all incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses by establishing loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which are balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of future amounts needed to pay claims and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred.
When a claim involving a probable loss is reported, the Company establishes a case reserve for the estimated amount of the Company's ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense payments. The estimate reflects an informed judgment based on established reserving practices and the experience and knowledge of claims personnel regarding the nature and value of the claim as well as the estimated expense of settling the claim, including legal and other fees, and general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. Management also establishes reserves on an aggregate basis to provide for losses incurred but not reported ("IBNR reserves"), as well as future development on losses reported to the Company. The amount of an insurer's incurred losses in a given period is determined by adding
losses and loss adjustment expenses paid during the period to case loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and IBNR reserves (collectively, "loss reserves") at the end of the period, then subtracting loss reserves existing at the beginning of the period.
As part of the reserving process, historical data is reviewed, and consideration is given to the anticipated effect of various factors, including known and anticipated legal developments, inflation and economic conditions and collectibility of deductibles. Reserve amounts are necessarily based on management's estimates, and as other data become available and are reviewed, these estimates and judgments are revised, resulting in increases or decreases to existing reserves. To verify the adequacy of its reserves, the Company engages independent actuarial consultants to perform periodic case and ultimate loss reserve analyses.
Estimates for ultimate loss reserves are inherently difficult to determine because they are attempts to quantify future results based on current trends. The effort to predict the Company's ultimate losses and loss adjustment expense has been made more difficult because the Company's recent business includes a substantial amount of insurance written for subcontractors and general contractors, most of which are located in California. California law relating to contractors has changed significantly over the last several years as a consequence of California legal decisions and newly enacted legislation. The Company, additionally, significantly modified its policy forms and underwriting standards relating to its contractor business in each of 1996, 1995 and 1994. Because of the foregoing, the assumptions made and the trends used by the Company in estimating its reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses have been relatively untested by time and actual development of reserves.
In February 1996, the Company's independent actuaries arrived at a determination that the Syndicate and Alpine had experienced substantial adverse loss development during 1995. This adverse loss development was in addition to adverse loss development experienced by Alpine during 1994 and the Syndicate during 1993. In order to evaluate the loss data on which the actuarial determinations were based, the Company hired an independent claims specialist in February 1996 to conduct a review of its "case" loss reserves (reserves relating to specific claims). Based on the claims specialist's review of the Company's claim files, the Company determined that its case loss reserves were substantially overstated, stemming principally from three inappropriate reserving practices: (i) claims examiners' establishing initial case reserves at levels higher than justified by the information received by the Company with respect to claims, (ii) claims examiners' establishing case reserves without taking into account deductibles (e.g., a claim may have a likely ultimate loss amount of $15,000, but the claim may relate to a policy with a $5,000 deductible payable by the insured, in which case the appropriate reserve generally would be $10,000, assuming the deductible is collectible) and (iii) claims examiners' not timely reducing case reserves following receipt of favorable information with respect to claims. Alpine and the Syndicate were unable to provide data concerning the reserve overstatements in final form to the actuaries in time for such data to be considered in the actuaries' certification of Alpine's and the Syndicate's 1995 loss reserves for their unaudited 1995 statutory financial statements. Consequently, the statutory financial statements which incorporated the overstated loss reserves were provided to Best and state regulatory authorities. The overstatement of loss reserves contributed to the adverse financial results reported by Alpine and the Syndicate, the Best ratings downgrades and the actions taken against the Company by state regulatory authorities (see "-- Background Concerning Changes in Operations").
After discussions with the Illinois DOI in early 1996, the Company hired another independent actuarial firm to review and recertify the Company's loss reserves as of December 31, 1995. The recertification was completed in August 1996 and accepted by the Illinois DOI, following its commissioning of an additional independent actuarial review confirming the Company's review, in December 1996. Based upon the recertifications, the Company had an overstatement, or redundancy, of approximately $14.9 million in its loss reserves in its initially filed unaudited December 31, 1995
statutory statements. In September 1996, Alpine filed amended statutory statements eliminating substantially all of the redundancy. Because Alpine also non-admitted a substantial amount of assets in 1995 (principally receivables from TCO), the net effect to Alpine's surplus was a reduction of approximately $5 million. Pursuant to an understanding with the IIE, no amended statements for the Syndicate were prepared or filed.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending loss reserves net of reinsurance. Consistent with the Company's adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 113, Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long- Duration Contracts, the reserves are presented in the financial statements on a gross basis with reinsurance recoverable-unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses presented as assets. The Company does not discount its loss reserves.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation from the Company's GAAP basis reserves to its reserves calculated in accordance with statutory accounting practices:
The following table presents the development of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves net of reinsurance from 1987 through 1996 for the Company. The top line of the table shows the estimated reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses net of reinsurance at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years. These figures represent the estimated amount of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims arising in all prior years that were unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but not yet reported. The second line of the table, "Subsequent commutations and other adjustments not affecting development," represents reductions of the reserve credits as a result of commutations of reinsurance treaties subsequent to the year ended in each column and additions to reserves as a result of the acquisition of The Erie Syndicate, Inc. in 1989. These adjustments do not affect development as payments made against these reserves are classified in the appropriate year. The table also shows the re-estimated amounts of the previously recorded reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimates change as more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of claims for individual years.
The following table presents loss reserves net of reinsurance with supplemental gross data:
The cumulative redundancy or deficiency represents the aggregate change in the loss reserve estimates over all prior years. The table presents a run-off of balance sheet reserves rather than accident or policy year loss development. Therefore, each amount in the table includes the effects of changes in loss reserves for all prior years. The table generally indicates that on both gross and net bases, the Company's reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses have been subsequently adjusted downward from the reserves initially established. This is a result of (i) a relatively conservative approach in
estimating initial reserves, resulting in part from a statutory requirement that reserves for most lines of the Company's business be carried at a minimum of at least 60% of premiums earned for the first three years, in the case of Alpine, and the first four years, in the case of the Syndicate, and (ii) somewhat better than anticipated results in settling claims while avoiding punitive and other extraordinary losses.
COMPETITION
The Company ceased issuing direct insurance in August 1996, and is not currently issuing any insurance policies directly to insureds. Its current business activities consist of: acting as a reinsurer (effective as of April 1, 1997) with respect to insurance policies issued by UCIC; handling claims under policies and reinsurance contracts previously issued by the Company and implementing mid-term adjustments to and cancellations of such policies; and related management, investment, reporting and accounting functions. In lieu of issuing direct insurance business, effective as of April 1, 1997, Alpine entered into the Quota Share Arrangement with UCIC.
Management believes that competition is increasing in the markets in which the Company historically has operated, which may hinder the Company's re-entry into such markets should the Company recommence direct underwriting operations and may interfere with the Company's ability to generate profits through the Quota Share Arrangement. Many of the Company's and UCIC's existing or potential competitors are larger, have higher Best ratings, have considerably greater financial and other resources and offer a broader line of insurance products than the Company or UCIC. Should the Company recommence underwriting operations, it will face competition from other surplus line insurers, new forms of insurance organizations such as risk retention groups and, potentially, licensed insurers issuing coverages previously written by the Company in the surplus lines market. See also "-- Background Concerning Changes in Operations -- Best Ratings Downgrades."
EMPLOYEES
Prior to January 1995, the Company had no compensated employees; employees of TCO performed all underwriting, claims and other services for the Company pursuant to management agreements between the Company and TCO. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with TCO." Effective January 1, 1995, certain officers of TCO and Alpine, and certain individuals providing administrative and support services to such officers, became fully or partially compensated employees of Exstar. The salary, benefit costs and other expenses borne by the Company in connection with this arrangement were approximately $2.1 million in 1995. Following the downgrading of the Company's Best ratings in 1996, the Company and TCO significantly reduced their staff and expenses, and most of the remaining employees of TCO (other than Claims Control employees) became employees of Alpine. Consequently, the Company became directly responsible for the payment of all salaries and benefits related to such employees. The claims handling staff, however, became employees of Claims Control, a TCO Holdings subsidiary, on January 1, 1996. Claims Control is reimbursed by Alpine for the salary and benefit costs related to such employees, and Claims Control's general and administrative expenses, in consideration of Claims Control's continued handling of claims under policies previously issued by the Company. Claims Control currently pays over to Alpine amounts paid to Claims Control by UCIC for handling UCIC claims. See "-- Current and Future Operations and Organizational Structure -- Relationship with UCIC."
At January 1, 1996, the Company and TCO, together, had 134 employees and total annualized payroll of approximately $7 million. At August 1, 1996, 85 employees remained (almost all of whom, other than the Claims Control employees, had become employees of the Company). The pay levels of many of the remaining employees (principally members of senior and middle management) were reduced. As a result, total annualized payroll at August 1, 1996 (before reimbursements from Transre and E&S) was approximately $4.5 million. Other operating expenses also were reduced substantially from prior
levels. General and administrative expenses following the reductions totaled approximately $5 million annualized. Because of cost reductions and other opportunities, individuals no longer employed by the Company include Exstar's former Chief Financial Officer, two senior underwriters, the former head of the Company's management information services department, the former head of the Company's claims department and the former President of Alpine. As a result of these departures, the Company's overall level of management experience has significantly decreased. Depending on the Company's financial condition and prospects, management expects the Company will need to hire additional personnel during 1997, assuming the Quota Share Arrangement remains in place, to support the Company's operations.
During 1996, to assist the Company in retaining sufficient staffing and to offset, in part, salary reductions instituted in 1996, Alpine sought approval from the Illinois DOI to pay bonuses to its employees. The Illinois DOI tentatively approved payment of the bonuses, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $400,000 payable by Alpine, but conditioned payment upon several assumptions and satisfaction of certain conditions, including the implementation of the Quota Share Arrangement (provided that it remained in effect for a period of time satisfactory to the Illinois DOI). The Company ultimately expects to pay some or all of the bonus amount to Alpine employees during 1997, but is unable to determine what amount will finally be approved by the Illinois DOI or when, if ever, it will be approved. In addition, management is considering a reduction in the exercise prices of certain outstanding options to acquire Exstar Common Stock held by its current employees. The Common Stock which is the subject of the options is owned by TCO and is available for purchase upon the exercise of options pursuant to the TCO Insurance Services 1992 Stock Incentive Plan ("TCO Plan").
In addition to performing services directly for the Company, the majority of the Company's employees are performing services for Transre and E&S in connection with the Limited Agency Agreement. In this regard, and in accordance with a plan filed by Alpine with and approved by the Illinois DOI in connection with its review of Alpine (see "-- Regulation -- Illinois Order"), the salaries and benefit costs associated with these employees, as well as general and administrative costs (including rent, utilities, insurance costs and licensing fees), are currently being allocated among Alpine, Transre and E&S. The total amount reimbursed by Transre and E&S to the Company during 1996 (covering the period from the beginning of the allocation on August 1, 1996, through December 31, 1996) was approximately $1.2 million. The amount payable by Claims Control to the Company for 1996 with respect to revenues received from UCIC was approximately $4,000. The allocations are based on management's estimates of the relative amounts of employee time and Company resources devoted to the operations. For example, the majority of the Company's salary expense relating to its underwriting department has been allocated to Transre and E&S, because the underwriting department's principal activities involve producing new business for UCIC, while the underwriting department's activities with respect to the Company's prior business are limited. Conversely, salaries for management, accounting, administration and other departments are allocated as much as 80% to Alpine. The plan approved by the Illinois DOI anticipates that the allocations to Alpine will gradually decrease, and the allocations to Transre and E&S will gradually increase, over time, but no assurances can be given that such allocations will occur at any particular time, if at all. As circumstances change, revised allocations are expected to be implemented, subject to approval by the Illinois DOI.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company generally owns real property only for investment or sale. The Company's principal real estate investments consist of two office buildings with a combined book value of approximately $4.3 million. These office buildings serve as the Company's headquarters, and are located at 2028 Village Lane (25,000 square feet) and 2029 Village Lane (13,000 square feet), Solvang, California. The Company currently leases 6,000 square feet of space in one of these buildings to the YMCA at an annual rent of approximately $54,000 (subject to adjustment) under a two-year lease, with three one-year renewal options. The Company from time to time solicits offers to purchase the office
buildings and would be willing to sell the properties to a buyer with whom the Company would enter into a sale-leaseback arrangement if appropriate terms could be agreed upon. At the present time, the Company has not identified such a purchaser.
TCO leases office space in Chicago, Illinois. Exstar may be deemed to be a guarantor of TCO's obligations or otherwise may be deemed to be obligated under the lease. TCO is currently in default under the lease, and the lessor has made a demand for payment. Management contemplates that Alpine may assume the lease with respect to a portion of the property currently leased (approximately 7,000 square feet of the approximately 16,400 square feet currently leased), at a reduced rent (approximately $20 per square foot per year versus the current rate of approximately $38 per square foot per year). Discussions are currently ongoing with the lessor as to a settlement with respect to the lease. Assuming that Alpine leases a portion of the premises on the foregoing terms, the maximum total amount of the remaining obligations under the lease are estimated to be approximately $1.7 million. It is contemplated that a settlement may be reached with the lessor under which the lease obligations are satisfied through the transfer of Exstar Common Stock to the lessor. Some of the Common Stock would be contributed by TCO, from the 536,000 shares of Common Stock currently owned by it with the remainder, if any, being contributed by Exstar from its authorized but unissued stock. Some of the Common Stock owned by TCO is currently pledged to guarantee TCO's obligations pursuant to the Loan Agreement. See "Business -- Investments -- Loan to TCO"--Item 1. The Company has not yet resolved issues concerning the use of Exstar Common Stock owned by TCO in connection with the satisfaction of TCO's obligations. There is also a possibility the Company will be able to sublet this space to an unaffiliated party or that no settlement will be reached and the Company will have to locate alternative office space or become subject to legal proceedings brought by the lessor.
ITEM 3.