Item 2.
Properties
Offshore Gabon- Etame Marin Block
VAALCO has an interest in an approximately 28,700 gross acre offshore block in Gabon, the Etame Marin block, where it signed a production sharing contract in 1995. The block contains the Etame, Avouma, South Tchibala and Ebouri fields, all of which are in production, and the Southeast Etame/North Tchibala field, which are currently being developed. These fields and discoveries consist of subsalt reservoirs that lie 20 miles offshore in water depths of approximately 250 feet.
VAALCO operates the Etame Marin block on behalf of a consortium of companies. The Company owns a 28.1% interest in the development areas in and surrounding the Etame, Avouma/South Tchibala and Ebouri fields. The development areas were subject to a 7.5% back-in by the Government of Gabon, which occurred for these fields after their successful development. The Government of Gabon has since assigned the back-in interest to a third party. The Southeast Etame/North Tchibala field will also be subject to the 7.5% back in by the Government of Gabon.
The Etame Marin block consortium approved the development of the Etame field in 2001. An application for commerciality was filed with the government of Gabon, and in July 2001 the consortium was awarded an approximately 12,000 gross acre exploitation area surrounding the field. The exploitation area has a term of 20 years through June 2021 (a ten year primary term followed by two subsequent five year renewals) and also includes the Southeast Etame field currently being developed.
The development of the Etame field included drilling and completing subsea wells connected to a contracted floating production, storage and offloading vessel (“FPSO”). More recently, in the third quarter of 2014, the Company installed a platform in approximately 250 feet of water and in the fourth quarter of 2014 commenced drilling of two development wells from the platform. The development wells are tied back to the FPSO via a pipeline. There are currently four wells producing in the Etame field.
In April 2005, a development plan for the joint development of the Avouma/South Tchibala field was approved by the Gabon government. The Company was awarded an approximately 13,000 gross acre exploitation area which has a term of 20 years through March 2025 (a ten year primary term followed by two subsequent five year renewals). In 2006, the Company installed a platform in approximately 250 feet of water and drilled development wells from the platform. Three wells are currently producing in the South Tchibala/Avouma field. A well in the Avouma field is temporarily not producing oil as it is waiting on a workover to replace an in-line valve and potentially the failed electrical submersible pumps. The development wells are tied back to the FPSO via a ten mile pipeline.
The Company drilled the Ebouri discovery well to total depth in January 2004. In October 2006, the Gabon government approved the development plan for the Ebouri field and the Company was awarded an approximately 3,700 gross acre exploitation area which has a term of 20 years through July 2026 (a ten year primary term followed by two subsequent five year renewals). A platform was installed in July 2008, approximately seven miles from the FPSO and is tied back to the FPSO via a pipeline as was done for the Avouma/South Tchibala field. The first development well began production in January 2009 and the second development well began producing crude oil in April 2009. A third development well began production in May 2010. There is currently one producing well in the Ebouri field.
In July 2012, the Company discovered the presence of hydrogen sulfide (“H2S”) from two of the three producing wells in the Ebouri field. The wells were shut-in for safety and marketability reasons resulting in a decrease of approximately 2,000 BOPD or approximately 10% of the gross daily production from the Etame Marin block at that time. In addition, H2S was first detected in January 2014 and later confirmed in July 2014 in the Etame 5-H well in the Etame field, and this well has also been shut-in. Analysis and options for re-establishing production from the impacted areas continued through the fourth quarter of 2014. To re-establish and maximize production from the impacted areas, additional capital investment will be required, including a processing facility capable of removing H2S, recompletion of the temporarily abandoned wells, and potentially, additional new wells. Considering the substantial recent fall in oil prices, the Company and its partners are focusing on more cost efficient options for a processing facility (e.g. chemical removal options, construction of a smaller facility on existing structures, or the use of surplus equipment and used structures). There can be no assurances that the processing facility will be completed by 2017, if at all, or that a more cost effective facility will cover all affected areas of the Ebouri and Etame fields. It is expected that the timing of the project startup will be known as early as the fourth quarter of 2015 with a goal of re-establishing production from the area impacted by H2S as soon as practical. Should the Company and its partners evaluation result in no economic alternative, a decrease of as much as 2.4 million barrels of proved undeveloped reserves could result.
The Company and its partners approved the construction of two additional production platforms in late 2012 as part of future development plans for the Etame Marin block. The construction of the two new platforms began in the first quarter of 2013 and were installed in the third quarter of 2014. One platform was installed in the Etame field and the second platform was installed between the Southeast Etame/North Tchibala field. The Company contracted a drilling rig to commence a multi-well development drilling
program, which moved onto location and began drilling the first well in November 2014 from the Etame platform, in the Etame field. The Company drilled a successful exploration well in the Southeast Etame area in 2010 which is expected to be developed from the second platform in 2015. The total cost to build and install the two platforms was $351.0 million ($106.5 million net to the Company). The cost of the wells is not included in the platform costs.
The sixth extension of the exploration acreage on this block expired at the end of July 2014. The Company fully met all of the obligations under the terms of the sixth extension period. In the second quarter of 2014, and prior to the deadline, the Company and its partners submitted a proposal for a seventh exploration license. The Government of Gabon responded in the first quarter of 2015 that a seventh exploration license would require a separate production sharing contract (“PSC”) and this requirement is being evaluated by the Company and its partners.
Late in 2012, a drilling and workover campaign began with the arrival of a drilling rig to conduct a six well program that was ultimately increased to an eight well program extending into 2014. The early-2014 program included the drilling of an exploration well that did not discover commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Accordingly, the Company expensed $1.9 million of incurred dry hole costs in the fourth quarter of 2013 for this well, with the remainder of $11.7 million of dry hole costs expensed in the first quarter of 2014. The Company performed a workover to replace the electrical submersible pumps in a well in the Avouma field in the first quarter of 2014 and in May 2014 brought on production a development well drilled in the South Tchibala field to replace a well with damaged casing.
Following the installation of the two additional platforms in the third quarter of 2014, the Company and its partners began a development well drilling campaign beginning in October 2014 from the Etame platform. The first well drilled, the Etame 8-H well, was completed in December 2014 and was shut-in as the well was determined to be producing H2S during the initial testing process. The Company is planning to conduct an extended well test of the Etame 8-H well, to confirm and quantify the presence of H2S which was detected during the initial 17 hour flow test. The well test is expected to occur in the first half of 2015. In December 2014, the Company spudded the Etame 10-H well which was drilled to the 1-V fault block, and the well was brought on production in the first quarter of 2015. The Etame 10-H well confirmed the presence of an undrained lower lobe of the Gamba reservoir in this fault block with no H2S present. Additional development wells are expected to be drilled in 2015 from the two platforms.
As part of securing the first of two five-year extensions in 2011 to the Etame field production license to which the Company is entitled from the government of Gabon, the Company agreed to a cash funding arrangement for the eventual abandonment of all offshore wells, platforms and facilities on the Etame Marin Block. The agreement was finalized in the first quarter of 2014 (effective 2011) providing for annual funding over the remaining life of the production license. The amounts paid will be reimbursed through the cost account and are non-refundable to the Company. The initial funding took place in October 2014 for calendar years 2012 and 2013 totaling $8.4 million ($2.3 million net to the Company). The funding for calendar year 2014 was paid in the first quarter of 2015 in the amount of $4.2 million ($1.2 million net to the Company). As in prior periods, the obligation for abandonment of the Gabon offshore facilities is included in the asset retirement obligation shown on the Company’s balance sheet. The cash funding is reflected under other long term assets as “Abandonment Funding”.
In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $98.3 million to write down its investment in certain fields comprising the Etame Marin Block, offshore Gabon to its fair value. An impairment of $38.5 million was recorded in the Etame field, $5.9 million in the Ebouri field and $53.9 million in the Southeast Etame/North Tchibala field. The impairment is a result of the recent decline in the forecasted oil prices used in the impairment testing and calculation.
Onshore Gabon - Mutamba Iroru block
In November 2005, the Company signed a production sharing contract for the Mutamba Iroru block onshore Gabon. The five year contract awarded the Company exploration rights to approximately 270,000 acres along the central coast of Gabon. The Company acquired aeromagnetic gravity data in 2008, and together with seismic data acquired from previous operators over the block in 2006 and 2007, drilled two exploration wells in 2009. Both wells encountered water bearing sands and were abandoned.
The Company executed a farm-out agreement in August 2010 with Total Gabon on the Mutamba Iroru block located onshore near the coast in central Gabon. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Total Gabon committed to reprocess 400 kilometers of 2-D seismic data and drill one exploration well. The seismic reprocessing work was completed in 2012. The exploration well was drilled in 2012 resulting in a discovery. In return for funding 75% of the work commitment (seismic reprocessing and exploration well costs), Total Gabon earned a 50% interest on the permit.
A revised production sharing contract (“PSC”) including exploration rights is in the approval process. The term sheet, which specifies financial and other obligations to be included in the PSC, was agreed to and signed by the Company, its joint venture partner, and the Government of Gabon on July 31, 2014. The form of the PSC has been completed and presented to the Company and its joint
venture partner for execution. The joint venture partner has withheld its approval of the new PSC pending resolution of certain legal aspects of the new agreement with the Government of Gabon. In March 2015, the joint venture partner indicated to the Company that the legal aspects have not yet been resolved to their satisfaction. The Company can provide no assurance as to the joint venture partner approving the PSC. The Company remains committed to this block and further meetings of the parties are expected to occur in the first half of 2015.
After the PSC is approved, an application for a development area will be made by the Company. After issuance of a development area, the next step is the submittal of the plan of development. The Company can provide no assurances as to the either the approval of the PSC by the Government of Gabon, or the subsequent approval of a development area by the Government of Gabon.
Development of the onshore block is expected to capitalize on synergies such as experienced personnel from our operating base office space, warehouse and open yard space in Port Gentil, Gabon.
Offshore Angola - Block 5
In November 2006, the Company signed a production sharing contract for Block 5 offshore Angola. The four year primary term, with an optional three year extension, awards the Company exploration rights to 1.4 million acres offshore central Angola. The Company’s working interest is 40%. Additionally, the Company is required to carry the Angolan national oil company, Sonangol P&P, for 10% of the work program. During the first four years of the contract, the Company had commitments to acquire and process seismic and drill two exploration wells. The seismic commitments were met within the time period, but the wells were not drilled due to partner non-performance.
The government-assigned working interest partner was delinquent in paying their share of the costs several times in 2009 and consequently was placed in a default position. By a governmental decree dated December 1, 2010, the former partner was removed from the production sharing contract, and a one year time extension was granted for drilling the two exploration commitment wells. Additional extensions were subsequently granted by the Angolan government until November 30, 2014 to drill the two exploration commitment wells.
In the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company received a written confirmation from The Ministry of Petroleum of Angola that the available 40% working interest in Block 5, offshore Angola, has been assigned to Sonangol E.P., the National Concessionaire. The Ministry of Petroleum also confirmed that Sonangol E.P. would assign the aforementioned participating interest to its exploration and production affiliate, Sonangol P&P. The assignment was made effective on January 1, 2014. The unpaid amounts from the defaulted partner plus the amounts incurred on partner behalf during the period prior to assignment of the working interest to Sonangol P&P are believed by the Company to be the responsibility of the acquirer of the working interest. The Company invoiced Sonangol P&P for these amounts totaling $7.6 million plus interest in April 2014. Due to the uncertainty of collection, the Company has recorded a full allowance totaling $7.6 million during 2011 through 2013 for the amount owed to the Company above its 40% working interest plus the 10% carried interest.
In April 2014, the Company received a letter and contractual amendment proposal from Sonangol E.P., the national oil company in Angola related to the extension of the two well drilling commitment. Due to the uncertainty that the primary term of the exploration license would be extended by the Republic of Angola in accordance with the contractual amendment proposal before the November 30, 2014 expiration date, in October 2014, the Company entered into the Subsequent Exploration Phase (“SEP”), together with its working interest partner, Sonangol P&P. The SEP option was provided for in the Production Sharing Agreement signed in 2006 with the Republic of Angola. The SEP extends the exploration period for an additional three year period such that the new expiry date for exploration activities is November 30, 2017. Entering the SEP requires the Company and its partner to acquire 3D seismic covering six hundred square kilometers and to drill two additional exploration wells. The Company has already satisfied the seismic obligation of the SEP with the purchase of 3D seismic in the outboard segment of the block in late 2013, which is currently being processed and will continue to be processed into 2015.
By entering into the SEP, the Company is required to drill a total of four exploration wells during the exploration extension period. The four well obligations include the two well commitments under the primary exploration period that carries over to the SEP period. A $10.0 million dollar assessment ($5.0 million dollars net to VAALCO) applies to each of the four commitment exploration wells, if any, that remain undrilled at the end of the exploration period in November 2017. Restricted cash of $10.0 million for the two new commitment wells was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014. At December 31, 2014 the Company had $20.0 million in restricted cash related to the offshore Angola exploration agreement.
A drilling rig contract was signed in July 2014 for a semi-submersible rig to drill the exploration well on the Kindele prospect, a post-salt objective. The well began drilling in the first quarter of 2015. Drilling this well satisfies one of the four exploration well obligations and will release $5.0 million of the $20.0 million recorded as restricted cash at December 31, 2014 by the Company.
Offshore Equatorial Guinea - Block P
In July 2012, the Company signed a definitive agreement with Petronas Carigali Overseas SDN BHD for the purchase of a 31% working interest in Block P, located offshore Equatorial Guinea for 57,000 acres at a cost of $10.0 million. The acquisition was completed on November 1, 2012. GEPetrol, the national oil company of Equatorial Guinea, is the operator of the block. During 2014, the Company and GEPetrol continued to work on a joint operatorship model whereby the Company would have a significant role in operator activities on the block. Additionally, the Company has been working with the Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy regarding timing and budgeting for development and exploration activities.
Onshore Domestic - Texas
The Company acquired a 640 acre lease in the Hefley field (Granite Wash formation) in North Texas in December 2010 and a 480 acre lease in the same formation in July 2011. The first well drilled in the Hefley field began production in August 2011. Production from the second well drilled began in April 2012. During 2014, the two wells produced approximately 3,000 Bbls of condensate and 200 million cubic feet of gas net to the Company after deduction of royalty and severance taxes. Financial impairments totaling $12.6 million were recorded for the Hefley field in 2011 and 2012 on the basis of production performance, projected hydrocarbon price curves, operating expenses and estimated reserves. In the second half of 2013, the Company expensed the remaining unevaluated leasehold costs of the two leases totaling $2.6 million. No capital expenditures occurred in 2014 and no additional capital expenditures are anticipated in 2015 for this property.
Onshore Domestic - Montana
In September 2011, the Company acquired a 65% working interest in approximately 22,000 gross acres (14,300 net acres) covering the Middle Bakken and deeper formations in the East Poplar unit and the Northwest Poplar field in Roosevelt County, Montana. The working interest was subsequently reduced to 50% and 11,000 net acres in December 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, the Company was required to drill three wells at its sole cost. The first of the two wells drilled were unsuccessful efforts, resulting in dry hole costs and leasehold impairment totaling $18.4 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. The third well which was drilled in the fourth quarter of 2012 at a cost of $3.0 million was charged to dry-hole expense in the third quarter of 2013. The remaining carrying value of the undeveloped acreage of this property is $1.3 million and is held by production. No capital expenditures occurred in 2014, and no capital expenditures are anticipated for this property in 2015.
Domestic - Outside Operated
The Company has minor interests in Brazos County, Texas producing from the Buda/Georgetown formations. The Company also owns certain minor non-operated interests in the Ship Shoal area of the Gulf of Mexico and in Pickens County, Alabama. During 2014, these wells produced approximately 100 Bbls of oil and 5 million cubic feet of gas net to the Company. No significant activity was undertaken on these properties in 2014 and no capital expenditures are anticipated in 2015 for these properties.
Sales Volumes, Prices, and Production Costs
Sales volumes, prices, and production costs (net to the Company) for the Company’s operations for the years 2014, 2013, and 2012 are shown below.
(1)
The Hefley field is in the Granite Wash formation, in North Texas.
(2)
Production cost in $/unit is the ratio of the Company’s production cost over units of production.
RESERVE INFORMATION
The table below sets forth the Company’s estimated net proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 as prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. There have been no estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves filed with or included in reports to any federal authority or agency other than the SEC since the beginning of the last fiscal year. International reserves are located in the Etame Marin block offshore Gabon. Domestically, reserves are located in Texas (onshore), Louisiana (offshore) and Alabama (onshore). Reserves estimated by our independent engineers at December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 reflect oil and natural gas spot prices based on the average prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an unweighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
The Company annually reviews all proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) to ensure an appropriate plan for development exists. The Company’s PUDs are generally expected to be converted to proved developed reserves within five years of the date they are first booked as PUDs. However, lower prices for oil and natural gas as seen in the recent decline may cause the Company in the future to forecast less capital to be available for development of its proved undeveloped reserves in the future, which will cause the Company to decrease the amount of its proved undeveloped reserves it expects to develop within the allowed time frame. In addition, lower oil and natural gas prices may cause the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves to become uneconomic to develop, which would cause it to remove them from the proved undeveloped category. Specifically, the estimates of the Company’s reserves for the year ended December 31, 2014 included assumptions regarding capital expenditures to build the processing facility to remove H2S and resume production from certain wells in the Ebouri and Etame fields. Subsequent to 2014 year end, as a result of the substantial recent fall in oil prices, the Company is considering more cost efficient options, and there can be no assurances that the processing facility will be completed by 2017, if at all, or that a more cost effective facility will cover all affected areas of the Ebouri and Etame fields. A determination to not build the processing facility, or to build a more cost effective facility, could force the Company to reclassify certain of its PUDs in these fields as unproved reserves.
The Company had 5,036 MBbls of PUD’s at December 31, 2014 compared with 3,927 MBbls of PUD’s at December 31, 2013. Approximately 3.5 million barrels of the PUD’s are related to the construction of the two new platforms for Etame and Southeast Etame/North Tchibala (2.4 MBbls and 1.1 MBbls of PUD’s respectively). Approximately 1.1 MBbls of PUD’s are associated with the Ebouri field. The remaining 0.4 MBbls of PUD’s associated with the Avouma/South Tchibala field. The table below shows the years that the existing PUD’s (MBbls) were booked (unaudited).
All of the reserves at Ebouri, and a portion of the reserves in the main fault block at Etame may be sour, and the development of these reserves is dependent upon the installation of processing facilities to remove H2S.
Elaborating, in July 2012, the Company discovered the presence of hydrogen sulfide (“H2S”) from two of the three producing wells in the Ebouri field. The wells were shut-in for safety and marketability reasons resulting in a decrease of approximately 2,000 BOPD or approximately 10% of the gross daily production from the Etame Marin block at that time. In addition, H2S was first detected in January 2014 and later confirmed in July 2014 in the Etame 5-H well in the Etame field, and this well has also been shut-in. Analysis and options for re-establishing production from the impacted areas continued through the fourth quarter of 2014. To re-establish and maximize production from the impacted areas, additional capital investment will be required, including a processing facility capable of removing H2S, recompletion of the temporarily abandoned wells, and potentially, additional new wells. Considering the substantial recent fall in oil prices, the Company and its partners are focusing on more cost efficient options for a processing facility (e.g. chemical removal options, construction of a smaller facility on existing structures, or the use of surplus equipment and used structures). There can be no assurances that the processing facility will be completed by 2017, if at all, or that a more cost effective facility will cover all affected areas of the Ebouri and Etame fields. It is expected that the timing of the project startup will be known as early as the fourth quarter of 2015 with a goal of re-establishing production from the area impacted by H2S as soon as practical. Should the Company and its partners evaluation result in no economic alternative a decrease of as much as 2.4 million barrels of proved undeveloped reserves could result at Etame and Ebouri.
The Company does not have any PUD’s associated with its United States operations.
Controls Over Reserve Estimates
The Company’s policies and practices regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves is structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserves quantities and present values in compliance with the SEC’s regulations and GAAP. Compliance with these rules and regulations with respect to the Company’s reserves is the responsibility of the Company’s reservoir engineer, who is the Company’s principal engineer. The Company’s principal engineer has over 20 years of experience in the oil and gas industry, including over 10 years as a reserve evaluator, trainer or manager and is a qualified reserves estimator, as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. Further professional qualifications include a Bachelor’s and Master’s degree in petroleum engineering, extensive internal and external reserve training, and asset evaluation and management. In addition, the principal engineer is an active participant in industry reserve seminars, professional industry groups and has been a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers for over 20 years.
The Company’s controls over reserve estimates included retaining NSAI as our independent petroleum and geological firm. The Company provided information about the Company’s oil and gas properties, including production profiles, prices and costs, to NSAI and they prepare their own estimates of the reserves attributable to our properties. All of the information regarding reserves in this annual report on Form 10-K is derived from the report of NSAI. The report of NSAI is included as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical
persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. John Cliver and Mr. Patrick Higgs. Mr. Cliver, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas, has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2009 and has over 5 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Rice University in 2004 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering and from University of Texas at Austin in 2008 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. Mr. Higgs, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1996 and has over 20 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1976 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geophysics. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets with management, including the Company’s principal engineer, to discuss matters and policies related to reserves.
The following tables set forth the net proved reserves of the Company as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and the changes during such periods.
The Company does not book proved reserves on discoveries until such time as a development plan has been prepared and approved by the Company’s partners in the discovery. Furthermore, if a government agreement that the reserves are commercial is required to develop the field, this approval must have been received prior to booking any reserves.
The Company’s proved developed reserves are located offshore Gabon and in Alabama, Texas and waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Revisions in 2014 were primarily due to better reservoir performance at the Avouma/South Tchibala field (1,507 MBbls) and a combination of better reservoir performance from existing wells at Etame, and revisions to proved undeveloped reserves at Etame (1,122 MBbls). Ebouri proved undeveloped reserves were revised downward (300 MBbls) due to higher costs of developing the reserves rendering them uneconomic. Revisions in 2013 were primarily due to better reservoir performance at the Etame field (800 MBbls). In 2012, the revisions were due to improved reservoir performance at the Avouma/South Tchibala field (1,200 MBbls) and improved reservoir performance at Etame (1,000 MBbls). In 2014, the extensions and discoveries were associated with the booking of the Southeast Etame/North Tchibala reserves. Extensions and discovery reserve additions in 2013 were due to the drilling of the Avouma 3H well which extended the reservoir boundary further to the north at the Avouma field. In 2012, the extensions and discoveries were associated with the booking of the Southeast Etame/North Tchibala reserves following approval of the development plans for these fields and final investment decision to install the platforms necessary to develop these fields.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and
judgment. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Company’s properties. The information set forth in the foregoing tables includes revisions for certain reserve estimates attributable to proved properties included in the preceding year’s estimates. Such revisions are the result of additional information from subsequent completions and production history from the properties involved or the result of a decrease (or increase) in the projected economic life of such properties resulting from changes in product prices. Moreover, crude oil amounts shown for Gabon are recoverable under a service contract and the reserves in place remain the property of the Gabon government.
In accordance with the current guidelines of the SEC, the Company’s estimates of future net cash flow from the Company’s properties and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas contract prices using a twelve month average price and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. In Gabon, the 12-month weighted average price of oil as of December 31, 2014, was $98.88 per Bbl. In the United States, the 12-month weighted average price as of December 31, 2014, was $86.49 per Bbl of condensate and $5.193 per Mcf of gas. Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these estimates. Prices for oil or gas at their current levels after the severe decline in the second half of 2014 are currently below the average calculated for 2014, and sustained lower prices will cause the twelve month weighted average price to decrease over time as the lower prices are reflected in the average price, resulting in the estimated quantities and present values of the Company’s reserves being reduced.
Additionally, the estimates for the Company’s reserves for the year ended December 31, 2014 included assumptions regarding capital expenditures to build the processing facility to remove H2S and resume production from certain wells in the Ebouri and Etame fields. Subsequent to 2014 year end, as a result of the substantial recent fall in oil prices, the Company is considering more cost efficient options, and there can be no assurances that the processing facility will be completed by 2017, if at all, or that a more cost effective facility will cover all affected areas of the Ebouri and Etame fields. A determination to not build the processing facility or to build a more cost effective facility could cause the Company to reclassify certain of its PUDs in these fields as unproved reserves.
Drilling History
In 2014, the Company drilled three wells and completed one well reported in 2013 as being in-progress as follows: one development well offshore Gabon in the Avouma/South Tchibala field (productive), two developments wells offshore Gabon in the Etame field (in-progress) and one exploratory well offshore Gabon (dry, reported as being in-progress at the end of 2013).
Acreage and Productive Wells
Below is the total acreage under lease and the total number of productive oil and gas wells of the Company as of December 31, 2014:
(1)
Net acreage and net productive wells are based upon the Company’s working interest in the properties. The Company’s share of net developed acreage offshore Gabon is 8,100 acres. The Company has net undeveloped acreage of 560,000 acres in Angola, 110,000 acres onshore Gabon and 18,000 acres in Equatorial Guinea.
Office Space
The Company leases its offices in Houston, Texas (approximately 22,023 square feet), and in Luanda, Angola (approximately 2,500 square feet), and in the first quarter of 2014, the Company bought the office space in Port Gentil, Gabon (approximately 20,925 square feet) which management believes are adequate for the Company’s operations. The office space in Port Gentil, Gabon was purchased by the Company in the first quarter of 2014.
Item 3.