Item 2.
Properties
Offshore Gabon- Etame Marin Block
VAALCO has an interest in an approximately 759,000 gross acre offshore block in Gabon, the Etame Marin block, where it signed a production sharing contract in 1995. The block contains the Etame, Avouma, South Tchibala and Ebouri fields, all of which are in production, and the Southeast Etame and North Tchibala fields, which are currently being developed. These fields and discoveries consist of subsalt reservoirs that lie 20 miles offshore at a depth of approximately 250 feet.
VAALCO operates the Etame Marin block on behalf of a consortium of companies. At December 31, 2013, VAALCO owned a 30.35% interest in the exploration acreage within the Etame Marin block. The Company owns a 28.1% interest in the development areas in and surrounding the Etame, Avouma, South Tchibala and Ebouri fields. The development areas were subject to a 7.5% back-in by the Government of Gabon, which occurred for these fields after their successful development. The Southeast Etame and North Tchibala fields will also be subject to the 7.5% back in by the Government of Gabon.
The Etame Marin block consortium approved the development of the Etame field in 2001. An application for commerciality was filed with the government of Gabon, and in July 2001 the consortium was awarded an approximately 12,000 gross acre exploitation area surrounding the field. The exploitation area has a term of 20 years (through 2021).
The Etame field has been developed at an aggregate cost as of December 31, 2013 for approximately $194.9 million ($52.9 million net to the Company). The development included drilling and completing subsea wells connected to a contracted floating production, storage and offloading vessel (“FPSO”). There are currently three wells capable of producing in the Etame field.
In April 2005, a development plan for the joint development of the Avouma and South Tchibala fields was approved by the Gabon government. The Company was awarded an approximately 13,000 gross acre exploitation area which has a term of 20 years (until 2025). In 2006, the Company installed a platform in approximately 250 feet of water and drilled two development wells from the platform, one into each field. In 2010, a second development well in the South Tchibala field was drilled and successfully completed. A second development well in the Avouma field was successfully completed in 2013. The development wells are tied back to the FPSO via a ten mile pipeline. Through December 31, 2013, the cost of developing the Avouma and South Tchibala fields was approximately $210.7 million ($62.8 million net to the Company).
The Company drilled the Ebouri discovery well to total depth in January 2004. In October 2006, the Gabon government approved the development plan for the Ebouri field and the Company was awarded an approximately 3,700 gross acre exploitation area which has a term of 20 years (until 2026). A platform was installed in July 2008, approximately seven miles from the FPSO and is tied back to the FPSO via a pipeline as was done for the Avouma and South Tchibala fields. The cost of developing the Ebouri field as of December 31, 2013 totaled approximately $203.0 million ($63.5 million net to the Company). The first development well began production in January 2009 and the second development well began producing crude oil in April 2009. A third development well began production in May 2010.
In July 2012, the Company discovered the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) from two of the three producing wells in the Ebouri field. The wells were shut-in for safety reasons resulting in a decrease of approximately 2,000 BOPD or approximately 10% of the gross daily production from the Etame Marin block. In the second quarter of 2013, the Company spent $0.5 million ($0.2 million net to the Company) to temporarily suspend the two affected wells. Analysis of options for re-establishing production from the impacted area began in the second half of 2012 and is expected to continue through the first half of 2014. Additional capital investment will be required, which is likely to include a new platform-type structure with H2S processing capability, recompletion of the temporarily abandoned wells, and potentially additional new wells to re-establish and maximize production from the impacted area. Preliminary economics support the estimated additional capital investment. The design, cost projections and final investment decisions by the Company and its partners are expected to be made in the second half of 2014. Re-establishing production from the area impacted by H2S is expected in the first half of 2017.
The Company and its partners approved the construction of two additional production platforms in late 2012 as part of future development plans for the Etame Marin block. One platform will be located in the Etame field and the second platform will be located between the Southeast Etame and North Tchibala fields. Multiple wells are expected to be drilled from each of the platforms. The Company drilled a successful exploration well in the Southeast Etame area in 2010 which will be developed from the second platform. The remaining expected cost to build and install the platforms in 2014 is $171.3 million ($48.1 million net to the Company). The cost of the wells is not included in the platform costs. The expected cost to build and install the platforms during the 2013/2014 time period is $325.0 million ($91.0 million net to the Company). Construction of the two new platforms began in the first quarter of 2013 and they are scheduled for installation in 2014.
The Company has sold a total of 77.2 million gross Bbls (18.6 million net Bbls) from the fields within the Etame Marin block since startup in 2002 through December 31, 2013. During 2013, the Company sold approximately 6.3 million gross Bbls (1.5 million net Bbls) produced from the Etame, Avouma, South Tchibala and Ebouri fields.
The most recent extension of the exploration acreage on this block expires at the end of July 2014. The terms of the sixth extension period included an additional exploration well, bringing the total required under the permit to two exploration wells, and to acquire additional 3-D seismic data, which was acquired in 2012. One of the two commitment exploration wells was met with the drilling of a well on the Omangou prospect, an unsuccessful effort, in 2010. The second exploration well commitment was met with the drilling of the Ovoka prospect well in the third quarter of 2013 at a cost of $17.2 million ($5.9 million net to the Company). The well located approximately five miles northeast of the Ebouri field and six miles north of the Etame field was found to be water bearing and was abandoned as an unsuccessful effort.
As part of securing the second ten-year production license with the government of Gabon, the Company agreed to a cash funding arrangement for the eventual abandonment of the offshore wells, platforms and facilities. The agreement was finalized in the first quarter of 2014 providing for annual funding over the remaining life of the production license. The amounts paid will be reimbursed through the cost account and are non-refundable to the Company. The funding is expected to begin in the first half of 2014. The abandonment estimate for this purpose is estimated to be approximately $10.1 million net to the Company on an undiscounted basis. As in prior periods, the obligation for abandonment of the Gabon offshore facilities is included in the asset retirement obligation shown on the Company’s balance sheet.
Late in 2012, a drilling and workover campaign began with the arrival of a drilling rig to conduct a six well program that was ultimately increased to an eight well program extending into 2014. In 2013, the drilling and workover campaign included the drilling of a successful development well in the Avouma field, three well workovers to replace ESPs and two unsuccessful exploration wells. The 2014 program includes an exploration well, a replacement development well and one workover to replace ESPs. The Company drilled the exploration well in the first quarter of 2014, an unsuccessful effort due to non-commercial quantities of hydrocarbons being found. Accordingly, the Company expensed $1.9 million of incurred dry hole costs in the fourth quarter of 2013, with the remainder of the cost to be expensed in the first quarter of 2014. Additionally, a water knock-out facility became operational on the Avouma platform during 2013.
Onshore Gabon - Mutamba Iroru block
In November 2005, the Company signed a production sharing contract for the Mutamba Iroru block onshore Gabon. The five year contract awarded the Company exploration rights to approximately 270,000 acres along the central coast of Gabon. The Company acquired aeromagnetic gravity data in 2008, and together with seismic data acquired from previous operators over the block in 2006 and 2007, drilled two exploration wells in 2009. Both wells encountered water bearing sands and were abandoned.
The Company executed a farm-out agreement in August 2010 with Total Gabon on the Mutamba Iroru block located onshore near the coast in central Gabon. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Total Gabon committed to reprocess 400 kilometers of 2-D seismic data and drill one exploration well. The seismic reprocessing work was completed in 2012. The exploration well was drilled in 2012 resulting in a discovery. In return for funding 75% of the work commitment (seismic reprocessing and exploration well costs), Total Gabon earned a 50% interest on the permit.
A revised production sharing contract (“PSC”) including exploration rights is in the approval process by the Republic of Gabon. Once the PSC is approved, the application for a development area is expected to be approved without further delay. After both approvals are obtained, a plan of development, which will include the drilling of wells and the installation of pipelines, will be submitted to the Republic of Gabon for approval. However, the Company can provide no assurances that such a request will be granted. The Company believes the discovery area is not impacted by the uncertainty of the extension agreement as the well was drilled during the contracted period and application of the discovery was timely made to the government of Gabon.
Offshore Angola - Block 5
In November 2006, the Company signed a production sharing contract for Block 5 offshore Angola. The four year primary term, with an optional three year extension, awards the Company exploration rights to 1.4 million acres offshore central Angola. The Company’s working interest is 40%. Additionally, the Company is required to carry the Angolan national oil company, Sonangol P&P, for 10% of the work program. During the first four years of the contract, the Company was required to acquire and process 1,000 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data, drill two exploration wells and expend a minimum of $29.5 million ($14.8 million net to the Company). The Company fulfilled its seismic obligation when it acquired 1,175 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data at a cost of $7.5 million ($3.75 million net to the Company) in January 2007 and 524 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data during the fourth quarter of 2008 at a cost of $6.0 million ($3.0 million net to the Company).
The government-assigned working interest partner was delinquent in paying their share of the costs several times in 2009 and consequently was placed in a default position. By a governmental decree dated December 1, 2010, the former partner was removed from the production sharing contract, and a one year time extension was granted for drilling the two exploration commitment wells. Following the decree, the Company and the government of Angola have been working together to obtain a replacement partner. In early 2012, the Angolan government granted a further one year extension to November 30, 2012 for drilling the two exploration commitment wells in accordance with the production sharing contract. In July 2012, the Angolan government granted an additional two year extension until November 30, 2014 to drill the two exploration commitment wells.
In the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company received a written confirmation from The Ministry of Petroleum of Angola that the available 40% working interest in Block 5, offshore Angola, has been assigned to Sonangol E.P., the National Concessionaire. The Ministry of Petroleum also confirmed that Sonangol E.P. will assign the aforementioned participating interest to its exploration and production affiliate, Sonangol P&P. Due to the continuing circumstances regarding the available 40% working interest, the Company has recorded a full allowance totaling $7.6 million as of December 31, 2013, against the accounts receivable from partners for the amounts owed to the Company above its 40% working interest plus the 10% carried interest. The allowance recorded in the twelve months ended December 31, 2013 totaled $1.6 million with the remainder having been recorded in 2011 and 2012. The Company invoiced its new partner, Sonangol P&P, for the cumulative accounts receivable amount in the first quarter of 2014.
Late in 2013, the Company proceeded to obtain additional seismic data covering the deeper segment of the block. The seismic data will be subject to reprocessing during 2014. Together with Sonangol P&P, a further time extension has been requested to allow for a proper assessment on the recently acquired seismic data and for drilling the two exploration commitment wells. However, the Company can provide no assurances that such a request will be granted. Each well is subject to a $5.0 million penalty ($10.0 million in aggregate for both wells) if not drilled during the contract term. The $10.0 million is currently recorded as restricted cash and is held at a financial institution located in the United States.
Offshore Equatorial Guinea - Block P
In July 2012, the Company signed a definitive agreement with PETRONAS CARIGALI OVERSEAS SDN BHD for the purchase of a 31% working interest in Block P, located offshore Equatorial Guinea for 57,000 acres at a cost of $10.0 million. The acquisition was completed on November 1, 2012. The Company expects two exploration wells will be drilled on this block in the 2014/2015 timeframe. GEPetrol, the national oil company of Equatorial Guinea, is the operator of the block. During 2013, the Company and GEPetrol worked on a joint operatorship model whereby the Company would have a significant role in future operatorship activities on the block. The model is expected to be finalized and implemented in the first half of 2014 allowing for the planning of the expected exploration drilling program.
Onshore Domestic - Texas
The Company acquired a 640 acre lease in the Hefley field (Granite Wash formation) in North Texas in December 2010 and a 480 acre lease in the same formation in July 2011. The first well drilled in the Hefley field began production in August 2011. In November 2011, the Company commenced drilling a second well in the Hefley field and production from the well began in April, 2012. During 2013, the two wells produced approximately 5,000 Bbls of condensate and 300 million cubic feet of gas net to the Company after deduction of royalty and severance taxes. Financial impairments totaling $12.6 million were recorded for the Hefley field in 2011 and 2012 on the basis of production performance, projected hydrocarbon price curves, operating expenses and estimated reserves. In the second half of 2013, the Company expensed the remaining unevaluated leasehold costs of the two leases totaling $2.6 million. No capital expenditures are anticipated in 2014 for this property.
Onshore Domestic - Montana
In May 2011, the Company acquired a 70% working interest in approximately 5,200 acres (3,640 net acres) in Sheridan County, Montana in the Middle Bakken formation. The Company drilled two wells on this acreage in 2012. After completion testing beginning in the fourth quarter of 2012 using electrical submersible pumps (ESPs), both of the wells drilled have been determined to be unsuccessful as the operating and water disposal costs exceeded the value of the gas and condensate produced from the wells. Dry hole cost and leasehold impairment totaling $14.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012 related to these two wells. In 2013, the Company impaired the remaining portion of the leasehold cost in the amount of $1.4 million.
In September 2011, the Company acquired a 65% working interest in approximately 22,000 gross acres (14,300 net acres) covering the Middle Bakken and deeper formations in the East Poplar unit and the Northwest Poplar field in Roosevelt County, Montana. The working interest was subsequently reduced to 50% and 11,000 net acres in December 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, the Company was required to drill three wells at its sole cost, one of which was required to be drilled by June 1, 2012 and the remaining two wells were required to be drilled by the end of 2012. A vertical exploration well, which met the time requirement for drilling the first well, was spudded in December 2011 to evaluate the formations. The second exploration well was
drilled and completed in the Bakken/Three Forks formations. Both of these two wells were unsuccessful efforts, resulting in dry hole costs and leasehold impairment totaling $18.4 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. The third well which was drilled in the fourth quarter of 2012 at a cost of $3.0 million was charged to dry-hole expense in the third quarter of 2013. The remaining carrying value of the undeveloped acreage of this property is $1.3 million and is held by production. No capital expenditures are anticipated in 2014 for this property.
Onshore Domestic - South Dakota
In September 2012, the Company acquired a 100% working interest in approximately 10,000 acres in Harding County, South Dakota, for $1.5 million. The primary objective for this property was the Red River formation. The Company drilled a well on the property in the first quarter of 2013, an unsuccessful effort at a cost of approximately $2.9 million. The Company recorded $0.1 million in dry hole cost and $1.5 million of leasehold impairment costs in the fourth quarter of 2012, and the remaining $2.8 million was recorded as dry hole cost in the first quarter of 2013. The Company does not have plans to proceed with additional investments on this property. No capital expenditures are anticipated in 2014 for this property.
Domestic - Outside Operated
The Company has minor interests in Brazos County, Texas producing from the Buda/Georgetown formations. The Company also owns certain minor non-operated interests in the Ship Shoal area of the Gulf of Mexico and in Pickens County, Alabama. During 2013, these wells produced approximately 301 Bbls of oil and 10 million cubic feet of gas net to the Company. No significant activity was undertaken on these properties in 2013 and no capital expenditures are anticipated in 2014 for these properties.
Sales Volumes, Prices, and Production Costs
Sales volumes, prices, and production costs (net to the Company) for the Company’s operations for the years 2013, 2012, and 2011 are shown below.
(1)
The Hefley field is the first of the two Granite Wash formation leases acquired by the Company in North Texas.
(2)
Excludes the limited sales and cost data in 2012 for the unsuccessful exploration efforts in Sheridan County, Montana
(3)
Production cost in $/unit is the ratio of the Company’s production cost over units of production.
RESERVE INFORMATION
The table below sets forth the Company’s estimated net proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 as prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. There have been no estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves filed with or included in reports to any federal authority or agency other than the SEC since the beginning of the last fiscal year.The reserves are located in Gabon (offshore) and in Texas and Louisiana (onshore and offshore). Reserves estimated by our independent engineers at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 reflect oil and natural gas spot prices based on the average prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an unweighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
The Company annually reviews all proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) to ensure an appropriate plan for development exists. The Company’s PUDs are generally expected to be converted to proved developed reserves within five years of the date they are first booked as PUDs. The Company had 3,927 MBbls of PUDs at December 31, 2013, compared with 3,738 MBbls of PUDs at December 31, 2012.
Internationally, the increase in PUD’s of approximately 0.2 million Bbls at December 31, 2013 was due to upward revisions associated with favorable reservoir performance in the four producing fields comprising in the Etame block.
Approximately, 2.5 million Bbls of PUDs in 2013 are related to two projects for offshore Gabon. The Company and its partners approved the construction of two additional production platforms in late 2012 as part of future development plans for the Etame Marin block. One platform will be located in the Etame field and the second platform will be located between the Southeast Etame and North Tchibala fields. Through the end of 2013, approximately $48.1 million had been spent on these two projects. Both platforms are expected to be set in 2014. Of the approximate 2.5 million Bbls of PUD’s, approximately 0.7 million Bbls of PUDs were initially disclosed in 2009 for the expected drilling of the Etame 8-H well and approximately 0.7 million Bbls of PUDs were initially disclosed in 2010 for the expected drilling of the Etame 9-H well. Both of these wells were planned to be subsea completed wells, but now are expected be drilled from the new Etame field platform. The drilling of these wells is expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2014. Approximately 1.0 million of PUDs were initially disclosed in 2012 for an additional well in the Etame field (expected to be drilled in
2015), plus two wells in the North Tchibala field and one well in the Southeast Etame field. The North Tchibala and Southeast Etame wells are expected to be drilled from the second new platform in 2015. All of the approximate 2.5 million Bbls of PUDs related to the two new platforms are expected to be converted to proved developed reserves within five years of initial disclosure.
Approximately 1.3 million Bbls of PUDs are associated with the Ebouri field. Of this amount, approximately 0.4 million Bbls of PUDs were initially disclosed in 2009 for the expected drilling of the Ebouri 5H well and 0.4 million Bbls of PUDs were initially disclosed in 2011 for the expected drilling of the Ebouri 6H well. Following these disclosures, H2S was detected in the Ebouri field in July 2012 and the drilling and completion of the two wells has been delayed to coincide with the expected installation of processing facilities to accommodate H2S. The remaining PUDs of approximately 0.5 million Bbls are primarily associated with an initially disclosed movement in 2012 from proved developed reserves to proved undeveloped reserves resulting from the temporary abandonment of two of the three producing wells in the Ebouri field due to H2S. Accordingly, approximately 0.8 million BBls of PUDs will exceed five years to be converted to proved developed reserves.
The Company does not have any PUD’s associated with its United States operations.
Controls Over Reserve Estimates
The Company’s policies and practices regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves is structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserves quantities and present values in compliance with the SEC’s regulations and GAAP. Compliance in reserves bookings is the responsibility of the Company’s Vice President-Production, who is the Company’s principal engineer. The Company’s principal engineer has over 20 years of experience in the oil and gas industry, including over 10 years as a reserve evaluator, trainer or manager and is a qualified reserves estimator, as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. Further professional qualifications include a degree in petroleum engineering, extensive internal and external reserve training, and asset evaluation and management. In addition, the principal engineer is an active participant in industry reserve seminars, professional industry groups and has been a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers for over 20 years.
The Company’s controls over reserve estimates included retaining NSAI as our independent petroleum and geological firm. The Company provided information about the Company’s oil and gas properties, including production profiles, prices and costs, to NSAI and they prepare their own estimates of the reserves attributable to our properties. All of the information regarding reserves in this annual report is derived from the report of NSAI. The report of NSAI is included as an exhibit to this report.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical person primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. John Cliver. Mr. Cliver has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2009. Mr. Cliver is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 107216) and has over 9 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 4 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Rice University in 2004 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering and from the University of Texas at Austin in 2008 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. This technical principal meets or exceeds the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; he is proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors meets with management, including access to the Company’s principal engineer, to discuss matters and policies related to reserves.
The following tables set forth the net proved reserves of the Company as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, and the changes during such periods.
The Company does not book proved reserves on discoveries until such time as a development plan has been prepared and approved by the Company’s partners in the discovery. Furthermore, if a government agreement that the reserves are commercial is required to develop the field, this approval must have been received prior to booking any reserves.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to the Company’s properties. The information set forth in the foregoing tables includes revisions for certain reserve estimates attributable to proved properties included in the preceding year’s estimates. Such revisions are the result of additional information from subsequent completions and production history from the properties involved or the result of a decrease (or increase) in the projected economic life of such properties resulting from changes in product prices. Moreover, crude oil amounts shown for Gabon are recoverable under a service contract and the reserves in place remain the property of the Gabon government.
In accordance with the current guidelines of the SEC, the Company’s estimates of future net cash flow from the Company’s properties and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas contract prices using a twelve month average price and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. In Gabon, the 12-month weighted average price of oil as of December 31, 2013, was $107.69 per Bbl. In the United States, the 12-month weighted average price as of December 31, 2013, was $87.61 per Bbl of condensate and $4.506 per Mcf of gas. See Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for certain additional information concerning the proved reserves of the Company.
Drilling History
In 2013, the Company drilled five wells and completed one well reported in 2012 as being in-progress as follows: one exploratory well in the Nisku formation of the East Poplar unit in Roosevelt County, Montana (dry, reported as being in-progress at the end of 2012); one exploratory well in the Red River formation in Harding County, South Dakota (dry); three exploratory wells offshore Gabon (two dry, one in-progress); and one development well offshore Gabon in the Avouma field (productive).
Acreage and Productive Wells
Below is the total acreage under lease and the total number of productive oil and gas wells of the Company as of December 31, 2013:
(1)
Net acreage and net productive wells are based upon the Company’s working interest in the properties.
The leases in which we hold an interest in undeveloped acreage with minimum remaining terms are not material to us.
Office Space
The Company leases its offices in Houston, Texas (approximately 19,700 square feet), in Port Gentil, Gabon (approximately 13,270 square feet) and in Luanda, Angola (approximately 2,500 square feet), which management believes are adequate for the Company’s operations. The office space in Port Gentil, Gabon was in the process of being purchased at December 31, 2013. The sale is expected to be finalized in the first quarter of 2014.
Item 3.