Item 2. Properties.
THE ROYALTY INTERESTS
The Royalty Interests conveyed to the Trust consist of net profits interests in the Underlying Properties. The Royalty Interests were conveyed to the Trust by means of a single instrument of conveyance. The Conveyance was recorded in the appropriate real property records in each county in New Mexico and Colorado where the Underlying Properties are located so as to give notice of the Royalty Interests to creditors and transferees, who would take an interest in the Underlying Properties subject to the Royalty Interests. The Conveyance was intended to convey the Royalty Interests as real property interests under applicable state law.
On May 7, 1997, effective as of May 1, 1997, WPC transferred the Underlying Properties to Quatro Finale LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, pursuant to the terms of a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of May 1, 1997 (the “1997 Transaction”). Prior to the 1997 Transaction, WPC had owned the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests owned by the Trust, since the inception of the Trust. The sale of the Underlying Properties is expressly permitted under the Trust Agreement. Neither the Trustee nor the Delaware Trustee has any control over or responsibility relating to the operation of the Underlying Properties. Under the terms of the 1997 Transaction, ownership of the Underlying Properties reverted back to WPC effective February 1, 2001. Pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated March 14, 2001 (the “2001 Transaction Agreement”) and effective March 1, 2001, WPC transferred the Underlying Properties to Quatro Finale V LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “2001 Transaction”). Effective January 1, 2003, ownership of the Underlying Properties once again reverted back to WPC after it exercised its right to repurchase interests in the Underlying Properties from Quatro Finale V LLC pursuant to the 2001 Transaction Agreement. With respect to the ownership of the Underlying Properties for any period from May 1, 1997 through February 28, 2001, and for the period from March 1, 2001 through January 1, 2003, references herein to WPC should be deemed to refer to Quatro Finale.
Concurrently with the 2001 Transaction, WPC and Quatro Finale entered into a Management Services Agreement dated March 1, 2001 (the “Management Services Agreement”), whereby WPC agreed, among other things, to continue to manage and operate the Underlying Properties and to handle the receipt and payment of funds with respect thereto. Following the 2001 Transaction through January 1, 2003, under the Management Services Agreement, WPC collected all revenues on behalf of Quatro Finale and was obligated to pay to the Trust on behalf of Quatro Finale the amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests. Currently, as it did prior to the 2001
Transaction, WPC receives all payments relating to the Underlying Properties and, pursuant to the Conveyance, pays to the Trust the portion thereof attributable to the Royalty Interests.
Under the Conveyance, the amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests are computed with respect to each calendar quarter ending prior to termination of the Trust, and such amounts are to be paid to the Trust not later than the last day of the calendar month next following the end of each calendar quarter. The amount paid to the Trust does not include interest on any amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests that are held by WPC prior to payment to the Trust. WPC is entitled to retain any amounts attributable to the Underlying Properties that are not required to be paid to the Trust with respect to the Royalty Interests.
Concurrently with the 2001 Transaction, WPC, Williams, the Trust and Quatro Finale entered into an Agreement dated March 1, 2001 (the “Performance Acknowledgement Agreement”), pursuant to which (i) the parties acknowledged that, although WPC was selling the Underlying Properties to Quatro Finale, WPC retained all of its duties and obligations under the Trust Agreement, Conveyance and related documents (the “Trust Documents”), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the 2001 Transaction Agreement and the agreements entered into pursuant to the 2001 Transaction Agreement, (ii) Williams and WPC each confirmed and agreed that, notwithstanding the sale of the Underlying Properties to Quatro Finale, Williams and WPC would continue to perform their respective obligations to the Trust pursuant to the Trust Documents, including without limitation the performance assurances of Williams set forth in the Conveyance, and (iii) Quatro Finale acknowledged and agreed that it was purchasing the Underlying Properties burdened by the Royalty Interests owned by the Trust. Accordingly, since the inception of the Trust, WPC and Williams have continuously retained and been subject to all of their duties and obligations under the Trust Documents.
The following description contains a summary of the material terms of the Conveyance and is subject to and qualified by the more detailed provisions of the Conveyance, a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
The Underlying Properties
The Royalty Interests were conveyed by WPC to the Trust from its net revenue interest (working interest less lease burdens) in the WI Properties and its net profits interest in the Farmout Properties. Substantially all of the production from the Underlying Properties is from the Fruitland coal formation in the San Juan Basin. The San Juan Basin (the “Basin”), one of the largest gas producing basins in the United States, encompasses approximately 12,000 square miles in northwest New Mexico and southwest Colorado, just east of the common corner of the states of Utah, Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado known as the Four Corners. It covers parts of La Plata and Archuleta counties in Colorado, as well as parts of San Juan, Rio Arriba, McKinley and Sandoval counties in New Mexico. The Basin has been an active area for coal seam gas development within the Fruitland coal formation.
Williams acquired its interests in the Underlying Properties in 1983 through the acquisition of Northwest Pipeline Corporation (“Northwest”), and such Underlying Properties were transferred to WPC on December 31, 1990. Northwest originally owned working interests that were burdened by overriding royalty interests in the Underlying Properties. The overriding royalty interests resulted in excessive burdens and Northwest negotiated settlements with the owners of the overriding royalty interests. Pursuant to one of these settlements, Northwest and Amoco Production Company (now known as “BP”) entered into a joint venture under which Northwest agreed to assign to BP certain oil and gas properties in two exploratory areas, one of which (the PLA-9 properties) comprises the Farmout Properties. In consideration for such assignment, Northwest received an overriding royalty interest in the Farmout Properties. Northwest’s rights under the joint venture agreement were subsequently assigned to WPC, which elected, effective as of October 1, 1992, to convert the overriding royalty interest in the Farmout Properties to a 35 percent net profits interest.
Development of the Fruitland coal formation acreage has resulted in the drilling of 1098 gross coal seam gas wells in the Underlying Properties, 21 of which are producing in the Farmout Properties. WPC owns mineral rights in the Fruitland coal formation under 214 oil and gas leases. Under the terms of these leases, WPC has the right to extract oil and gas from the lease properties. WPC holds either a record title interest, operating right interest or net profits interest in the leases. Record title and operating right interests are commonly referred to as working interests. WPC does not operate any of the coal seam gas wells on the Underlying Properties.
Unitized Areas. Approximately 96 percent of the Fruitland coal formation proved developed coal seam gas wells on the WI Properties are located within the boundaries of New Mexico Federal Units (as defined herein). Pursuant to the Federal Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended, and applicable state regulations, owners of oil and gas leases in New Mexico created large unitized areas consisting of several contiguous sections for the orderly development and conservation of oil and gas reserves. The WI Properties participate in production from the 12 unitized areas in New Mexico referred to in the following table (the “Federal Units”). Operation and development of the Federal Units is governed by unit agreements and unit operating agreements (collectively, the “Unit Agreement”). Under the Unit Agreement and applicable government regulations, the Federal Unit operators request regulatory approval from the New Mexico Commission of Public Lands, the New Mexico Oil Conservation Commission and the Bureau of Land Management to establish or expand participating areas which produce oil and gas in paying quantities from designated formations. The interests of participants in a participating area are based on the surface acreage included in the participating area. Under the terms of the Unit Agreements, the operators, selected by a vote of the respective working interest owners, perform all operating functions.
In all of the Federal Units, participating areas have been formed for the Fruitland coal formation. After the wells capable of producing gas in paying quantities from the Fruitland coal formation are drilled on the undeveloped drill blocks included within a Federal Unit, such wells are added to the participating area if approved in accordance with the appropriate Unit Agreement. A delay of at least 18-36 months is usually incurred after a well is completed and producing before it is added to a participating area. As participating areas are created and expanded, such modification (which will be effective retroactively to the date production commenced from the wells causing such expansion) results in a participant owning undivided interests in all of the producing wells within the participating area. Therefore, WPC’s working interest and net revenue interest in the wells in a Federal Unit or participating area may be modified retroactively, which could affect significantly the amount of NPI Net Proceeds with respect to production since October 1, 1992. If any well(s) that produced or may have produced marketable quantities of coal seam gas prior to 1980 is included in or added to a participating area in which the WI Properties participate, the Conveyance provides that such well(s) will be treated as, and the Trust will own, a separate Net profits interest in such well(s) (the “Pre-80 Production NPI”). The net proceeds for such Pre-80 Production NPI would be calculated in a manner similar to the calculation of Infill Net Proceeds, and the Trust’s share of such net proceeds will be 60 percent.
The following table reflects certain information from the Reserve Report as of December 31, 2007 prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd. dated January 31, 2008 (the “December 31, 2007 Reserve Report”) regarding the Federal Units in which the WI Properties participate. At December 31, 2007, the WI Properties covered 1034 gross (111.38 net) coal seam gas wells with working interests ranging from .8334 percent to 75 percent, with an average working interest of approximately 10.77 percent. The Royalty Interests participate in each Federal Unit and participating area in which the WI Properties participate based on the acreage containing wells with proved reserves on December 31, 2007.
Well Count and Acreage Summary. The following table shows as of December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, the gross and net wells and acreage by proved producing and nonproducing categories for the WI Properties.
Of the total gross wells described above at December 31, 2007, 1,034 gross wells are located in unitized areas. In addition to the above, the Farmout Properties have 21 gross wells.
Properties Outside Unitized Areas. The WI Properties also include interests held by WPC in 66 proved developed Fruitland formation coal seam gas wells held in areas outside of Federal Units that are not reflected in the foregoing table. As of December 31, 2007, WPC’s working interest and net revenue interests in these wells averaged 12.74 percent and 11.74 percent, respectively.
The Farmout Properties consist of a 35 percent Net profits interest on a property farmed out to BP in La Plata County, Colorado. Such properties are not within any Federal Unit boundary. The Farmout Properties are owned, and most of the wells thereon are operated, by BP. Neither Williams, WPC, the Delaware Trustee, the Trustee nor the Unitholders are able to influence or control the operation or future development of the Farmout Properties. WPC has advised the Trustee that it believes that a majority of the production from the Farmout Properties is sold by BP under short-term marketing arrangements at spot market prices. No assurance can be given, however, that BP will not in the future subject production from the Farmout Properties to long-term sales contracts at non-market responsive prices. A portion of the production from the Farmout Properties is gathered by WFS pursuant to a gathering contract at rates and subject to other terms that were negotiated on an arms-length basis. As of December 31, 2007, 22 gross wells had been drilled on the Farmout Properties. For a further description of the Farmout Properties, see “- The NPI.”
The NPI
The NPI generally entitles the Trust to receive 60 percent (permanently reduced from 81 percent as described under “-The NPI Percentage Reduction” below) of the NPI Net Proceeds. NPI Net Proceeds consists generally of the aggregate proceeds attributable to (i) WPC’s net revenue interest based on the sale at the Wellhead of gas produced from the WI Properties and (ii) the revenue stream received by WPC from its 35 percent Net profits interest in the Farmout Properties, less (a) WPC’s working interest share of property and production taxes on the WI Properties; (b) WPC’s working interest share of actual operating costs on the WI Properties to the extent in excess of those agreed to be paid by WPC as described herein; (c) WPC’s working interest share of capital costs on the WI Properties to the extent in excess of those agreed to be paid by WPC as described herein; and (d) interest on the unrecovered portion, if any, of the foregoing costs at Citibank’s Base Rate.
Most of the wells reflected in the December 31, 2007 Reserve Report were drilled prior to 1994. Significant additional capital expenditures were not incurred during the early years of the production lives of such wells, and it is not anticipated that further significant capital expenditures will be incurred. Consequently, the December 31, 2007 Reserve Report was prepared on the basis that there will be no capital expenditures borne by the Royalty Interests for non-infill wells. Nevertheless, the operators and working interest owners of the wells could elect at any time to implement measures to increase the producible reserves. These measures, if implemented, could involve additional compression or enhanced or secondary recovery operations requiring substantial capital expenditures that would be proportionately borne by the Royalty Interests.
Exhibit B to the Conveyance reflects estimated annual operating expenses for wells on the WI Properties. No operating expenses in respect of the WI Properties will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds except when the actual cumulative operating expenses attributable to WPC’s working interests in the WI Properties exceed the estimated cumulative operating expenses reflected in Exhibit B to the Conveyance as of the close of a calendar quarter (less the estimated operating costs in such Exhibit that are allocable to two wells that were repurchased effective as of January 1, 1994, by WPC as a purchase price adjustment or to any wells that are reconveyed to WPC as uneconomic). The amount by which such actual cumulative operating expenses exceed estimated cumulative operating expenses reflected in such Exhibit will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds and, therefore, will reduce the amounts payable to the Trust.
If, during any period, costs and expenses deductible in calculating the NPI Net Proceeds exceed gross proceeds, neither the Trust nor Unitholders will be liable for such excess, but the Trust will receive no payments for distribution to Unitholders with respect to the NPI until future gross proceeds exceed future costs and expenses plus the cumulative excess of such costs and expenses plus interest thereon at Citibank’s Base Rate. However, if the excess costs are the result of capital costs incurred for enhanced recovery or similar operations on the WI Properties, the Trust will receive no less than 20 percent of the NPI Net Proceeds (calculated before such capital costs are deducted) until such excess costs plus interest thereon at Citibank’s Base Rate are recovered by WPC unless such capital costs are $3,000,000 or more, in which event the Trust will only receive payments equal to the administrative costs of the Trust until such unrecovered costs plus interest thereon at Citibank’s Base Rate are less than $3,000,000.
The calculation of NPI Net Proceeds includes amounts received by WPC in respect of its 35 percent net profits interest in the Farmout Properties. WPC’s net profits interest in the Farmout Properties is calculated on a total operations basis and is defined as lease revenues less burdens, operating expenses (including overhead as defined in the applicable operating agreement) and all taxes related to the value of reserves, production, property and equipment (e.g., severance and ad valorem taxes).
WPC has advised the Trustee that the majority of the coal seam gas from the Farmout Properties is sold by BP under short-term marketing arrangements at spot market prices and the remainder is marketed by the other operators of the wells in the Farmout Properties. Neither the Gas Purchase Contract nor the Gas Gathering Contract covers the volumes produced from the Farmout Properties.
Reserve Report
The following table summarizes net proved reserves estimated as of December 31, 2007, and certain related information for the Royalty Interests and Underlying Properties from the December 31, 2007 Reserve Report
prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers. A summary of the December 31, 2007 Reserve Report is filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. See Note 9 to “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Financial Statements” for additional information regarding the net proved reserves of the Trust.
A Net profits interest does not entitle the Trust to a specific quantity of gas but to a portion of the net proceeds derived therefrom. Ordinarily, and in the case of the Farmout Properties, proved reserves attributable to a Net profits interest are calculated by deducting an amount of gas sufficient, if sold at the prices used in preparing the reserve estimates for such net profits interest, to pay the future estimated costs and expenses deducted in the calculation of the net proceeds of such interest. Because WPC has agreed to pay certain operating and capital costs with respect to the WI Properties, no amount of gas in respect of such costs has been deducted from the amount of reserves attributable to the WI Properties in determining the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. Accordingly, the reserves presented for the Royalty Interests reflect quantities of gas that are free of future costs and expenses (other than production, severance and ad valorem taxes in respect of the WI Properties) if the price and cost assumptions set forth in the December 31, 2007 Reserve Report occur. The December 31, 2007 Reserve Report was prepared in accordance with criteria established by the SEC and, accordingly, is based upon a contractual price to the Trust for gas for December 2007, of $4.215 per MMBtu before transportation charges through 2012. The December 31, 2007 Reserve Report is also based on the percentage share of NPI Net Proceeds payable to the Trust continuing at 60 percent for the remaining life of the reserves. Beginning in year 2013, after which the contract will no longer be in effect, the gas price to the former Trust interest is $6.430 per MMBtu, based on December 31, 2007 Blanco Hub Index Price. Gathering and transportation charges, taxes, treating, and other costs payable prior to the delivery points were deducted from the index price in order to determine the wellhead price used in this evaluation. These prices and deductions were held constant.
(a)
Although the prices utilized in preparing the estimates in this table are in accordance with criteria established by the SEC, such prices were influenced by seasonal demand for natural gas and other factors and may not be the most representative prices for estimating future net revenues or related reserve data.
(b)
The gas reserves were estimated by Miller and Lents, Ltd. by applying decline curve analyses utilizing type curves for the various areas in the Basin. The bases for the consideration of type curves are the production histories, the water and gas production rates and the initial reservoir pressures of the wells in the separate areas.
(c)
Estimated future net revenues are defined as the total revenues attributable to the Underlying Properties and Royalty Interests less applicable royalties, severance and ad valorem taxes, operating costs and future capital expenditures. Overhead costs (beyond the standard overhead charges for the nonoperated properties) have not been included, nor have the effects of depreciation, depletion and Federal income tax. Estimated future net revenues and discounted estimated future net revenues are not intended and should not be interpreted as representing the fair market value for the estimated reserves.
There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The reserve data set forth herein, although prepared by independent petroleum engineers in a manner customary in the industry, are estimates only, and actual quantities and values of natural gas are likely to differ from the estimated amounts set forth herein. In addition, the reserve estimates for the Royalty Interests will be affected by future changes in sales prices for natural gas produced and costs that are deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds and Infill Net Proceeds. Further, the discounted present values shown herein were prepared using guidelines established by the SEC for disclosure of reserves and should not be considered representative of the market value of such reserves or the Units. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
Information concerning historical changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties, and the calculation of the standardized measure of discounted future net revenues related thereto, are contained in Note 9 to “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Financial Statements.” Williams has not filed reserve estimates covering the Underlying Properties with any Federal authority or agency other than the SEC.
Historical Gas Sales Prices and Production
The following table sets forth the actual net production volumes attributed from the WI Properties, weighted average lifting costs and information regarding historical gas sales prices for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
The published Blanco Hub Spot Price for December 2007 was $6.430 per MMBtu. Information regarding average wellhead sales prices for production from the Farmout Properties is not available to WPC, although WPC has advised the Trustee that it believes production from such properties is currently sold by BP under short-term marketing arrangements at spot market prices. While Williams may, from time to time, enter into hedge instruments to manage their price risk associated with natural gas production from the Underlying Properties, the effects of any such hedge instruments are not used in the determination of the Trust’s royalty income attributable from the Net profits interest in the Underlying Properties. The Trust does not engage in any hedging activities to manage its price risk associated with natural gas production from the Underlying Properties. Production attributed to the Farmout Properties (in MMcf) was 1,395, 1,694, and 1,849 in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.
NPI Percentage Reduction
Prior to 2001, the NPI generally entitled the Trust to receive 81 percent of the NPI Net Proceeds. However, under the terms of the Conveyance, at the point that (i) cumulative gas production since October 1, 1992, from the Underlying Properties has exceeded 178.5 Bcf and (ii) the internal rate of return of the “Aftertax Cash flow per Unit” (as defined below) has equaled or exceeded 12 percent, the percentage of NPI Net Proceeds payable to the Trust in respect of the NPI is automatically and permanently reduced to 60 percent. In such event, WPC’s retained percentage of NPI Net Proceeds is correspondingly increased from 19 percent to 40 percent. For purposes hereof, “Aftertax Cash Flow per Unit” is equal to the sum of the following amounts that a hypothetical purchaser of a Unit in the Public Offering would have received or been allocated if such Unit were held through the date of such determination: (a) total cash distributions per Unit plus (b) total tax credits available per Unit under Section 29 of the IRC less (c) the net taxes payable per Unit (assuming a Federal income tax rate of 31 percent, which at the time of the formation of the Trust was the highest Federal income tax rate applicable to individuals). IRR is the annual discount rate (compounded quarterly) that equates the present value of the Aftertax Cash Flow per Unit to the initial price to the public of the Units in the Public Offering (which was $20.00 per Unit).
Cumulative production since October 1, 1992, from the Underlying Properties has been in excess of 178.5 Bcf since 1999. The 12 percent internal rate of return of Aftertax Cash Flow per Unit was reached in the fourth quarter of 2000. Consequently, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000, the percentage of NPI Net Proceeds the Trust is entitled to receive under the NPI was permanently reduced from 81 percent to 60 percent. WPC’s retained percentage of NPI Net proceeds was correspondingly increased from 19 percent to 40 percent.
Gas Purchase Contract
Under the terms of the Gas Purchase Contract, WPX Gas Resources (as successor in interest to WGM) purchased the natural gas produced from the WI Properties (except for certain small volumes) at the Wellhead. The Gas Purchase Contract commenced October 1, 1992, and expires on the termination of the Trust. The Gas Purchase Contract provides for a pricing mechanism during an initial 5-year period (“Primary Term”), which expired on December 31, 1997. Following the expiration of the Primary Term, the pricing mechanism continues for one or more consecutive additional one-year terms (each such term a “Contract Year”) unless and until WPX Gas Resources exercises its annual option, exercisable 15 days prior to the end of each Contract Year, to discontinue purchasing gas from WPC under the pricing provision of the Gas Purchase Contract and instead purchase gas at a monthly price equal to the “Index Price” as described hereafter. For each of the Contract Years 2005, 2006 and 2007, WPX Gas Resources did not exercise this option and therefore the pricing mechanism of the Primary Term remained in effect for each of those past years and will continue to remain in effect through at least December 31, 2008. Under this mechanism, the monthly price to be paid by WPX Gas Resources for natural gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract shall be (a) the $1.70 Minimum Purchase Price, less (b) any costs paid by WPX Gas Resources to gather, treat and process the gas and deliver it to specified delivery points and plus (c) under certain circumstances, additional amounts determined as described below:
(i) If the Index Price (as defined below) in any month during any Contract Year, including 2008, is greater than $1.94 per MMBtu, then WPX Gas Resources will pay WPC an amount for gas purchased equal to $1.94 per MMBtu, less the costs paid by WPX Gas Resources to gather and process such gas and deliver it to specified delivery points, plus 50 percent of the excess of the Index Price over $1.94 per MMBtu (the “Price Differential”), provided WPX Gas Resources has no accrued Price Credits (as defined below) in the Price Credit Account (as defined below). If WPX Gas Resources has accrued Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, then WPX Gas Resources will be entitled to reduce the amount in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price (before deducting gathering and processing costs and costs to deliver the gas to specified delivery points) that otherwise would be payable by any accrued and unrecouped Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, and WPX Gas Resources will not be obligated to pay WPC any amounts in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price until such time as all accrued Price Credits have been recouped and a zero balance exists in the Price Credit Account.
(ii) If the Index Price in any month during any Contract Year, including 2008, is greater than the Minimum Purchase Price but less than or equal to $1.94 per MMBtu, then WPX Gas Resources will pay WPC an amount for each MMBtu purchased equal to the Index Price less the costs paid by WPX Gas Resources to gather and process such gas and deliver it to specified delivery points, provided WPX Gas Resources has no accrued Price Credits in the Price Credit Account. If WPX Gas Resources has accrued Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, then WPX Gas Resources will be entitled to reduce the amount in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price (before deducting, gathering and processing costs and costs to deliver to specified delivery points) that otherwise would be payable by any accrued and unrecouped Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, and WPX Gas Resources will not be obligated to pay WPC any amounts in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price until such time as all accrued Price Credits have been recouped and a zero balance exists in the Price Credit Account.
(iii) If the Index Price in any month during any Contract Year, including 2008, is less than the Minimum Purchase Price, then WPX Gas Resources will pay for each MMBtu of gas purchased the Minimum Purchase Price less the costs paid by WPX Gas Resources to gather and process such gas and deliver it at specified delivery points, and WPX Gas Resources will receive a credit (the “Price Credit”) from WPC for each MMBtu of gas purchased by WPX Gas Resources equal to the difference between the Minimum Purchase Price and the Index Price. WPC is required to establish and maintain the Price Credit Account containing the accrued and unrecouped amount of such Price Credits. No Price Credits were accrued in respect of production purchased by WPX Gas Resources prior to January 1, 1994.
For the year ended December 31, 2007, which is based on production volumes and natural gas prices for the twelve months ended September 30, 2007, the Index Price exceeded the Minimum Purchase Price for each month during the year. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no remaining unrecouped Price Credits in the Price Credit Account.
To the extent there may in the future be a balance in the Price Credit Account, the entitlement to recoup Price Credits means that if and when the Index Price is above the Minimum Purchase Price, future royalty income paid to the Trust would be reduced until such time as such Price Credits have been fully recouped. Corresponding cash distributions to Unitholders would also be reduced.
Subsequent to the expiration of the Primary Term of the pricing provision of the Gas Purchase Contract, which occurred on December 31, 1997, WPX Gas Resources has an annual option (which can be exercised only once during the term of the Gas Purchase Contract) to discontinue purchasing gas under the pricing provision of the Gas Purchase Contract by giving written notice of its election to pay solely the Index Price (less the costs paid by WPX Gas Resources to gather, treat and process such gas and deliver it to specified points). If WPX Gas Resources so elects to discontinue paying under the pricing provision, WPX Gas Resources will no longer be entitled to retain the Price Differential when the Index Price exceeds $1.94 per MMBtu and any accrued and unrecouped Price Credits will be extinguished. Since there is no published price in the San Juan Basin for wellhead deliveries, the wellhead price in the Gas Purchase Contract is determined by utilizing a published price that is inclusive of gathering, treating and processing costs. As used in this “Item 2. Properties - Reserve Report,” “Index Price” means 97 percent of the first of month El Paso Natural Gas Co. - San Juan Spot Price. The El Paso Natural Gas Co. - San Juan Spot Price is a posted index price per MMBtu (dry basis) published in Inside F.E.R.C.’s Gas Market Report, which is a bi-monthly publication by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. The Gas Purchase Contract provides WPX Gas Resources a one-time option to convert the Index Price from the first of month posting of El Paso Natural Gas Co. - San Juan Spot Price to the average of the bi-monthly postings for that same index. The Gas Purchase Contract further provides for an alternative indexing mechanism in the event the Inside F.E.R.C.’s Gas Market Report indices are modified or discontinued. All prices used as index prices are delivered prices at the specified point of delivery and are, therefore, before deducting gathering and/or transportation charges, taxes, treating costs or other costs payable prior to the delivery points. During periods when there is a Price Differential, WPX Gas Resources will absorb a portion of the gathering charges based on a formula specified within the Gas Purchase Contract.
A small volume of gas produced from the WI Properties (less than 5 percent) is sold by the operators of certain wells under gas purchase contracts with other buyers.
The prices paid to WPC pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract are prices payable for the value of gas purchased for production at the Wellhead. Title to the gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract passes to WPX Gas Resources at the Wellhead. WPX Gas Resources is responsible for gathering, treating, processing and marketing all gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract. Approximately 90 percent of the production from the WI Properties is gathered by WPX on behalf of WPX Gas Resources. The balance of the production is gathered on behalf of WPX Gas Resources by third parties. See “-Gas Gathering Contract.” The price paid to WPC pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract is after deducting the costs incurred by WPX Gas Resources to gather, treat and process such gas (including costs incurred by WPX Gas Resources under the Gas Gathering Contract). Payments to WPC for gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract are made by WPX Gas Resources on or before the last day of the first calendar month next following the end of each calendar quarter.
NPI Net Proceeds and Infill Net Proceeds are calculated on an entitlements or entitled volume basis, whereby the aggregate proceeds from the sale of gas under applicable gas sales contracts (excluding production from the Farmout Properties) are determined by WPC as if WPC had produced and sold its working interest share of production from the WI Properties, even if the actual volumes delivered to and sold by WPC are different than the entitlement volumes. The effect of such an “entitlements basis” calculation is that NPI Net Proceeds or Infill Net Proceeds and, therefore, the amount thereof paid to the Trust, may include amounts in respect of production not taken by WPC because of a so-called imbalance (that is, where a working interest owner is delivered more or less than the actual share of production to which it is entitled).
The Gas Purchase Contract may not be amended in a manner that would materially adversely affect the revenues to the Trust without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Units present or represented at a meeting of Unitholders at which a quorum (consisting of a majority of the outstanding Units) is present or represented. As noted elsewhere herein, the Units held by Williams (or an affiliate) immediately after the Public Offering may not be voted on any such amendment nor will such Units be counted for quorum purposes so long as such Units are held by Williams (or an affiliate). A copy of the Gas Purchase Contract is filed as an exhibit to this
Form 10-K. The foregoing summary of the material provisions of the Gas Purchase Contract is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of such agreement as set forth in such exhibit.
Gas Gathering Contract
In accordance with the Confirmation Agreement, effective May 1, 1995, WGM assigned to WPX Gas Resources all of its right, title, interest, duties and obligations under the Gas Gathering Contract, and WPX Gas Resources assumed all of WGM’s right, title, interest, duties and obligations thereunder.
The Gas Gathering Contract, which will be in effect until December 31, 2022, subject to annual extensions thereafter, covers approximately 90 percent of the production from the WI Properties and commits WFS on behalf of WPX Gas Resources to gather such production (except production from 19 wells in the San Juan 29-7 unit as described below), at rates starting at $.35 per Mcf (plus a fuel reimbursement estimated to be 6.2 percent to 7.3 percent of gathered volumes on a Btu equivalent basis, and subject to increase if the CO2 content of the gas exceeds 10 percent) and adjusted annually based on average annual price comparisons determined on the basis of the Blanco Hub Spot Price, provided that the gathering rate will be no less than $.35 per Mcf (currently 1.046/Mcf) increased or decreased on the basis of an increase or decrease in a published index measuring the gross domestic product. A significant portion of the gas to be gathered pursuant to the Gas Gathering Contract must first be gathered from the Wellhead to a Federal Unit central delivery point by TEPPCO Partners, L.P. (“TEPPCO”). WPX Gas Resources has been assigned a one-year gathering contract (with a monthly evergreen provision) whereby TEPPCO provides interruptible gathering service at the price of $.44 per Mcf, which escalates annually at $0.015 per year, plus actual fuel used (historically averaging approximately 7 percent). It is anticipated that WPX Gas Resources will be able to extend the term of this agreement.
The remainder of the production on the WI Properties is not physically connected to the WFS system and is not covered by the Gas Gathering Contract. This gas is gathered either by Burlington Resources Gathering Inc. (“Burlington”) or El Paso Field Services (“EFS”) for delivery at the Blanco Hub or by WFS for delivery at the outlet of the Ignacio Plant in La Plata County, Colorado. WPC has existing long-term gathering agreements with EFS and short-term gathering agreements with Burlington with rates and terms generally comparable to the Gas Gathering Contract.
The Gas Gathering Contract may not be amended in a manner that would materially adversely affect the revenues to the Trust without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Units present or represented at a meeting of Unitholders at which a quorum (consisting of a majority of the outstanding Units) is present or represented. As noted elsewhere herein, the Units held by Williams (or an affiliate) immediately after the Public Offering may not be voted on any such amendment nor will such Units be counted for quorum purposes so long as such Units are held by Williams (or an affiliate).
The Gas Gathering Contract was twice amended, each effective as of October 1, 1993, with respect to 19 wells located in the San Juan 29-7 unit. WFS is obligated to gather production from such wells at a rate of $.36 per Mcf (plus a fuel reimbursement of 5.5 percent of the gas received at the Wellhead Receipt Points (as defined)), fixed for a 10-year term. In connection with these amendments to the Gas Gathering Contract, the Trustee received an opinion of counsel to Williams that such amendments need not be submitted for approval by vote of the Unitholders.
The Gas Gathering Contract was further amended effective as of April 1, 1997, for the purpose of increasing the field rights held by the Trust on the Manzanares gathering system. The increase accommodates incremental gas flow that will occur due to WFS’s expansion and enhancement of gathering facilities.
A copy of the Gas Gathering Contract and each amendment thereto are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K. The foregoing summary of the material provisions of the Gas Gathering Contract is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of such agreement as set forth in such exhibit.
Federal and Indian Lands
Approximately 80 percent of the Underlying Properties are burdened by Royalty Interests held by the Federal government or the Southern Ute Indian Tribe. Royalty payments due to the U.S. Government for gas produced from Federal and Indian lands included in the Underlying Properties must be calculated in conformance with its interpretation of regulations issued by the Minerals Management Service (“MMS”), a subagency of the U.S. Department of the Interior that administers and receives revenues from Federal and Indian royalties on behalf of the U.S. Government and as agent for the Indian tribes. The MMS regulations cover both valuation standards, which establish the basis for placing a value on production, and cost allowances, which define those post-production costs that are deductible by the lessee.
Where gas is sold by a lessee to a marketing affiliate, such as WPX Gas Resources, the MMS regulations essentially ignore the lessee-affiliate transaction and consider the arm’s-length sale by the affiliate as the point of valuation for royalty purposes. Accordingly, WPC is required to calculate royalty payments based on the price WPX Gas Resources receives when it markets the gas production (“Resale Price”), notwithstanding the price payable by WPX Gas Resources to WPC pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract. With respect to the Farmout Properties, BP pays royalties based on the price it receives for production from such properties as long as the gas is purchased by nonaffiliates. The NPI Net Proceeds, a portion of which is payable to the Trust, reflects the deduction of all royalty and overriding royalty burdens. The ratio of royalties paid on Federal and Indian lands to the NPI Net Proceeds increases as the Resale Price exceeds the price under the Gas Purchase Contract.
The MMS regulations permit a lessee to deduct from its gross proceeds its reasonable actual costs of transportation and processing to transport the gas from the lease to the point of sale in calculating the market value of its production. Although WPX Gas Resources deducts the gathering charges paid by it to WFS, Burlington, EFS and Northwest in calculating the wellhead price it pays to WPC, the MMS could disallow the deduction of some portion of the gathering charges after review of such charges on audit of WPC’s royalty as discussed below. If some portion of the gathering charges is disallowed, the MMS will likely demand additional royalties plus interest on the amount of the underpayment.
The MMS generally audits royalty payments within a 6-year period. Although WPC calculates royalty payments in accordance with its interpretation of the then applicable MMS regulations, WPC does not know whether the royalty payments made to the U.S. Government are totally in conformity with MMS standards until the payments are audited. If an MMS audit, or any other audit by a Federal or state agency, results in additional royalty charges, together with interest, relating to production since October 1, 1992, in respect of the Underlying Properties, such charges and interest will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds for the quarter in which the charges are billed and in each quarter thereafter until the full amount of the additional royalty charges and interest have been recovered.
Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties
WPC (and any transferees) has the right to abandon any well or working interest included in the Underlying Properties if, in its opinion, such well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. Since WPC does not operate any of the wells on the Underlying Properties, WPC does not normally control the timing of plugging and abandoning wells. The Conveyance provides that WPC’s working interest share of the costs of plugging and abandoning uneconomic wells will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds.
WPC may sell the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests, without the consent of Unitholders. Under the Trust Agreement, WPC has certain rights (but not obligations) to purchase the Royalty Interests upon termination of the Trust. See “Item 1 - Description of the Trust-Termination and Liquidation of the Trust.”
WPC has retained the right to repurchase from the Trust, commencing January 1, 2003, any portion of the NPI conveyed to the Trust if WPC’s interest in the Underlying Properties burdened by such portion of the NPI ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities (ignoring for purposes of such determination the NPI and Infill NPI). The purchase price payable by WPC will be the fair market value at the date
of repurchase of the portion of the NPI or Infill NPI so purchased, as established on the basis of an appraisal provided by an independent expert.
The Infill Wells
The only assets of the Trust, other than cash and cash equivalents being held for the payment of expenses and liabilities and for distribution to Unitholders, are the Royalty Interests. The Royalty Interests consist primarily of a net profits interest (the “NPI”) in the Underlying Properties. The NPI generally entitles the Trust to receive 60 percent of the NPI Net Proceeds attributable to (i) gas produced and sold from WPC’s net revenue interests (working interests less lease burdens) in the properties in which WPC has a working interest (the “WI Properties”) and (ii) the revenue stream received by WPC attributable to its 35 percent net profits interest in 5,348 gross acres in La Plata County, Colorado (the “Farmout Properties”).
The Royalty Interests also include a 20 percent interest in WPC’s Infill Net Proceeds from the sale of production if well spacing rules are effectively modified and additional wells are drilled on producing drilling blocks on the WI Properties (the “Infill Wells”) during the term of the Trust. “Infill Net Proceeds” consists generally of the aggregate proceeds, based on the price at the wellhead, of gas produced from WPC’s net revenue interest in any Infill Wells less certain taxes and costs.
On October 15, 2002 the New Mexico Oil and Gas Commission (NMOCD) revised the field rules for the Basin Fruitland Coal (Gas) Pool to allow an optional second (infill) well on the standard 320-acre spacing unit in certain designated areas of the pool (the non-fairway wells). On July 17, 2003 the NMOCD further modified the field rules for the Basin Fruitland Coal (Gas) Pool to allow these infill wells on the standard 320-acre spacing unit in all areas of the pool. The WI Properties contain 500 infill locations designated as proved locations according to SEC guidelines. As of December 31, 2007, 428 infill locations are proved developed producing and 72 locations are proved undeveloped.
As of December 31, 2007, WPC has informed the Trustee that its estimate is that the Infill Net Profit Costs exceeded the Infill Net Profit Gross Proceeds by approximately $2,100,000. The Trust will not be liable for such excess costs, and such excess costs will hereafter constitute Excess Infill Net Profit Costs until recovered by WPC. The Trust will not receive its 20 percent interest in WPC’s Infill Net Proceeds until such time as the Infill Net Profits Gross Proceeds exceeds the Infill Net Profit Costs on an aggregate basis.
The complete definitions of Infill Net Profit Costs, Infill Net Profit Gross Proceeds, Excess Infill Net Profit Costs, NPI Net Proceeds and Infill Net Proceeds are set forth in the Conveyance.
Royalty Trust Reserves
The reserves for the Royalty Trust were determined by Miller and Lents, Ltd in accordance with SEC guidelines. As of December 31, 2007, total proved reserves were 22,080 MMcf, consisting of 21,601 MMcf proved developed producing and 479 MMcf proved undeveloped.
As of December 31, 2007 total proved reserves for the 320-acre spaced wells in the Working Interest Properties were 16,004 MMcf, consisting of 16,001 MMcf proved developed producing and 3 MMcf proved undeveloped.
As of December 31, 2007 total proved reserves for the infill wells in the Working Interest Properties were 2,525 MMcf, consisting of reserves of 2,049 MMcf proved developed producing and 476 MMcf proved undeveloped.
As of December 31, 2007, total proved reserves for the Farmout Properties were 3,551 MMcf, all of these reserves are proved developed producing.
Williams’ Performance Assurances
Pursuant to the Conveyance and the Performance Acknowledgement Agreement, Williams has agreed to pay each of the following when due and payable: (i) all liabilities and operating and capital expenses that WPC is required under the Conveyance to pay as owner of the Underlying Properties, including without limitation WPC’s obligation to pay operating expenses in respect of the WI Properties up to the cumulative amounts specified in Exhibit B to the Conveyance and the capital costs incurred in respect of the WI Properties to the extent specified in the Conveyance, including amounts that WPC is obligated to pay with respect to environmental liabilities; (ii) all NPI Net Proceeds, Infill Net Proceeds and other amounts that WPC is obligated to pay to the Trust under the Conveyance, including amounts that WPC is obligated to pay with respect to environmental liability; and (iii) any proceeds from a sale of any remaining Royalty Interests that WPC may elect to purchase upon termination of the Trust ((i) through (iii) collectively, the “WPC Payment Obligations”). Williams has also agreed, to the extent not paid by WPX Gas Resources when due and payable, to pay all amounts that WPX Gas Resources is required to pay to WPC in respect of production attributable to the Royalty Interests pursuant to the terms of the Gas Purchase Contract between WPC and WPX Gas Resources (the “WPX Gas Resources Payment Obligations”). In the Confirmation Agreement, Williams expressly confirmed that its agreement to cause the WPX Gas Resources Payment Obligations to be paid in full when due shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the assignments by WGM of the Gas Purchase Contract and the Gas Gathering Contract.
In the event and to the extent that WPC does not pay any of the WPC Payment Obligations in full when due and, in the event and to the extent that WPX Gas Resources does not pay any of the WFS Gas Resources Payment Obligations in full when due, the Trustee (but not Unitholders) is entitled, following notice to Williams and demand for payment by the Trustee and after a 10-day cure period, to enforce payment by Williams. Williams’ assurance obligations terminate upon the earlier of (i) dissolution of the Trust; (ii) with respect to the WPC Payment Obligations, upon sale or other transfer by WPC of all or substantially all of the Underlying Properties; (iii) with respect to the WPC Payment Obligations, upon one or more sales or other transfers of a majority or more of Williams’ ownership interests in WPC; and (iv) with respect to the WPX Gas Resources Payment Obligations, upon one or more sales or other transfers of a majority or more of Williams’ ownership interests in WPX Gas Resources; provided that, with respect to (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, only if the transferee has, at the time of transfer, a rating assigned to outstanding unsecured long-term debt from Moody’s Investor Services of at least Baa3 or from Standard & Poor’s Corporation of at least BBB (or an equivalent rating from at least one nationally-recognized statistical rating organization), or such transferee is approved by holders of a majority of outstanding Units, and in any case, the transferee unconditionally agrees in writing, to assume and be bound by Williams’ remaining assurance obligations.
Title to Properties
Williams has advised the Trustee that it believes that WPC’s title to the Underlying Properties, and the Trust’s title to the Royalty Interests, are good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the gas industry, subject to exceptions that, in the opinion of Williams, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such Underlying Properties or Royalty Interests. As is customary in the gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination is performed as a lease is acquired, except leases covering proved reserves. Generally, prior to drilling a well, a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant title defects, if any, before proceeding with operations. However, except for the sale and repurchase of the Underlying Properties from Quatro Finale, WPC (or its predecessor) has owned the leases covering the Underlying Properties since 1974, and conventional gas has been produced from formations other than the Fruitland formation covered by all of the leases since the 1950s. Under these circumstances, WPC conducted an internal review of its title records prior to the drilling of the coal seam gas wells within the 12 Federal Units but did not conduct title examinations. In addition to its internal review, WPC, when requested by the operator, participated in title examinations prior to the drilling of a few coal seam gas wells located outside the Federal Units.
The Underlying Properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following: (i) royalties and other burdens and obligations, expressed and implied, under gas leases; (ii) overriding royalties and other burdens created by WPC or its predecessors in title; (iii) a variety of contractual obligations (including, in some cases, development obligations) arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales
contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles; (iv) liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements; (v) pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; and (vi) easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property. To the extent that such burdens and obligations affect WPC’s rights to production and the value of production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust’s interests and in estimating the size and value of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. Except as noted below, Williams believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the Underlying Properties and Royalty Interests are conventional in the industry for similar properties, do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the Underlying Properties and will not materially and adversely affect the value of the Royalty Interests.
Although the matter is not entirely free from doubt, Williams has advised the Trustee that it believes (based upon the opinions of local counsel to WPC with respect to matters of Colorado law and New Mexico law) that the Royalty Interests should constitute real property interests under applicable state law. Consistent therewith, the Conveyance states that the Royalty Interests constitute real property interests and it was recorded in the appropriate real property records of Colorado and New Mexico, the states in which the Underlying Properties are located, in accordance with local recordation provisions. If, during the term of the Trust, WPC becomes involved as a debtor in bankruptcy proceedings, it is not entirely clear that all of the Royalty Interests would be treated as real property interests under the laws of Colorado and New Mexico. If in such a proceeding a determination were made that the Royalty Interests constitute real property interests, the Royalty Interests should be unaffected in any material respect by such bankruptcy proceeding. If in such a proceeding a determination were made that a Royalty Interest constitutes an executory contract (a term used, but not defined, in the United States Bankruptcy Code to refer to a contract under which the obligations of both the debtor and the other party to such contract are so unsatisfied that the failure of either to complete performance would constitute a material breach excusing performance by the other) and not a real property interest under applicable state law, and if such contract were not to be assumed in a bankruptcy proceeding involving WPC, the Trust would be treated as an unsecured creditor of WPC with respect to such Royalty Interest in the pending bankruptcy. Although no assurance is given, Williams has advised the Trustee that it does not believe that the Royalty Interests should be subject to rejection in a bankruptcy proceeding as executory contracts.
Item 3.