ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
THE ROYALTY INTERESTS
The Royalty Interests conveyed to the Trust consist of net profits interests in the Underlying Properties. The Royalty Interests were conveyed to the Trust by means of a single instrument of conveyance. The Conveyance was recorded in the appropriate real property records in each county in New Mexico and Colorado where the Underlying Properties are located so as to give notice of the Royalty Interests to creditors and transferees, who would take an interest in the Underlying Properties subject to the Royalty Interests. The Conveyance was intended to convey the Royalty Interests as real property interests under applicable state law.
On May 7, 1997, effective as of May 1, 1997, WPC transferred the Underlying Properties to Quattro Finale LLC, an unaffiliated third party ("Buyer"), pursuant to the terms of a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of May 1, 1997 (the "Transaction Agreement") between WPC and Buyer (the "Transaction"). Prior to the Transaction, WPC had owned the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests owned by the Trust, since the inception of the Trust. Neither the Trustee nor the Delaware Trustee has any control over or responsibility relating to the operation of the Underlying Properties. The Transaction was described in more detail in the Trust's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 23, 1997 (the "Transaction Form 8-K").
Concurrently with the Transaction, WPC and Buyer entered into a Management Services Agreement dated May 1, 1997 (the "Transaction MS Agreement") whereby WPC agreed, among other things, to continue to manage and operate the Underlying Properties and to handle the receipt and payment of funds with respect thereto. Prior to the Transaction, WPC received all payments relating to the Underlying Properties and, pursuant to the Conveyance, paid to the Trust the portion thereof attributable to the Royalty Interests. Following the Transaction, under the Management Services Agreement WPC continues to collect all revenues on behalf of Buyer and remains obligated to pay to the Trust on behalf of Buyer the amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests.
Under the Conveyance, the amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests are computed with respect to each calendar quarter ending prior to termination of the Trust, and such amounts are to be paid to the Trust not later than the last day of the calendar month next following the end of each calendar quarter. The amount paid to the Trust does not include interest on any amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests that are held by WPC prior to payment to the Trust. WPC is entitled to retain any amounts attributable to the Underlying Properties that are not required to be paid to the Trust with respect to the Royalty Interests.
Concurrently with the Transaction, WPC, Williams, the Trust and Buyer entered into an Agreement dated May 7, 1997 pursuant to which (i) the parties acknowledged that, although WPC was selling the Underlying Properties to Buyer, WPC retained all of its duties and obligations under the Trust Agreement, Conveyance and related documents (the "Trust Documents"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Transaction Agreement and the agreements entered into pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, (ii) Williams and WPC each confirmed and agreed that, notwithstanding the sale of the Underlying Properties to Buyer, Williams and WPC would continue to perform their respective obligations to the Trust pursuant to the Trust Documents, including without limitation the performance assurances of Williams set forth in the Conveyance, and (iii) Buyer acknowledged and agreed that it was purchasing the Underlying Properties burdened by the Royalty Interests owned by the Trust.
As a result of these assurances and the Trustee's belief that the Transaction will have no adverse effect on Unitholders, the information and descriptions set forth herein give no effect to the Transaction. Consequently, with regard to ownership of the Underlying Properties and where otherwise dictated by context, references herein to "WPC" with respect to those periods after the effective date of the Transaction are to Buyer. The Transaction Form 8-K should be consulted for further information on the Transaction.
The following description contains a summary of the material terms of the Conveyance and is subject to and qualified by the more detailed provisions of the Conveyance, a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
THE UNDERLYING PROPERTIES
The Royalty Interests were conveyed by WPC to the Trust from its net revenue interest (working interest less lease burdens) in the WI Properties and its net profits interest in the Farmout Properties. Substantially all of the production from the Underlying Properties is from the Fruitland coal formation in the San Juan Basin. The San Juan Basin (the "Basin"), one of the largest gas producing basins in the United States, encompasses approximately 12,000 square miles in northwest New Mexico and southwest Colorado, just east of the common corner of the states of Utah, Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado known as the Four Corners. It covers parts of La Plata and Archuleta counties in Colorado, as well as parts of San Juan, Rio Arriba, McKinley and Sandoval counties in New Mexico. The Basin has been an active area for coal seam gas development with the Fruitland coal formation.
Williams acquired the Underlying Properties in 1983 through the acquisition of Northwest Pipeline Corporation ("Northwest"), and such Underlying Properties were transferred to WPC on December 31, 1990. Northwest originally owned working interests which were burdened by overriding royalty interests in the Underlying Properties. The overriding royalty interests resulted in excessive burdens and Northwest negotiated settlements with the owners of the overriding royalty interests. Pursuant to one of these settlements, Northwest and Amoco Production Company ("Amoco") entered into a joint venture under which Northwest agreed to assign to Amoco certain oil and gas properties in two exploratory areas, one of which (the PLA-9 properties) comprises the Farmout Properties. In consideration for such assignment, Northwest received an overriding royalty interest in the Farmout Properties. Northwest's rights under the joint venture agreement were subsequently assigned to WPC, which elected, effective as of October 1, 1992, to convert the overriding royalty interest in the Farmout Properties to a 35 percent net profits interest.
Development of the Fruitland coal formation acreage has resulted in the drilling of 584 gross coal seam gas wells in the Underlying Properties, 21 of which are in the Farmout Properties. WPC owns mineral rights in the Fruitland coal formation under 214 oil and gas leases. Under the terms of these leases, WPC has the right to extract oil and gas from the lease properties. WPC holds either a record title interest, operating right interest or net profits interest in the leases. Record title and operating right interests are commonly referred to as working interests. The Underlying Properties constitute substantially all of WPC's proved reserves in the Fruitland coal formation. WPC does not operate any of the coal seam gas wells on the Underlying Properties.
Unitized Areas. Approximately 90 percent of the Fruitland coal formation proved developed coal seam gas wells on the WI Properties are located within the boundaries of New Mexico Federal Units. Pursuant to the Federal Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended, and applicable state regulations, owners of oil and gas
leases in New Mexico created large unitized areas consisting of several contiguous sections for the orderly development and conservation of oil and gas reserves. The WI Properties participate in production from the 12 unitized areas in New Mexico referred to in the following table (the "Federal Units"). Operation and development of the Federal Units is governed by unit agreements and unit operating agreements (collectively, the "Unit Agreement"). Under the Unit Agreement and applicable government regulations, the Federal Unit operators request regulatory approval from the New Mexico Commission of Public Lands, the New Mexico Oil Conservation Commission and the Bureau of Land Management to establish or expand participating areas which produce oil and gas in paying quantities from designated formations. The interests of participants in a participating area are based on the surface acreage included in the participating area. Under the terms of the Unit Agreements, the operators, selected by a vote of the respective working interest owners, perform all operating functions.
In all of the Federal Units, participating areas have been formed for the Fruitland coal formation. After the wells capable of producing gas in paying quantities from the Fruitland coal formation are drilled on the undeveloped drill blocks included within a Federal Unit, such wells are added to the participating area if approved in accordance with the appropriate Unit Agreement. A delay of at least 18-36 months is usually incurred after a well is completed and producing before it is added to a participating area. As participating areas are created and expanded, such modification (which will be effective retroactively to the date production commenced from the wells causing such expansion) results in a participant owning undivided interests in all of the producing wells within the participating area. Therefore, WPC's working interest and net revenue interest in the wells in a Federal Unit or participating area may be modified retroactively, which could affect significantly the amount of NPI Net Proceeds with respect to production from October 1, 1992. An expansion of several participating areas resulted in increased revenues to the Trust in 1995. If any well(s) that produced or may have produced marketable quantities of coal seam gas prior to 1980 is included in or added to a participating area in which the WI Properties participate, the Conveyance provides that such well(s) will be treated as, and the Trust will own, a separate net profits interest in such well(s) (the "Pre-80 Production NPI"). The net proceeds for such Pre-80 Production NPI would be calculated in a manner similar to the calculation of Infill Net Proceeds, and the Trust's share of such net proceeds will be 81 percent, subject to possible decrease upon the same terms as the NPI. If a participating area expansion includes production from wells that do not qualify for Section 29 tax credits, the tax credit available to Unitholders in respect of production attributable to the NPI from such Federal Unit could be reduced. See "Item 1 -- Federal Income Taxation."
The following table reflects certain information from the Reserve Report as of December 31, 1997 prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd. dated March 5, 1998 (the "December 31, 1997 Reserve Report") regarding the Federal Units in which the WI Properties participate. At December 31, 1997, the WI Properties covered 538 gross (67 net) coal seam gas wells with working interests ranging from .833 percent to 100 percent, with an average working interest of approximately 12.5 percent. The Royalty Interests participate in each Federal Unit and participating area in which the WI Properties participate based on the acreage containing wells with proved reserves on December 31, 1997.
Meridian Oil Inc. is a subsidiary of Burlington Resources Inc. and Blackwood & Nichols Co., Ltd. is a subsidiary of Devon Energy Corporation.
Well Count and Acreage Summary. The following table shows as of December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the gross and net wells and acreage by proved producing and nonproducing categories for the WI Properties.
Of the total gross wells described above at December 31, 1997, 538 gross wells are located in unitized areas. In addition to the above, the Farmout Properties have 21 gross wells.
Properties Outside Unitized Areas. The WI Properties also include interests held by WPC in 25 proved developed Fruitland formation coal seam gas wells held in areas outside of Federal Units that are not reflected in the foregoing table. As of December 31, 1997, WPC's working interest and net revenue interests in these wells averaged 8.054 percent and 6.581 percent, respectively.
The Farmout Properties consist of a 35 percent net profits interest on a property farmed out to Amoco in La Plata County, Colorado. Such properties are not within any Federal Unit boundary. The Farmout Properties are owned, and most of the wells thereon are operated, by Amoco. Neither Williams, WPC, the Delaware Trustee, the Trustee nor the Unitholders are able to influence or control the operation or future development of the Farmout Properties. WPC has advised the Trustee that it believes that a majority of the production from the Farmout Properties is sold by Amoco under short-term marketing arrangements at spot market prices and qualifies for the Section 29 tax credit. No assurance can be given, however, that Amoco will not in the future subject production from the Farmout Properties to long-term sales contracts at non-market responsive prices. A portion of the production from the Farmout Properties is gathered by WFS pursuant to a gathering contract at rates and subject to other terms that were negotiated on an arms-length basis. As of December 31, 1997, 21 gross wells had been drilled on the Farmout Properties. For a further description of the Farmout Properties, see "-- The NPI."
THE NPI
The NPI generally entitles the Trust to receive 81 percent of the NPI Net Proceeds, subject to possible decrease as described under "-- NPI Percentage Changes." NPI Net Proceeds consists generally of the aggregate proceeds attributable to (i) WPC's net revenue interest based on the sale at the Wellhead of gas produced from the WI Properties and (ii) the revenue stream received by WPC from its 35 percent net profits interest in the Farmout Properties, less (a) WPC's working interest share of property and production taxes on the WI Properties; (b) WPC's working interest share of actual operating costs on the WI Properties to the extent in excess of those agreed to be paid by WPC as described herein; (c) WPC's working interest share of capital costs on the WI Properties to the extent in excess of those agreed to be paid by WPC as described herein; and (d) interest on the unrecovered portion, if any, of the foregoing costs at Citibank's Base Rate.
Most of the wells reflected in the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report were drilled prior to 1994. Significant additional capital expenditures were not incurred during the early years of the production lives of such wells, and it is not anticipated that further significant capital expenditures will be incurred. Consequently, the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report was prepared on the basis that there will be no capital expenditures borne by the Royalty Interests. Nevertheless, the operators and working interest owners of the wells could elect at any time to implement measures to increase the producible reserves. These measures, if implemented, could involve additional compression or enhanced or secondary recovery operations requiring substantial capital expenditures which would be proportionately borne by the Royalty Interests.
Exhibit B to the Conveyance reflects estimated annual operating expenses for wells on the WI Properties. No operating expenses in respect of the WI Properties will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds except when the actual cumulative operating expenses attributable to WPC's working interests in the WI Properties exceed the estimated cumulative operating expenses reflected in Exhibit B to the Conveyance as of the close of a calendar quarter (less the estimated operating costs in such Exhibit that are allocable to two wells that were repurchased effective as of January 1, 1994 by WPC as a purchase price adjustment or to any wells that are reconveyed to WPC as uneconomic). The amount by which such actual cumulative operating expenses exceed estimated cumulative operating expenses reflected in such Exhibit will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds and, therefore, will reduce the amounts payable to the Trust.
If, during any period, costs and expenses deductible in calculating the NPI Net Proceeds exceed gross proceeds, neither the Trust nor Unitholders will be liable for such excess, but the Trust will receive no payments for distribution to Unitholders with respect to the NPI until future gross proceeds exceed future costs and expenses plus the cumulative excess of such costs and expenses plus interest thereon at Citibank's Base Rate. However, if the excess costs are the result of capital costs incurred for enhanced recovery or similar operations on the WI Properties, the Trust will receive no less than 20 percent of the NPI Net Proceeds
(calculated before such capital costs are deducted) until such excess costs plus interest thereon at Citibank's Base Rate are recovered by WPC unless such capital costs are $3,000,000 or more, in which event the Trust will only receive payments equal to the administrative costs of the Trust until such unrecovered costs plus interest thereon at Citibank's Base Rate are less than $3,000,000.
The calculation of NPI Net Proceeds includes amounts received by WPC in respect of its 35 percent net profits interest in the Farmout Properties. WPC's net profits interest in the Farmout Properties is calculated on a total operations basis and is defined as lease revenues less burdens, operating expenses (including overhead as defined in the applicable operating agreement) and all taxes related to the value of reserves, production, property and equipment (e.g., severance and ad valorem taxes).
WPC has advised the Trustee that the majority of the coal seam gas from the Farmout Properties is sold by Amoco under short-term marketing arrangements at spot market prices and the remainder is marketed by the other operators of the wells in the Farmout Properties. Neither the Gas Purchase Contract nor the Gas Gathering Contract covers the volumes produced from the Farmout Properties.
RESERVE REPORT
The following table summarizes net proved reserves estimated as of December 31, 1997, and certain related information for the Royalty Interests and Underlying Properties from the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers. Summaries of the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report and the Prior Reserve Reports are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. See Note 9 of the Notes to Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 hereof for additional information regarding the net proved reserves of the Trust.
A net profits interest does not entitle the Trust to a specific quantity of gas but to a portion of the net proceeds derived therefrom. Ordinarily and in the case of the Farmout Properties, proved reserves attributable to a net profits interest are calculated by deducting an amount of gas sufficient, if sold at the prices used in preparing the reserve estimates for such net profits interest, to pay the future estimated costs and expenses deducted in the calculation of the net proceeds of such interest. Because WPC has agreed to pay certain operating and capital costs with respect to the WI Properties, no amount of gas in respect of such costs has been deducted from the amount of reserves attributable to the WI Properties in determining the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. Accordingly, the reserves presented for the Royalty Interests reflect quantities of gas that are free of future costs and expenses (other than production, severance and ad valorem taxes in respect of the WI Properties) if the price and cost assumptions set forth in the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report occur. The December 31, 1997 Reserve Report was prepared in accordance with criteria established by the Commission and, accordingly, is based upon a contractual price for gas for December 1997, of $1.70 per MMBtu before transportation charges. The December 31, 1997 Reserve Report is also based on the percentage share of NPI Net Proceeds payable to the Trust remaining at 81 percent until 2000 and then reduced to 60 percent for the remaining life of the reserves.
- ---------------
(a) Although the prices utilized in preparing the estimates in this table are in accordance with criteria established by the Commission, such prices were influenced by seasonal demand for natural gas and other factors and may not be the most representative prices for estimating future net revenues or related reserve data.
(b) The gas reserves were estimated by Miller and Lents, Ltd. by applying decline curve analyses utilizing type curves for the various areas in the Basin. The bases for the consideration of type curves are the production histories, the water and gas production rates and the initial reservoir pressures of the wells in the separate areas.
(c) Estimated future net revenues are defined as the total revenues attributable to the Underlying Properties and Royalty Interests less royalties, severance and ad valorem taxes, operating costs and future capital expenditures in excess of estimated amounts to be paid by WPC. Overhead costs (beyond the standard overhead charges for the nonoperated properties) have not been included, nor have the effects of depreciation, depletion and Federal income tax. Estimated future net revenues and discounted estimated future net revenues are not intended and should not be interpreted as representing the fair market value for the estimated reserves.
Based upon the production estimates used in the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report for the January 1, 1998 through December 31, 2002 period, and assuming constant future Section 29 tax credits at the estimated 1997 rate of $1.026 per MMBtu, the estimated total future tax credits available from the production and sale of the net proved reserves from the Royalty Interests would be approximately $54 million, having a discounted present value (assuming a 10 percent discount rate) of approximately $45 million.
There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The reserve data set forth herein, although prepared by independent petroleum engineers in a manner customary in the industry, are estimates only, and actual quantities and values of natural gas are likely to differ from the estimated amounts set forth herein. In addition, the reserve estimates for the Royalty Interests will be affected by future changes in sales prices for natural gas produced and costs that are deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds and Infill Net Proceeds. Further, the discounted present values shown herein were prepared using guidelines established by the Commission for disclosure of reserves and should not be considered representative of the market value of such reserves or the Units. A market value determination would include many additional factors.
Information concerning historical changes in net proved reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties, and the calculation of the standardized measure of discounted future net revenues related thereto, are contained in Note 5 (Supplemental Oil and Gas Reserve Information (Unaudited)) to the Statement of Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses for the Underlying Properties to be contained in the Trust's annual report to Unitholders for the year ended December 31, 1997. Williams has not filed reserve estimates covering the Underlying Properties with any Federal authority or agency other than the Commission.
HISTORICAL GAS SALES PRICES AND PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth the actual net production volumes from the WI Properties, weighted average lifting costs and information regarding historical gas sales prices for each of the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997:
The published Blanco Hub Spot Price for December 1997 was $2.16 per MMBtu. Information regarding average wellhead sales prices for production from the Farmout Properties is not available to WPC, although WPC has advised the Trustee that it believes production from such properties is currently sold by Amoco under short-term marketing arrangements at spot market prices.
PURCHASE PRICE ADJUSTMENTS
For a description of a potential purchase price adjustment provision, see "-- Title to Properties -- Southern Ute Litigation."
NPI PERCENTAGE CHANGES
Possible Reduction. If there has been production since October 1, 1992 of approximately 178.5 Bcf of gas in respect of the Underlying Properties, the percentage of NPI Net Proceeds payable in respect of the NPI will be reduced with respect to any additional production from the Underlying Properties if the internal rate of return of the "Aftertax Cash Flow per Unit" (as defined below) exceeds certain specified levels. For purposes hereof, "Aftertax Cash Flow per Unit" is equal to the sum of the following amounts that a hypothetical purchaser of a Unit in the Public Offering would have received or been allocated if such Unit were held through the date of such determination: (a) total cash distributions per Unit plus (b) total tax credits available per Unit under Section 29 of the IRC less (c) the net taxes payable per Unit (assuming a Federal income tax rate of 31 percent, which at the time of the formation of the Trust was the highest Federal income tax rate applicable to individuals). Internal rate of return ("IRR") is the annual discount rate (compounded quarterly) that equates the present value of the Aftertax Cash Flow per Unit to the initial price to the public of the Units in the Public Offering (which was $20.00 per Unit). Set forth below is a table that reflects the IRR and the corresponding percentage of NPI Net Proceeds represented by the NPI and the retained interest of WPC in the NPI Net Proceeds:
To the extent that WPC pays to the Trust, as a purchase price adjustment, any amounts in connection with the litigation described under "-- Title to Properties -- Southern Ute Litigation," the Underlying Properties reserve threshold specified above (approximately 178.5 Bcf) will be reduced by the reserves estimated in the October 1, 1992 Reserve Report and attributable to the Underlying Properties burdened by Royalty Interests in respect of which such payments are made.
Through December 31, 1997, cumulative production since October 1, 1992 was 144.1 Bcf. Using the definitions described above, which do not include any terminal value, the internal rate of return is not currently projected by Miller and Lents to be 12 percent or higher until the third quarter of 2000, although no assurance can be made that it will not occur sooner than projected.
GAS PURCHASE CONTRACT
In accordance with a Confirmation Agreement dated as of May 1, 1995 by and among WPC, Williams and the Trust (the "Confirmation Agreement"), effective May 1, 1995, WGM assigned to WFS Gas Resources Company ("WFS Gas Resources") all of its right, title, interest, duties and obligations under the Gas Purchase Contract, and WFS Gas Resources assumed all of WGM's right, title, interest, duties and obligations thereunder. In connection with the Confirmation Agreement, the Trustee received an opinion of counsel to Williams that the Confirmation Agreement need not be submitted for approval by vote of the Unitholders.
A copy of the Confirmation Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. The following summary of the material provisions of the Confirmation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of such agreement as set forth in such exhibit.
Under the terms of the Gas Purchase Contract, WFS Gas Resources purchases the natural gas produced by WPC from the WI Properties (except for certain small volumes) at the Wellhead. The Gas Purchase Contract commenced October 1, 1992 and expires on the termination of the Trust. The Gas Purchase Contract provides for a pricing mechanism during an initial five-year period ("Primary Term") which expired on December 31, 1997. Following the expiration of the Primary Term, the Gas Purchase Contract continues for one or more consecutive additional one-year terms (each such term a "Contract Year") unless and until
WFS Gas Resources exercises its annual option, exercisable fifteen (15) days prior to the end of each Contract Year, to discontinue purchasing gas from WPC under the terms of the Gas Purchase Contract and instead purchase gas at a monthly price equal to the "Index Price" as described hereafter. For the Contract Year January 1, 1998 through December 31, 1998 ("1998 Contract Year"), WFS Gas Resources did not exercise this option and the pricing mechanism of the Primary Term will therefore remain in place through at least December 31, 1998. Under this mechanism, the monthly price to be paid by WFS Gas Resources for natural gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract shall be (a) the $1.70 Minimum Purchase Price, less (b) any costs paid by WFS Gas Resources to gather, treat and process the gas and deliver it to specified delivery points and plus (c) under certain circumstances, additional amounts determined as described below:
(i) If the Index Price in any month during the 1998 Contract Year is greater than $1.94 per MMBtu, then WFS Gas Resources will pay WPC an amount for gas purchased equal to $1.94 per MMBtu, less the costs paid by WFS Gas Resources to gather and process such gas and deliver it to specified delivery points, plus 50 percent of the excess of the Index Price over $1.94 per MMBtu (the "Price Differential"), provided WFS Gas Resources has no accrued Price Credits (see below) in the Price Credit Account (defined below). If WFS Gas Resources has accrued Price Credits in the Price Credit Account then WFS Gas Resources will be entitled to reduce the amount in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price (before deducting gathering and processing costs and costs to deliver the gas to specified delivery points) that otherwise would be payable by any accrued and unrecouped Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, and WFS Gas Resources will not be obligated to pay WPC any amounts in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price until such time as all accrued Price Credits have been recouped and a zero balance exists in the Price Credit Account.
(ii) If the Index Price in any month during the 1998 Contract Year is greater than the Minimum Purchase Price but less than or equal to $1.94 per MMBtu, then WFS Gas Resources will pay WPC an amount for each MMBtu purchased equal to the Index Price less the costs paid by WFS Gas Resources to gather and process such gas and deliver it to specified delivery points, provided WFS Resources has no accrued Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, then WFS Gas Resources will be entitled to reduce the amount in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price Credit Account, then WFS Gas Resources will be entitled to reduce the amount in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price (before deducting, gathering and processing costs and costs to deliver to specified delivery points) that otherwise would be payable by any accrued and unrecouped Price Credits in the Price Credit Account, and WFS Gas Resources will not be obligated to pay WPC any amounts in excess of the Minimum Purchase Price until such time as all accrued Price Credits have been recouped and a zero balance exists in the Price Credit Account.
(iii) If the Index Price in any month during the 1998 Contract Year (or in any subsequent Contract Year as long as WFS Gas Resources has not elected to discontinue paying under the Gas Purchase Contract) is less than the Minimum Purchase Price, then WFS Gas Resources will pay for each MMBtu of gas purchased the Minimum Purchase Price less the costs paid by WFS Gas Resources to gather and process such gas and deliver it a specified delivery points, and if such month commences on or after January 1, 1994, WFS Gas Resources will receive a credit (the "Price Credit") from WPC for each MMBtu of natural purchased by WFS Gas Resources equal to the difference between the Minimum Purchase Price and the Index Price. WPC is required to establish and maintain an account (the "Price Credit Account") containing the accrued and unrecouped amount of such Price Credits. No Price Credits were accrued in respect of production purchased by WFS Gas Resources prior to January 1, 1994.
The Index Price was below the Minimum Purchase Price in each month from April 1994 through October 1996. In each month from November 1996 through February 1997 and from May 1997 through February 1998 the Index Price exceeded the Minimum Purchase Price. The Index Price was below the Minimum Purchase Price during the months of March and April 1997. WPC estimates that, as of December 31, 1997, WFS Gas Resources had aggregate Price Credits in the Price Credit Account of Approximately $13.9 million of which the Trust's 81 percent interest was approximately $11.3 million.
This entitlement to recoup the Price Credits means that if and when the Index Price is above the Minimum Purchase Price, future royalty income paid to the Trust would be reduced until such time as such Price Credits have been fully recouped. Corresponding cash distributions to Unitholders would also be reduced. Cash distributions in 1997 to Unitholders were reduced by approximately $9 million in recoupment of Price Credits.
Subsequent to the expiration of the Primary Term of the pricing provision of the Gas Purchase Contract, which occurred on December 31, 1997, WFS Gas Resources has an annual option (which can be exercised only once during the term of the Gas Purchase Contract) to discontinue paying the Minimum Purchase Price by giving written notice of its election to pay solely the Index Price (less the costs paid by WFS Gas Resources to gather, treat and process such gas and deliver it to specified points). If WFS Gas Resources so elects to discontinue paying the Minimum Purchase Price, WFS Gas Resources will no longer be entitled to retain the Price Differential when the Index Price exceeds $1.94 per MMBtu and any accrued and unrecouped Price Credits will be extinguished. Since there is no published price in the San Juan Basin for wellhead deliveries, the wellhead price in the Gas Purchase Contract is determined by utilizing a published price which is inclusive of gathering, treating and processing costs. As used herein, "Index Price" means 97 percent of the first of month El Paso Natural Gas Co. San Juan Spot Price. The El Paso Natural Gas Co. -- San Juan Spot Price is a posted index price per MMBtu (dry basis) published in Inside F.E.R.C.'s Gas Market Report which is a bi-monthly publication by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. The Gas Purchase Contract provides WFS Gas Resources a one time option to convert the Index Price from the first of month posting of El Paso Natural Gas Co. -- San Juan Spot Price to the average of the bi-monthly postings for that same index. The Gas Purchase Contract further provides for an alternative indexing mechanism in the event the Inside F.E.R.C.'s Gas Market Report indices are modified or discontinued. All prices used as index prices are delivered prices at the specified point of delivery and are, therefore, before deducting gathering and/or transportation charges, taxes, treating costs or other costs payable prior to the delivery points. During periods when there is a Price Differential, WFS Gas Resources will absorb a portion of the gathering charges based on a formula specified within the Gas Purchase Contract.
A small volume of gas produced from the WI Properties (less than 5 percent) is sold by the operators of certain wells under gas purchase contracts with other buyers.
The prices paid to WPC pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract are prices payable for the value of gas purchased for production at the Wellhead. Title to the gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract passes to WFS Gas Resources at the Wellhead. WFS Gas Resources is responsible for gathering, treating, processing and marketing all gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract. Approximately 90 percent of the production from the WI Properties is gathered by WFS on behalf of WFS Gas Resources. The balance of the production is gathered on behalf of WFS Gas Resources by third parties. See "-- Gas Gathering Contract." The price paid to WPC pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract is after deducting the costs incurred by WFS Gas Resources to gather, treat and process such gas (including costs incurred by WFS Gas Resources under the Gas Gathering Contract). Payments to WPC for gas purchased pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract are made by WFS Gas Resources on or before the last day of the first calendar month next following the end of each calendar quarter.
NPI Net Proceeds and Infill Net Proceeds are calculated on an entitlements or entitled volume basis, whereby the aggregate proceeds from the sale of gas under applicable gas sales contracts (excluding production from the Farmout Properties) are determined by WPC as if WPC had produced and sold its working interest share of production from the WI Properties, even if the actual volumes delivered to and sold by WPC are different than the entitlement volumes. The effect of such an "entitlements basis" calculation is that NPI Net Proceeds or Infill Net Proceeds and, therefore, the amount thereof paid to the Trust, may include amounts in respect of production not taken by WPC because of a so-called imbalance (that is, where a working interest owner is delivered more or less than the actual share of production to which it is entitled).
The Gas Purchase Contract may not be amended in a manner that would materially adversely affect the revenues to the Trust without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Units present or represented at a meeting of Unitholders at which a quorum (consisting of a majority of the outstanding Units) is present or
represented. As noted elsewhere herein, the Units held by Williams immediately after the Public Offering may not be voted on any such amendment nor will such Units be counted for quorum purposes. A copy of the Gas Purchase Contract is filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. The foregoing summary of the material provisions of the Gas Purchase Contract is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of such agreement as set forth in such exhibit.
GAS GATHERING CONTRACT
In accordance with the Confirmation Agreement, effective May 1, 1995, WGM assigned to WFS Gas Resources all of its right, title, interest, duties and obligations under the Gas Gathering Contract, and WFS Gas Resources assumed all of WGM's right, title, interest, duties and obligations thereunder.
The Gas Gathering Contract, which will be in effect until December 31, 2022, subject to annual extensions thereafter, covers approximately 90 percent of the production from the WI Properties and commits WFS on behalf of WFS Resources to gather such production (except production from 19 wells in the San Juan 29-7 unit as described below), at rates starting at $.35 per Mcf (plus a fuel reimbursement estimated to be 6.2 percent to 7.3 percent of gathered volumes on a Btu equivalent basis, and subject to increase if the CO(2) content of the gas exceeds 10 percent) and adjusted annually based on average annual price comparisons determined on the basis of the Blanco Hub Spot Price, provided that the gathering rate will be no less than $.35 per Mcf increased or decreased on the basis of an increase or decrease in a published index measuring the gross domestic product. A significant portion of the gas to be gathered pursuant to the Gas Gathering Contract must first be gathered from the wellhead to a Federal Unit central delivery point by Burlington Resources Gathering Inc. ("Burlington"). WFS Gas Resources has been assigned a one-year gathering contract (with a monthly evergreen provision) whereby Burlington provides interruptible gathering service at the price of $.06 per Mcf which escalates annually at 3 percent, plus actual fuel used (historically averaging approximately .5 percent). It is anticipated that WFS Gas Resources will be able to extend the term of this agreement.
The remainder of the production on the WI Properties is not physically connected to the WFS system and is not covered by the Gas Gathering Contract. This gas is gathered either by Burlington or El Paso Field Services ("EFS") for delivery at the Blanco Hub or by WFS for delivery at the outlet of the Ignacio Plant in La Plata County, Colorado. WPC has existing long-term gathering agreements with EFS and short-term gathering agreements with Burlington with rates and terms generally comparable to the Gas Gathering Contract.
The Gas Gathering Contract may not be amended in a manner that would materially adversely affect the revenues to the Trust without the approval of the holders of a majority of the Units present or represented at a meeting of Unitholders at which a quorum (consisting of a majority of the outstanding Units) is present or represented. As noted elsewhere herein, the Units held by Williams immediately after the Public Offering may not be voted on any such amendment nor will such Units be counted for quorum purposes.
The Gas Gathering Contract was twice amended each effective as of October 1, 1993 with respect to 19 wells located in the San Juan 29-7 unit. WFS is obligated to gather production from such wells at a rate of $.36 per Mcf (plus a fuel reimbursement of 5.5 percent of the Mcfs received at the Wellhead Receipt Points (as defined)), fixed for a 10 year term. In connection with these amendments to the Gas Gathering Contract, the Trustee received an opinion of counsel to Williams that such amendments need not be submitted for approval by vote of the Unitholders.
The Gas Gathering Contract was further amended effective as of April 1, 1997, for the purpose of increasing the field rights held by the Trust on the Manzanares gathering system. The increase accommodates incremental gas flow that will occur due to WFS's expansion and enhancement of gathering facilities.
A copy of the Gas Gathering Contract is filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. The foregoing summary of the material provisions of the Gas Gathering Contract is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of such agreement as set forth in such exhibit.
FEDERAL AND INDIAN LANDS
Approximately 80 percent of the Underlying Properties are burdened by royalty interests held by the Federal government or the Southern Ute Indian Tribe. Royalty payments due to the U.S. Government for gas produced from Federal and Indian lands included in the Underlying Properties must be calculated in conformance with its interpretation of regulations issued by the Minerals Management Service ("MMS"), a subagency of the U.S. Department of the Interior which administers and receives revenues from Federal and Indian royalties on behalf of the U.S. Government and as agent for the Indian tribes. The MMS regulations cover both valuation standards which establish the basis for placing a value on production and cost allowances which define those post-production costs that are deductible by the lessee.
Where gas is sold by a lessee to a marketing affiliate such as WFS Resources, the MMS regulations essentially ignore the lessee-affiliate transaction and consider the arm's-length sale by the affiliate as the point of valuation for royalty purposes. Accordingly, WPC is required to calculate royalty payments based on the price WFS Resources receives when it markets the gas production ("Resale Price"), notwithstanding the price payable by WFS Resources to WPC pursuant to the Gas Purchase Contract. With respect to the Farmout Properties, Amoco pays royalties based on the price it receives for production from such properties as long as the gas is purchased by nonaffiliates. The NPI Net Proceeds, a portion of which is payable to the Trust, reflects the deduction of all royalty and overriding royalty burdens. The ratio of royalties paid on Federal and Indian lands to the NPI Net Proceeds increases as the Resale Price exceeds the price under the Gas Purchase Contract.
The MMS regulations permit a lessee to deduct from its gross proceeds its reasonable actual costs of transportation and processing to transport the gas from the lease to the point of sale in calculating the market value of its production. Although WFS Resources deducts the gathering charges paid by it to WFS, Burlington, EFS and Northwest in calculating the wellhead price it pays to WPC, the MMS could disallow the deduction of some portion of the gathering charges after review of such charges on audit of WPC's royalty as discussed below. If some portion of the gathering charges is disallowed, the MMS will likely demand additional royalties plus interest on the amount of the underpayment.
The Trustee has been advised by WPC that the MMS has from time to time considered the inclusion of the value of the Section 29 tax credits attributable to coal seam gas production in the calculation of gross proceeds for purposes of calculating the royalty that is payable to the MMS. On August 30, 1993, the U.S. Office of the Inspector General (the "OIG") issued an audit report stating that Section 29 tax credits should be included in the calculation of gross proceeds and recommending that the MMS pursue collection of additional royalties with respect to past and future production. On December 8, 1993, however, the Office of the Solicitor of the U.S. Department of the Interior gave its opinion to the MMS that the report of the OIG was incorrect and that Section 29 tax credits are not part of gross proceeds for the purpose of federal royalty calculations. WPC believes that any such inclusion of the value of Section 29 tax credits for purposes of calculating royalty payments required to be made on Federal and Indian lands would be inappropriate since all mineral interest owners, including royalty owners, are entitled to Section 29 tax credits for their proportionate share of qualifying coal seam gas production. WPC has advised the Trustee that it would vigorously oppose any attempt by the MMS to require the inclusion of the value of Section 29 tax credits in the calculation of gross proceeds. However, if regulations providing for the inclusion of such value were adopted and upheld, royalty payments would be increased which would decrease NPI Net Proceeds and, therefore, the amounts payable to the Trust. The reduction in amounts payable to the Trust would cause a corresponding reduction in associated Section 29 tax credits available to Unitholders.
The MMS generally audits royalty payments within a six-year period. Although WPC calculates royalty payments in accordance with its interpretation of the then applicable MMS regulations, WPC does not know whether the royalty payments made to the U.S. Government are totally in conformance with MMS standards until the payments are audited. If an MMS audit, or any other audit by a Federal or state body, results in additional royalty charges, together with interest, relating to production from and after October 1, 1992 in respect of the Underlying Properties, such charges and interest will be deducted in calculating NPI Net
Proceeds for the quarter in which the charges are billed and in each quarter thereafter until the full amount of the additional royalty charges and interest have been recovered.
SALE AND ABANDONMENT OF UNDERLYING PROPERTIES
WPC (and any transferees) have the right to abandon any well or working interest included in the Underlying Properties if, in its opinion, such well or property ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities. Since WPC does not operate any of the wells on the Underlying Properties, WPC does not normally control the timing of plugging and abandoning wells. The Conveyance provides that WPC's working interest share of the costs of plugging and abandoning uneconomic wells will be deducted in calculating NPI Net Proceeds.
WPC may sell the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests, without the consent of the Unitholders. Under the Trust Agreement, WPC has certain rights (but not the obligation) to purchase the Royalty Interests upon termination of the Trust. See "Item 1 -- Description of the Trust -- Termination and Liquidation of the Trust."
WPC has retained the right to repurchase from the Trust, commencing January 1, 2003, any portion of the NPI conveyed to the Trust if WPC's interest in the Underlying Properties burdened by such portion of the NPI ceases to produce or is not capable of producing in commercially paying quantities (ignoring for purposes of such determination the NPI and the Infill NPI). The purchase price payable by WPC will be the fair market value at the date of repurchase of the portion of the NPI or Infill NPI so purchased, as established on the basis of an appraisal provided by an independent expert.
THE INFILL NPI
The Royalty Interests include the Infill NPI, a net profits interest on any Infill Wells completed on the WI Properties. No Infill Wells have been drilled and none will be drilled unless the well spacing limitations for coal seam gas wells in the Basin are reduced. If such changes occur and Infill Wells are drilled, the Infill NPI will entitle the Trust to receive 20 percent of the Infill Net Proceeds. No reserves have been attributed to any Infill Wells in the December 31, 1997 Reserve Report or the Prior Reserve Reports.
WILLIAMS' PERFORMANCE ASSURANCES
Pursuant to the Conveyance, Williams has agreed to pay each of the following to the extent not paid by WPC when due and payable: (i) any purchase price adjustment which WPC is required under the Conveyance to pay to purchase any proved developed nonproducing wells which are not completed and producing by December 31, 1993; (ii) any purchase price adjustment which WPC is required under the Conveyance to pay in the event the Southern Ute Indian Tribe is successful in showing that WPC has no right to produce or receive proceeds from the Fruitland coal formation and any loss, charge or liability which WPC is required under the Conveyance to pay if the Trust is named as a defendant in the pending Southern Ute Indian Tribe litigation; (iii) all liabilities and operating and capital expenses which WPC is required under the Conveyance to pay as owner of the Underlying Properties, including without limitation, WPC's obligation to pay operating expenses with respect of the WI Properties up to the cumulative amounts specified in Exhibit B to the Conveyance and the capital costs incurred in respect of the WI Properties to the extent specified in the Conveyance, including amounts which WPC is obligated to pay with respect to environmental liabilities; (iv) all NPI Net Proceeds, Infill Net Proceeds and other amounts which WPC is obligated to pay to the Trust under the Conveyance, including amounts which WPC is obligated to pay with respect to environmental liability; and (v) any proceeds from a sale of any remaining Royalty Interests that WPC may elect to purchase upon termination of the Trust ((i) through (v) collectively, the "WPC Payment Obligations"). Williams has also agreed, to the extent not paid by WFS Resources when due and payable, to pay all amounts which WFS Resources is required to pay to WPC in respect of production attributable to the Royalty Interests pursuant to the terms of the Gas Purchase Contract between WPC and WFS Resources (the "WFS Resources Payment Obligations"). In the Confirmation Agreement, Williams expressly confirmed that its agreement to cause the
WFS Resources Payment Obligations to be paid in full when due shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the assignments by WGM of the Gas Purchase Contract and the Gas Gathering Contract.
In the event and to the extent that WPC does not pay any of the WPC Payment Obligations in full when due and, in the event and to the extent that WFS Resources does not pay any of the WFS Resources Payment Obligations in full when due, the Trustee (but not Unitholders) is entitled, following notice to Williams and demand for payment by the Trustee and after a 10-day cure period, to enforce payment by Williams. Williams' assurance obligations terminate upon the earlier of (i) dissolution of the Trust, (ii) with respect to the WPC Payment Obligations, upon sale or other transfer by WPC of all or substantially all of the Underlying Properties, (iii) with respect to the WPC Payment Obligations, upon one or more sales or other transfers of a majority or more of Williams' ownership interests in WPC and (iv) with respect to the WFS Resources Payment Obligations, upon one or more sales or other transfers of a majority or more of Williams' ownership interests in WFS Resources; provided that, with respect to (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, only if the transferee has, at the time of transfer, a rating assigned to outstanding unsecured long-term debt from Moody's Investor Services of at least Baa3 or from Standard & Poor's Corporation of at least BBB- (or an equivalent rating from at least one nationally-recognized statistical rating organization), or such transferee is approved by holders of a majority of outstanding Units, and in any case, the transferee unconditionally agrees in writing, to assume and be bound by Williams' remaining assurance obligations.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
Williams has advised the Trustee that it believes that WPC's title to the Underlying Properties, and the Trust's title to the Royalty Interests, are good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in the opinion of Williams, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such Underlying Properties or Royalty Interests. For a description of a lawsuit challenging WPC's right to produce coal seam gas from certain properties, see "Southern Ute Litigation" below. As is customary in the gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination is performed as a lease is acquired, except leases covering proved reserves. Generally, prior to drilling a well, a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant title defects, if any, before proceeding with operations. However, WPC (or its predecessor) has owned the leases covering the Underlying Properties since 1974, and conventional gas has been produced from formations other than the Fruitland formation covered by all of the leases since the 1950s. Under these circumstances, WPC conducted an internal review of its title records prior to the drilling of the coal seam gas wells within the 12 Federal Units, but did not conduct title examinations. In addition to its internal review, WPC, when requested by the operator, participated in title examinations prior to the drilling of a few coal seam gas wells located outside the Federal Units.
The Underlying Properties are typically subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following: (i) royalties and other burdens and obligations, expressed and implied, under gas leases; (ii) overriding royalties and other burdens created by WPC or its predecessors in title; (iii) a variety of contractual obligations (including, in some cases, development obligations) arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles; (iv) liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements; (v) pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; and (vi) easements, restrictions, rights-of-way and other matters that commonly affect property. To the extent that such burdens and obligations affect WPC's rights to production and the value of production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust's interests and in estimating the size and value of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. Except as noted below, Williams believes that the burdens and obligations affecting the Underlying Properties and Royalty Interests are conventional in the industry for similar properties, do not, in the aggregate, materially interfere with the use of the Underlying Properties and will not materially and adversely affect the value of the Royalty Interests.
Although the matter is not entirely free from doubt, Williams has advised the Trustee that it believes (based upon the opinions of local counsel to WPC with respect to matters of Colorado law and New Mexico
law) that the Royalty Interests should constitute real property interests under applicable state law. Consistent therewith, the Conveyance states that the Royalty Interests constitute real property interests and it was recorded in the appropriate real property records of Colorado and New Mexico, the states in which the Underlying Properties are located in accordance with local recordation provisions. If, during the term of the Trust, WPC becomes involved as a debtor in bankruptcy proceedings, it is not entirely clear that all of the Royalty Interests would be treated as real property interests under the laws of Colorado and New Mexico. If in such a proceeding a determination were made that the Royalty Interests constitute real property interests, the Royalty Interests should be unaffected in any material respect by such bankruptcy proceeding. If in such a proceeding a determination were made that a Royalty Interest constitutes an executory contract (a term used, but not defined, in the United States Bankruptcy Code to refer to a contract under which the obligations of both the debtor and the other party to such contract are so unsatisfied that the failure of either to complete performance would constitute a material breach excusing performance by the other) and not a real property interest under applicable state law, and if such contract were not to be assumed in a bankruptcy proceeding involving WPC, the Trust would be treated as an unsecured creditor of WPC with respect to such Royalty Interest in the pending bankruptcy. Although no assurance is given, Williams has advised the Trustee that it does not believe that the Royalty Interests should be subject to rejection in a bankruptcy proceeding as executory contracts.
Southern Ute Litigation. As previously reported in the Public Offering Prospectus and each of the Trust's prior Annual Reports on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, WPC is a named defendant in a lawsuit (the "Southern Ute Litigation") brought by the Southern Ute Indian Tribe (the "Tribe") which, among other things, contests ownership rights in certain coal seam gas producing properties, including a portion of the Farmout Properties in which WPC owns a net profits interest. A portion of the revenues received by WPC with regard to the Farmout Properties is paid to the Trust as a component of the NPI. The following information updates the Trust's previously reported disclosures regarding the Southern Ute Litigation.
On December 31, 1991, the Tribe initiated the Southern Ute Litigation in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado (the "District Court") against WPC, Amoco Production Company ("Amoco") and other major gas producers and affected parties in the San Juan Basin area (collectively, the "Defendant Class"), alleging that certain coal strata and constituents within that strata (including coal seam gas) were reserved by the United States, then granted to the Tribe for the Tribe's perpetual benefit and ownership. The Tribe alleges that coal seam gas from the coal strata is being and has been wrongfully extracted by the Defendant Class. The Tribe is seeking a declaration that it owns a beneficial interest in the coal seam gas and that the extraction of such gas without Tribal consent is an unlawful trespass. In addition to a declaration of ownership of the gas, the Tribe is seeking compensation for the value of coal seam gas heretofore extracted and certain other remedies.
The Southern Ute Litigation involves approximately 1,745 gross acres comprising a portion of the Farmout Properties. Two Tribe leases covering approximately 3,600 gross acres included in the Farmout Properties are not covered by the pending litigation, but could be the subject of future litigation.
Amoco, on behalf of itself, WPC and the other members of the Defendant Class, is vigorously defending the lawsuit. On September 13, 1994, the District Court issued a memorandum opinion and order in the litigation granting the motion for summary judgment filed by the Defendant Class on the question of ownership of the coal seam gas. The District Court ruled that the U.S. Congress did not reserve the coal seam gas in the Coal Lands Acts of 1909 and 1910, and denied the Tribe's claims of equitable ownership of the coal seam gas. The Tribe appealed the order to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit (the "Court of Appeals"), which issued an opinion dated July 16, 1997 reversing the District Court and holding that coal seam gas was "an integral component of coal" and had therefore been vested in the Tribe as owners of the coal resource. The Court of Appeals remanded the matter to the District Court for further proceedings consistent with its decision. Amoco, as class representative of the Defendant Class, subsequently sought and obtained a rehearing en banc from the Court of Appeals on the ownership issue. The en banc hearing was held on March 17, 1998, and no ruling has to date been issued. If the original opinion of the Court of Appeals finding ownership in the Tribe is upheld by the Court of Appeals after the en banc hearing, Amoco on behalf
of the Defendant Class may seek additional review of the Court for Appeals' decision. If any such further review is sought and denied, District Court proceedings would then be conducted to adjudicate the respective affirmative defenses of the members of the Defendant Class to the Tribe's claims.
WPC has agreed to indemnify the Trust from and against any loss, charge or liability as may arise in respect of the Underlying Properties or the Royalty Interests, in connection with the defense of the Southern Ute Litigation and all legal costs the Trust might incur if the Trust is named as a defendant in such litigation. The Trust has not been named a defendant at the present time. In the event of a settlement or issuance of a final non-appealable court decision in the Southern Ute Litigation, either of which results in a determination that WPC has no right to produce or receive proceeds from coal seam gas from the properties in question, WPC is obligated under the terms of the Conveyance to pay to the Trust, in addition to the indemnification described above, for distribution to then current Unitholders, as a return of a portion of the original purchase price paid for the Units in the Public Offering, an amount equal to (a) the product of (i) $1.47 per Mcf times (ii) the proved reserves estimated in the October 1, 1992 Reserve Report for the Royalty Interests that are affected by such settlement or court decision, less (b) the aggregate cash distributions paid by the Trust and tax benefits, if any, available to the Unitholders, in each case attributable to the portion of the Farmout Properties affected by such settlement or court decision prior to the effective date of such settlement or court decision (the "Formula Reimbursement Amount"). If, however, the Trust's share of revenues from the Farmout Properties is instead reduced as a consequence of a settlement or judgment, WPC will bear any such loss or reduction to such revenues resulting from such a settlement or court decision out of (and limited to) WPC's retained interest percentage of its 35 percent net profits interest in the portion of the Farmout Properties subject to the Southern Ute Litigation and affected by such settlement or court decision. Only in the event that the amounts realized by WPC with respect to such retained interest percentage are inadequate to offset any loss or reduction otherwise affecting the Trust's future NPI Net Proceeds or there is a failure of title will the Trust's share of future revenues be reduced.
WPC has advised the Trustee that, according to WPC's calculations, as of December 21, 1997, the Formula Reimbursement Amount had been exceeded by approximately $340,000. Accordingly, if the final resolution of the litigation results in a failure of title of WPC's interest in the portion of the Farmout Properties subject to such litigation, no additional amounts will be paid to the Trust with respect to such portion and the amount of NPI Net Proceeds thereafter payable to the Trust for distribution to Unitholders would be decreased.
Should the Tribe ultimately prevail in the Southern Ute Litigation, in addition to the loss of future revenues attributable to the Farmout Properties affected by the litigation, WPC may be held liable to repay to the Tribe amounts attributable to such properties, plus interest thereon, including amounts attributable to such properties previously paid by WPC to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Conveyance and Trust Agreement. However, Section 1.25(d) of the Conveyance provides that litigation costs and other losses, charges or liabilities incurred by WPC in relation to the Southern Ute Litigation will neither be included in the calculation of Net Profits Costs nor borne by the Trust and will be borne by WPC.
WPC has notified the Trustee that WPC intends to recoup out of subsequent amounts that otherwise would be paid to the Trust any amounts paid the Trust in prior periods in excess of the amounts that were due in prior periods pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.03 of the Conveyance. For example, if there is a failure of title resulting from the Southern Ute Litigation, because the Formula Reimbursement Amount has already been paid, any further payments to the Trust attributable to the Farmout Properties would be subject to such recoupment. Any such recoupment by WPC would reduce or possibly eliminate Trust revenues (and therefore distributions to Unitholders) attributable to the WI Properties and to the Farmout Properties, including the portion of the Farmout Properties not directly affected by the Southern Ute Litigation. As indicated above, WPC calculates that the amount subject to such recoupment as of December 21, 1997 was approximately $340,000, if there is a failure of title resulting from the Southern Ute litigation. The extent and timing of any such reduction would depend upon the ultimate resolution of the Southern Ute Litigation and cannot be predicted at the present time.
Amoco has advised WPC that, at a selected time in the future, it may suspend payment of amounts attributable to the portion of the Farmout Properties affected by the Southern Ute Litigation in light of the original opinion of the Court of Appeals. To the extent any such amounts are so suspended, the then current revenues of the Trust will be reduced correspondingly. According to WPC's calculations, revenues attributable to the Farmout Properties affected by the Southern Ute Litigation have constituted between approximately 3 percent and 21 percent of the Trust's quarterly royalty income, averaging approximately 9 percent of the Trust's quarterly royalty income. Whether any amounts so suspended are thereafter released and paid to WPC (and the applicable portion thereof ultimately paid to the Trust), and the timing of any such release, will depend upon the outcome of the Southern Ute Litigation and cannot be predicted at this time.
To the extent that any such amounts are so suspended by Amoco, Unitholders will not be required currently to take into income such amounts, nor will they be entitled to claim depletion on such production or Section 29 tax credits attributable thereto. If and when any amounts so suspended by Amoco are released and payment thereof received by the Trust, Unitholders on the record date for such payment will then be required to report all of the income attributable to the previously suspended amounts paid and will then be entitled to claim the Section 29 tax credits thereon, subject to the requirement that each such Unitholder be an owner of such Units during the period that such production was actually produced and sold. Each Unitholder should consult his tax advisor regarding tax compliance matters relating to these circumstances.
The Trustee makes no prediction as to the ultimate resolution of the Southern Ute Litigation or as to the likely effect, if any, that such resolution may have upon the Trust or its Unitholders.
Southern Ute Proposed Mineral Assignment Ordinance. As currently proposed, the 1992 Southern Ute Tribal Proposed Mineral Assignment Ordinance (the "Proposed Ordinance") could apply to the conveyance to the Trust of the Farmout Properties involving Tribal mineral interests. Although the Proposed Ordinance does not specifically reference a net profits interest, it is possible that the Tribe would consider the conveyance of the NPI to the extent burdening Tribal mineral interests as being covered by the Proposed Ordinance and requiring the approval of the Chairman of the Tribe. If the Proposed Ordinance is applicable, the conveyance of the NPI would not be approved if the Tribe determined that such creation would not be in the best interests of the Tribe and, absent such Tribal approval, the NPI would be invalid. In addition, a knowing violation could result in removal of the offending party from the reservation and that party's forfeiture of any Tribal mineral interests located on the reservation. Under the Proposed Ordinance, a mineral interest owner is limited to seeking declaratory relief in Tribal Court.
Additionally, under the Proposed Ordinance, the Tribe would have a right of first refusal to acquire the NPI associated with Tribal leases. The Tribe would have 120 days after the submission of a completed assignment of a Tribal Mineral Interest Form to exercise the right to acquire said interest for the same terms and conditions as are disclosed by the filing.
It is unknown if the Proposed Ordinance will be enacted at all, enacted in its current form or enacted in an altered form. Therefore, the potential effect of the Proposed Ordinance cannot be assessed at this time.
METHANE CONTAMINATION LITIGATION
In January 1994, an amended class action complaint was filed in State District Court in La Plata County, Colorado, seeking damages arising out of alleged methane contamination of water, air and soil resources by the drilling and production activities of seven operators, including an affiliate of WPC. This class action complaint was thereafter dismissed, and approximately 40 separate complaints were filed by various plaintiffs in the U.S. District Court in Colorado containing comparable allegations. The plaintiffs maintained that drilling in the Fruitland coal formation caused methane and other substances to migrate through conventional gas wellbores and natural fractures and faults to their water sources. The plaintiffs were seeking both compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive relief, a remediation program and an air and medical monitoring program.
The state court ruled it did not have jurisdiction over the plaintiffs' claims. All of the federal cases in which the affiliate of WPC was a named defendant have been dismissed. The defendants have agreed to forego
collection of attorneys' fees in the state case upon plaintiffs' execution of settlement agreements precluding their raising the same issues in the future. This matter will be concluded at such time as all such settlements have been signed and approved by the court.
ITEM 3.