Item 2. Properties.
GILPIN HOTEL CASINO. The Gilpin Hotel Casino was the Company's first casino project. The 37,000 square foot facility is located in the heart of the Black Hawk gaming district. Originally built in the 1860s, the Gilpin Hotel is one of the oldest in Colorado, however, no hotel or lodging facilities are offered by the casino. Construction of the casino property began in February 1992 and was completed in September 1992. The Gilpin Hotel Casino commenced operations in October 1992, and was expanded through the acquisition of an adjacent casino in late 1994. It now offers customers approximately 455 slot machines and 9 table games, two restaurants and four bars.
THE LODGE CASINO. The Lodge Casino, opened on June 24, 1998 and is also located in the heart of the Black Hawk gaming district. The 250,000 square foot facility has approximately 50,000 square feet of casino space, 50 hotel rooms, three restaurants, four bars and parking for 600 cars. The Company and affiliates of Jacobs Entertainment Ltd. have established a jointly owned entity to develop, own and operate The Lodge Casino. The Company owns 75% of this entity and the Jacobs' affiliates own the remaining 25%.
EMPLOYEES. The Gilpin Hotel Casino employs approximately 260 and The Lodge Casino employs approximately 600 full-time persons including cashiers, dealers, food and beverage service personnel, facilities maintenance, security, valet, accounting, marketing, and personnel services. A manual has been provided to each employee which emphasizes customer service as the number one goal of each individual employee. No labor unions represent any employee group. A standard package of employee benefits is provided to full-time employees along with training and job advancement opportunities. Relations with employees are deemed by management to be good. Although the gaming labor market is tight in Colorado and will become more so with the opening of new casinos in Black Hawk, the Company believes good quality employees can be recruited and retained primarily because of the work atmosphere, competitive wages and fringe benefits offered by the Company.
LOCATION AND PARKING. The scarcity of convenient parking facilities has been a problem in Black Hawk and Central City since legalized gaming began. The Company's marketing staff, based on interviews with gaming patrons, determined that the convenience of parking was a significant factor in many patrons' decision to visit a casino. In the last two years, several competitors have developed or arranged for convenient parking in or near their casinos which has diminished the advantage previously enjoyed by the Gilpin Hotel Casino. Now that The Lodge Casino is fully completed, the Company has parking availability for approximately 600 cars at The Lodge Casino and 200 cars at the Gilpin Hotel Casino.
GAMING EQUIPMENT. The Lodge Casino presently has 835 gaming devices and 24 table games. The Gilpin Hotel Casino operates with 455 slot machines and 9 table games. Included in the mix of gaming devices are poker machines, keno machines, and a series of progressive payoffs on nickel, quarter, and dollar slot machines. The maximum wager pursuant to state law is $5.00 per device. The Company believes the Casinos have a competitive mix of machines based on the popularity of the types of play which casinos have been receiving in the Black Hawk-Central City gaming area.
OPERATIONAL CONTROLS. The Colorado Gaming Commission has established strict rules with regard to the supervision and control of all gaming activities, including security and cash control systems. The Casinos employ these internal controls and paperwork systems to insure compliance with regulations. The Casinos are also required to obtain an annual audit report from an independent certified public accounting firm, which in turn is required to make certain unannounced inspections. There are approximately 264 video cameras throughout the Gilpin Hotel Casino and 357 throughout The Lodge Casino with taping devices in place to record all gaming activity at all times. These tapes and live action play are monitored and reviewed by both security personnel and Gaming Commission employees to insure the integrity of gaming operations. The Casinos employ a controller who is responsible for an accounting staff of 19 people. The controller is also responsible for all internal operational accounting matters.
Additionally, the Casinos employ a full-time compliance officer who reports directly to the Vice President of Gaming Operations. The compliance officer's job is to ensure the Casinos comply with the Internal Control Minimum Procedures as established by the Colorado Division of Gaming.
SUPPORT SYSTEMS. The Casinos utilize computerized slot data tracking systems which allow them to track individual play, payouts, and develop mailing lists for special events and contest play. The systems also provide management with a variety of other useful marketing information. Computer based point of sale accounting and data tracking systems monitor the popularity of all food and beverage items and offers management controls on food and beverage sales.
COMPETITION. Competition in the Black Hawk and Central City gaming market, which forms the primary gaming market in Colorado, is intense. The Casinos are located in Black Hawk on opposite sides of Main Street. Due to their proximity, the Casinos compete for some of the same customers from the Denver metropolitan area. Further, there are 29 other casinos operating in Black Hawk and Central City as of December 31, 1998 and approximately 18 casinos operating in Cripple Creek as of that date. As of December 31, 1998, there were 19 casinos and approximately 7,300 gaming devices (slot machines, blackjack and poker tables) in Black Hawk. The Isle of Capri Casino, which opened for business on December 29, 1998, increased the number of gaming devices in Black Hawk by approximately 1,100. The Riviera Casino, Hyatt Black Hawk Hotel & Casino and the Black Hawk Mardi Gras LLC, are currently under development and are expected to increase the number of gaming devices in Black Hawk by approximately 3,000. Therefore, when the competitive projects open, which is expected during 1999, the increased competition may adversely affect the Company's operations in Black Hawk and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations and financial position in the future. Other large, well financed companies may enter the Black Hawk and other Colorado markets through the purchase and/or expansion of existing facilities.
Central City is located adjacent to Black Hawk and currently provides the primary competition to the gaming establishments in Black Hawk, with 12 casinos and 3,200 gaming devices as of December 31, 1998. Black Hawk has historically enjoyed an advantage over Central City in large part because access to the area by State Highway 119 (currently the only major access to Black Hawk from the Denver metropolitan area and Interstate 70) requires
customers to drive by and, in part, through Black Hawk to reach Central City. An attempt by Central City to obtain financing for an additional roadway, commonly referred to as the Southern Access, providing new, direct access to Central City from Interstate 70 through the formation of a general improvement district was delayed and, in late 1997, ended, by litigation challenging Central City's actions in forming the general improvement district. Central City has acquired portions of the right-of-way and is taking renewed steps toward formation of an entity to construct the road, and it is likely that Central City will continue pursuing financing for the alternate route by other means. The additional roadway, if constructed as currently proposed, would make it possible for certain traffic which currently passes through Black Hawk to proceed directly to Central City from Interstate 70. Even if the new route was constructed, motorists driving from the Denver metropolitan area would still have the option of choosing to go either to Black Hawk or Central City. The Black Hawk Casino Owners' Association has recently undertaken a study to determine the feasibility of an access route by tunnel from Interstate 70.
The Company believes that the primary competitive factors in the Black Hawk-Central City market are location, availability and convenience of parking, number and types of slot machines and gaming tables, types and pricing of amenities, name recognition, and overall atmosphere. The Company believes the Casinos generally compete favorably based on these factors. The Company also believes the 50 room hotel at The Lodge Casino provides a small competitive advantage since hotel facilities are extremely limited in Black Hawk.
Any expansion of limited gaming within Colorado but outside of Native American lands will require the approval, by statewide majority vote, of an amendment to the Colorado constitution. The six initiatives to expand gaming to other locales in the state which have appeared on ballots since 1992 have all been defeated by at least a 2-to-1 margin. In addition, bills have been introduced in the state legislature to authorize or expand gaming in Colorado in various forms, including, for example, the expansion of the state lottery by the use of video lottery terminals (terminals which look and play much like slot machines) at horse and dog racing tracks. A proposal for expansion of gaming at horse and dog racing tracks was passed by the legislature but vetoed by the Governor in 1997, its first year of introduction. This proposal failed to emerge from committee consideration during the 1998 legislative session. The Company expects that another bill to authorize video lottery terminals will be introduced in the 1999 state legislative session, with substantial financial backing. In the opinion of the Company, video lottery, if legalized throughout Colorado, would have a material adverse impact on the gaming industry in Black Hawk. Other legislative proposals also are possible. For example, Senate Bill 69, introduced in the 1998 state legislative session but defeated on the Senate floor, would have given the State Historical Society the right to approve certain, but not all, site designs for casinos. Finally, expansion of other existing forms of gaming, such as bingo or pull tab machines in bingo establishments, could be approved by the state legislature or other applicable regulatory authority, which could adversely affect the amount of gaming which might otherwise occur within Black Hawk.
Under the U.S. Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, various classes of gaming activities are lawful on Native American lands if such lands are located in a state that permits such gaming for any purpose by any person, organization or entity. In addition to other conditions, the act requires that gaming activities be conducted in conformance with a tribal-state compact entered into by the tribe with the state. The Director of the State Department
of Revenue has executed agreements allowing for limited stakes gaming with the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe and the Southern Ute Tribe. No assurance can be given that such agreements will continue to provide for gaming limitations in the future. Unlike casinos operating in Black Hawk, Central City and Cripple Creek, casinos operating within the reservations are not subject to the taxes imposed by the Gaming Commission, and may be operated 24-hours a day. The reservations are located in the southwestern portion of Colorado.
In August 1996, President Clinton signed a bill creating the National Gambling Impact and Policy Commission to conduct a comprehensive study of all matters relating to the economic and social impact of gaming in the United States. The legislation provides that, not later than two years after the enactment of such legislation, the commission is to issue a report to the President and Congress containing its findings and conclusions, together with recommendations for legislation and administrative actions. Any such recommendations, if enacted into law, could adversely impact the gaming industry and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or results of operations. It is currently anticipated that the report will be issued in the spring of 1999.
In addition to competing with other gaming facilities in Colorado as described above, the Company competes to a lesser degree, for both customers and potential future gaming sites, with gaming facilities and companies nationwide, including casinos in Nevada, Atlantic City and Mississippi, many of which have substantially greater financial resources and experience in the gaming business. The Company also competes with other forms of gaming on both a local and national level, including state-sponsored lotteries, gaming on Indian reservations, charitable gaming and parimutuel wagering, among others, and competes for entertainment dollars generally with other forms of entertainment. The expansion of legalized casino gaming to new jurisdictions throughout the United States may also affect competitive conditions. Although the Company's focus is the Colorado gaming market, it is considering gaming ventures in other locations that the Company believes present favorable opportunities if its resources allow it to do so. However, its ability to capitalize on such opportunities is expected to be limited due to competition for such opportunities from more experienced and financially stronger entities.
GAMING REGULATION AND LICENSING. The State of Colorado created the Colorado Division of Gaming within the Department of Revenue to license, implement, regulate and supervise the conduct of limited stakes gaming. The Division, under the supervision of the Gaming Commission, has been granted broad power to ensure compliance with Colorado law and regulations adopted thereunder (collectively, the "Colorado Regulations"). The Division may inspect, without notice, premises where gaming is being conducted; may seize, impound or remove any gaming device; may examine and copy all of a licensee's records; may investigate the background and conduct of licensees and their employees; and may bring disciplinary actions against licensees and their employees. The Division may also conduct detailed background checks of persons who loan money to or invest money in a licensee.
It is illegal to operate a gaming facility without a license issued by the Gaming Commission. The Gaming Commission is empowered to issue five types of gaming and gaming-related-licenses. The licenses are revocable and non-transferable. The failure or inability of the Company, the Gilpin Hotel Casino, The Lodge Casino, or associated persons
to maintain necessary gaming licenses would have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Company.
The Gaming Commission closely regulates the suitability of persons owning or seeking to renew an interest in a gaming license or permit, and the suitability of a licensee or permittee can be adversely affected by persons associated with the license or permittee. Additionally, any person or entity having any direct interest in the Company or any casino directly or indirectly owned by the Company may be subject to administrative action, including personal history and background investigations. The actions of persons associated with the Company, such as its management or employees, could jeopardize any licenses held by the Company in Colorado.
The Casinos were granted retailer/operator licenses concurrently with their openings. The licenses are subject to continued satisfaction of suitability requirements. The current license for the Gilpin Hotel Casino expires on September 30, 1999 and the license for The Lodge Casino expires on May 14, 1999. There can be no assurance that the Casinos can successfully renew their licenses in a timely manner from year to year.
All persons employed by the Company who are involved, directly or indirectly, in gaming operations in Colorado also are required to obtain various forms of gaming licenses. Key licenses are issued to "key employees," which include any executive, employee or agent of a licensee having the power to exercise a significant influence over decisions concerning any part of the operations of a licensee. At least one key license holder must be on the premises of each Colorado casino at all times. Messrs. Jacobs, Roark, Cook and Politano, among others, hold associated key licenses for the Company. All of the Company's directors are required to become associated key licensees.
As a general rule, under the Colorado Regulations, it is a criminal violation for any person to have a legal, beneficial, voting or equitable interest, or right to receive profits, in more than three retail/operator gaming licenses in Colorado. The Company has an interest in two such licenses. Accordingly, any expansion opportunities that the Company may have in Colorado are limited. In addition, this limitation may affect the ability of certain persons to own the Company's stock. Under the Colorado Regulations, the definition of an "interest" in a licensee excludes ownership of less than 5% of a publicly traded company such as the Company.
If the Gaming Commission determines that a person or entity is not suitable to own a direct or indirect voting interest in the Company, the Company may be sanctioned unless the person or entity disposes of its voting interest. Sanctions may include the loss of a casino license. In addition, the Colorado Regulations prohibit a licensee or any affiliate of a licensee from paying dividends, interest or other remuneration to any person found to be unsuitable, or recognizing the exercise of any voting rights by any person found to be unsuitable. The Colorado Regulations require an operating casino licensee to include in its corporate charter provisions which permit the repurchase of the voting interests of any person found to be unsuitable. The Company's Articles of Incorporation have been amended to include the required provisions.
The Gaming Commission has the power to require the Company to suspend or dismiss officers, directors and other key employees or sever relationships with other persons who refuse to file appropriate applications or who are found to be unsuitable to act in such capacities, and may have such power with respect to any entity which is required to be found suitable under the Colorado Regulations.
A person or entity may not sell, lease, purchase, convey, acquire or pledge an interest in an entity licensed to conduct limited stakes gaming in Colorado without the prior approval of the Gaming Commission, except for a less than 5% interest in a publicly traded corporation.
The Gaming Commission also has the right to request information from any person directly or indirectly interested in, or employed by, a licensee, and to investigate the moral character, honesty, integrity, prior activities, criminal record, reputation, habits and associations of (i) all persons licensed pursuant to the Colorado Limited Gaming Act, (ii) all officers, directors and stockholders of a licensed privately held corporation, (iii) all officers, directors and stockholders holding either a five percent (5%) or greater interest or a controlling interest in a licensed publicly traded corporation, (iv) all general partners and all limited partners of a licensed partnership, (v) all persons which have a relationship similar to that of an officer, director or stockholder of a corporation (such as members and managers of a limited liability company), (vi) all persons supplying financing or loaning money to any licensee connected with the establishment or operation of limited gaming, and (vii) all persons having a contract, lease or ongoing financial or business arrangement with any licensee, where such contract, lease or arrangement relates to limited gaming operations, equipment, devices or premises.
Colorado casinos may operate only between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., and may permit only individuals 21 years or older to gamble in the casino. Slot machines, black jack and poker are the only permitted games, with a maximum single wager of $5.00. Colorado casinos may not extend credit to gaming patrons. The Colorado Regulations restrict the percentage of space a casino may use for gaming to 50% of any floor and 35% of the overall square footage of the building in which the casino is located. Effective July 1 of each year, Colorado establishes the gross gaming revenue tax rate for the ensuing twelve months. Under the Colorado Constitution, the rate can be increased to as much as 40% of adjusted gross proceeds. Colorado has both raised and lowered gaming tax rates since they were initially set in 1991. Currently, the maximum gaming tax rate is 20%. See "Taxation" below.
The Company believes that it is presently in material compliance with all applicable gaming rules and regulations.
LIQUOR REGULATION. The sale of alcoholic beverages is subject to licensing, control and regulation by certain Colorado state and local agencies (the "Liquor Agencies"). Subject to certain exceptions, all persons who directly or indirectly own 5% or more of the Company or its casino must file applications with and are subject to investigation by the Liquor Agencies. The Liquor Agencies also may investigate persons who, directly or indirectly, loan money to liquor licensees. All liquor licenses are renewable, are revocable and are not transferable. The Liquor Agencies have broad powers to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any liquor license. Any such disciplinary action could, and any failure to renew or other revocation of any of its
liquor licenses would, have a material adverse effect upon the operations of the Company and its casinos.
Under Colorado law, it is a criminal violation for any person or entity to own a direct or indirect interest in more than one type of alcoholic beverage license or more than three gaming tavern liquor licenses. The Casinos have gaming tavern liquor licenses. Accordingly, the Company's expansion opportunities in Colorado are limited by such licensing restriction.
TAXATION. Gaming operators in Colorado are subject to state and local taxes and fees in addition to ordinary federal and state income taxes. Black Hawk has imposed an annual license fee, currently $750, for each gaming device installed in a casino. Colorado currently levies an annual device fee of $75 for each gaming device installed in a casino. In addition, Colorado has a gross gaming revenue tax (gross gaming revenue being generally defined as the total amount wagered less the total amount paid out in prizes and is also called "adjusted gross proceeds") as follows:
Both of the Company's casinos are subject to the 20% rate. Under the Colorado Constitution, the Commission could increase the top rate to as much as 40%. Pursuant to a more recent tax limitation amendment to the Colorado Constitution, however, neither the state nor any local government may increase a tax rate without an affirmative vote of the people; therefore, there is some question as to whether the Gaming Commission could constitutionally increase the state tax levied on gross gaming revenues without such a vote.
Item 3.