ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Gilpin Hotel Casino. The Gilpin Hotel Casino was our first casino project. The 37,000 square foot facility is located in the Black Hawk gaming district. Originally built in the 1860s, the Gilpin Hotel is one of the oldest buildings in Colorado, however, no hotel or lodging facilities are offered on the property. Construction of the casino began in February 1992 and was completed in September 1992. The Gilpin Hotel Casino commenced operations in October 1992, and was expanded through the acquisition of an adjacent casino in late 1994.
The Lodge Casino. The Lodge Casino, opened on June 24, 1998 and is also located in the Black Hawk gaming district. The 250,000 square foot, $74 million facility has approximately 50,000 square feet of casino
space, 50 hotel rooms, three restaurants, four bars and parking for 600 cars. We have established a jointly owned entity with affiliates of Jacobs Entertainment Ltd. to develop, own and operate The Lodge Casino. We own 75% of this entity and Jacobs' affiliates own the remaining 25%.
Employees. The Gilpin Hotel Casino employs approximately 250 full-time persons and The Lodge Casino employs approximately 500 full-time persons including cashiers, dealers, food and beverage service personnel, facilities maintenance, security, valet, accounting, marketing, and personnel services. A manual has been provided to each of our employees which emphasizes our philosophy of customer service as our number one goal. No labor unions represent any employee group. A standard package of employee benefits is provided to full-time employees along with training and job advancement opportunities. Relations with employees are deemed by management to be good. The gaming labor market is extremely tight in Colorado and will become more so with the opening of new casinos in Black Hawk. As a result, wages, salaries and employee benefits are increasing. We compete for employees based on our work atmosphere, competitive wages and fringe benefits.
Location and Parking. The scarcity of convenient parking facilities has been a problem in Black Hawk and Central City since legalized gaming began. In the last two years, several competitors have developed and have installed self parking garages or arranged for convenient parking in or near their casinos which has diminished part of the competitive advantage which we previously enjoyed. Presently, we have parking availability for approximately 600 cars at The Lodge Casino and 200 cars at the Gilpin Hotel Casino.
Gaming Equipment. The Lodge Casino presently has 854 slot machines and 26 table games. The Gilpin Hotel Casino operates with 455 slot machines and 9 table games. Included in the mix of gaming devices are poker machines, keno machines, and a series of progressive payoffs on nickel, quarter, and dollar slot machines. The maximum wager under state law is $5.00 per play. We believe the Casinos have a competitive mix of machines based on the popularity of the types of play which casinos have been receiving in the Black Hawk gaming area.
Operational Controls. The Colorado Gaming Commission has established strict rules with regard to the supervision and control of all gaming activities, including security and cash control systems. The Casinos employ a full-time compliance officer who reports directly to our Vice President of Gaming Operations. The compliance officer's job is to ensure the Casinos comply with the Internal Control Minimum Procedures as established by the Colorado Division of Gaming. The Casinos employ these internal controls and paperwork systems to insure compliance with regulations. The Casinos are also required to obtain an annual audit report from an independent certified public accounting firm, which in turn is required to make unannounced inspections. The Casinos employ a controller who is responsible for an accounting staff of 19 people. Our controller is also responsible for all internal operational accounting matters.
There are approximately 260 video cameras throughout the Gilpin Hotel Casino and 355 throughout The Lodge Casino with taping devices in place to record all gaming activity at all times. These tapes and live action play are monitored and reviewed by our security personnel and Gaming Commission employees to insure the integrity of gaming operations.
Support Systems. The Casinos utilize computerized slot data tracking systems which allow us to track individual play, payouts, and develop mailing lists for special events, contest play and promotions. The systems also provide us with a variety of other useful marketing information. Computer based point of sale accounting and data tracking systems monitor the popularity of all food and beverage items and provides us control on food and beverage sales.
Competition. We believe the primary competitive factors in the Black Hawk market are location, availability and convenience of parking, number and types of slot machines and gaming tables, types and pricing of amenities, name recognition, and overall atmosphere. We believe our Casinos generally compete favorably based on these factors.
Competition in the Black Hawk gaming market, which is the primary gaming market in Colorado, is intense. Our Casinos are located in Black Hawk on opposite sides of Main Street. Due to their proximity, the Casinos compete for some of the same customers from the Denver metropolitan area. Further, there were 17 other casinos operating in Black Hawk, 9 casinos operating in Central City and 18 casinos operating in
Cripple Creek as of March 1, 2000. As of December 31, 1999, there were 7,129 gaming devices (slot machines, blackjack and poker tables) in Black Hawk. The Isle of Capri Casino, which opened for business on December 30, 1998, has about 1,100 gaming devices. The Riviera Casino and the Black Hawk Mardi Gras LLC, which both opened during the first quarter of 2000, added approximately 1,750 gaming devices to the Black Hawk market. With the opening of these new casinos, the increased competition may adversely affect our operations in Black Hawk and this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position in fiscal 2000 and in the future. Other large, well financed companies may enter the Black Hawk and other Colorado markets through the purchase and/or expansion of existing facilities.
Our Casinos have a total of 800 parking spaces. Among our competitors, the Isle of Capri has 1,100 parking spaces (many of which are self parking), the Riviera has 550, the Mardi Gras has 750, Colorado Central Station has 700, Fitzgerald's has 500 and the Canyon Casino has 400 parking spaces.
Central City is located adjacent to Black Hawk and provides the most direct competition to the gaming establishments in Black Hawk. Black Hawk has historically enjoyed a competitive advantage over Central City in large part because access by State Highway 119 (currently the only major access to Black Hawk from the Denver metropolitan area and Interstate 70) requires customers to drive by and, in part, through Black Hawk to reach Central City. Central City has acquired portions of a right-of-way and is taking steps toward formation of an entity to construct a road from I-70, commonly referred to as the Southern Access, and it is likely that Central City will continue pursuing financing for this route. If the Southern Access is constructed as proposed, it would be possible for certain traffic which currently passes through Black Hawk to proceed directly to Central City from Interstate 70. Even if the new route was constructed, motorists driving from the Denver metropolitan area would still have the option of choosing to go either to Black Hawk or Central City.
The Black Hawk Business Improvement District ("BID") has contracted to provide lighting along seven miles of State Highway 119, through the canyon leading to Black Hawk. This project should be completed during the fourth quarter of 2000 or in the first quarter of 2001. The BID has also recently undertaken a study to determine the feasibility of an access route to State Highway 119 by tunnel from Interstate 70.
The casinos in Cripple Creek, located a driving distance of 110 miles to the south of the Black Hawk market, and two native American casinos located in the southwestern corner of the state, constitute the only other casino gaming venues in the state of Colorado. We believe that Cripple Creek, located 45 miles west of Colorado Springs, provides limited competition to the Black Hawk market. We also compete with other forms of gaming including the Colorado lottery and horse and dog racing, among others, and we compete generally with other forms of entertainment.
Any expansion of limited gaming within Colorado but outside of Native American lands will require the approval, by statewide majority vote, of an amendment to the Colorado Constitution. The six initiatives to expand gaming to other locales in the state which have appeared on ballots since 1992 have all been defeated by at least a 2-to-1 margin. In addition, bills have been introduced in the state legislature to authorize or expand gaming in Colorado in various forms, including, for example, the expansion of the state lottery by the use of video lottery terminals, which look and play much like slot machines, at horse and dog racing tracks. A proposal for expansion of gaming at horse and dog racing tracks was passed by the legislature but vetoed by the former Governor in 1997. This proposal failed to emerge from committee consideration during the 1998 legislative session, in light of the current Governor's stated opposition to such legislation. There may be another bill to authorize video lottery terminals introduced in the 2001 state legislative session, with substantial financial backing. In our opinion, video lottery, if legalized throughout Colorado, would have a material adverse impact on the gaming industry in Black Hawk. Other legislative proposals are also possible. Finally, expansion of other existing forms of gaming, such as bingo or pull tab machines in bingo establishments, could be approved by the state legislature or other regulatory authorities, which could adversely affect the amount of gaming which might otherwise occur within Black Hawk.
Under the U.S. Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, various classes of gaming activities are lawful on Native American lands if the lands are located in a state that permits gaming for any purpose by any person. In addition to other conditions, the Act requires that gaming activities be conducted in conformance with a
tribal-state compact entered into by the tribe with the state. The Director of the State Department of Revenue has executed agreements allowing for limited stakes gaming with the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe and the Southern Ute Tribe. We cannot give any assurance that these agreements will continue to provide for gaming limitations in the future. Unlike casinos operating in Black Hawk, Central City and Cripple Creek, casinos operating within the reservations are not subject to the taxes imposed by the Gaming Commission, and may be operated 24-hours a day. The reservations are located in the southwestern portion of Colorado, approximately 250 miles from Black Hawk.
In August 1996, President Clinton signed a bill creating the National Gambling Impact and Policy Commission to conduct a comprehensive study of all matters relating to the economic and social impact of gaming in the United States. The commission issued a report to the President and Congress containing its findings and conclusions, together with fourteen recommendations for legislation and administrative actions. Any of these recommendations, if enacted into law, could adversely impact the gaming industry and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
In addition to competing with other gaming facilities in Colorado as described above, we compete to a lesser degree, for both customers and potential future gaming sites, with gaming companies nationwide, including casinos in Nevada, Atlantic City and Mississippi, and casinos on Native American lands in New Mexico, many of which have substantially greater financial resources and experience in the gaming business. The expansion of legalized casino gaming to new jurisdictions throughout the United States may also affect competitive conditions.
Gaming Regulation and Licensing. The State of Colorado created the Colorado Division of Gaming within the Department of Revenue to license, implement, regulate and supervise the conduct of limited stakes gaming. The Division, under the supervision of the Gaming Commission, has been granted broad power to ensure compliance with Colorado law and regulations adopted thereunder (collectively, the "Colorado Regulations"). The Division may inspect, without notice, premises where gaming is being conducted; may seize, impound or remove any gaming device; may examine and copy all of a licensee's records; may investigate the background and conduct of licensees and their employees; and may bring disciplinary actions against licensees and their employees. The Division may also conduct detailed background checks of persons who loan money to or invest money in a licensee.
It is illegal to operate a gaming facility without a license issued by the Gaming Commission. The Gaming Commission is empowered to issue five types of gaming and gaming related licenses. The licenses are revocable and non-transferable. Our failure or inability or that of the Gilpin Hotel Casino, The Lodge Casino, or associated persons to maintain necessary gaming licenses would have a material adverse effect on our gaming operations.
The Casinos were granted retail/operator licenses concurrently with their openings. The licenses are subject to continued satisfaction of suitability requirements. The current license for the Gilpin Hotel Casino expires on September 30, 2000 and the license for The Lodge Casino expires on May 14, 2000. There can be no assurance that the Casinos can successfully renew their licenses in a timely manner from year to year.
All persons employed by us who are involved, directly or indirectly, in gaming operations in Colorado also are required to obtain various forms of gaming licenses. Key licenses are issued to "key employees," which include any executive, employee or agent of a licensee having the power to exercise a significant influence over decisions concerning any part of the operations of a licensee. At least one key license holder must be on the premises of each Colorado casino at all times. Messrs. Jacobs, Roark, Cook and Politano, among others, hold associated key licenses. All of our directors are required to become associated key licensees.
The Gaming Commission closely regulates the suitability of persons owning or seeking to renew an interest in a gaming license or permit, and the suitability of a licensee or permittee can be adversely affected by persons associated with the license or permittee. Additionally, any person or entity having any direct interest in us or any casino directly or indirectly owned by us may be subject to administrative action, including personal history and background investigations. The actions of persons associated with us, such as our management or employees, could jeopardize any licenses held by us in Colorado or elsewhere.
As a general rule, under the Colorado Regulations, it is a criminal violation for any person to have a legal, beneficial, voting or equitable interest, or right to receive profits, in more than three retail/operator gaming licenses in Colorado. We have an interest in two such licenses. Any expansion opportunities that we may have in Colorado are limited to one more license. In addition, this limitation may affect the ability of certain persons to own our stock. Under the Colorado Regulations, the definition of an "interest" in a licensee excludes ownership of less than 5% of a publicly traded company such as us. A person or entity may not sell, lease, purchase, convey, acquire or pledge an interest in an entity licensed to conduct limited stakes gaming in Colorado without the prior approval of the Gaming Commission, except for a less than 5% interest in a publicly traded corporation.
The Gaming Commission has the right to request information from any person directly or indirectly interested in, or employed by, a licensee, and to investigate the moral character, honesty, integrity, prior activities, criminal record, reputation, habits and associations of (i) all persons licensed pursuant to the Colorado Limited Gaming Act, (ii) all officers, directors and stockholders of a licensed privately held corporation, (iii) all officers, directors and stockholders holding either a five percent (5%) or greater interest or a controlling interest in a licensed publicly traded corporation, (iv) all general partners and all limited partners of a licensed partnership, (v) all persons which have a relationship similar to that of an officer, director or stockholder of a corporation (such as members and managers of a limited liability company), (vi) all persons supplying financing or loaning money to any licensee connected with the establishment or operation of limited gaming, and (vii) all persons having a contract, lease or ongoing financial or business arrangement with any licensee, where such contract, lease or arrangement relates to limited gaming operations, equipment, devices or premises.
If the Gaming Commission determines that a person or entity is not suitable to own a direct or indirect voting interest in us, we may be sanctioned unless the person or entity disposes of its voting interest. Sanctions may include the loss of our casino license. In addition, the Colorado Regulations prohibit a licensee or any affiliate of a licensee from paying dividends, interest or other remuneration to any person found to be unsuitable, or recognizing the exercise of any voting rights by any person found to be unsuitable. The Colorado Regulations require an operating casino licensee to include in its corporate charter provisions which permit the repurchase of the voting interests of any person found to be unsuitable. Our Articles of Incorporation have been amended to include the required provisions.
The Gaming Commission also has the power to require us to suspend or dismiss our officers, directors and other key employees or sever relationships with other persons who refuse to file appropriate applications or who are found to be unsuitable to act in such capacities. The Commission or the Director of the Division of Gaming may review a licensee's gaming contracts, require changes in the contract before the licensee's application is approved or participation in the contract is allowed, and require a licensee to terminate its participation in any gaming contract.
Colorado casinos may operate only between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., and may permit only individuals 21 years or older to gamble or consume alcohol in the casino. Slot machines, black jack, poker and other approved variations of those games and video poker are the only permitted games, with a $5.00 maximum single wager. Colorado casinos may not extend credit to gaming patrons. The Colorado Constitution and Regulations restrict the percentage of space a casino may use for gaming to 50% of any floor and 35% of the overall square footage of the building in which the casino is located. Effective July 1 of each year, Colorado establishes the gross gaming revenue tax rate for the ensuing twelve months. Under the Colorado Constitution, the rate can be increased to as much as 40% of adjusted gross proceeds. Colorado has both raised and lowered gaming tax rates since they were initially set in 1991. Currently, the maximum gaming tax rate is 20%. See "Taxation" below.
We believe we are presently in material compliance with all applicable gaming rules and regulations.
If we are successful in acquiring the Gold Dust West in Reno, Nevada and therefore become licensed as a gaming operator in Nevada, we will be governed by Nevada gaming laws and regulations which are similar to those in Colorado in many respects. A summary of Nevada laws and regulations will be included in the Form 8-K Report we intend to file upon completion of the Gold Dust West acquisition.
Liquor Regulation. The sale of alcoholic beverages is subject to licensing, control and regulation by certain Colorado state and local agencies (the "Liquor Agencies"). Subject to certain exceptions, all persons who directly or indirectly own 5% or more of a company or its casino must file applications with and are subject to investigation by the Liquor Agencies. The Liquor Agencies also may investigate persons who, directly or indirectly, loan money to liquor licensees. All liquor licenses are renewable, are revocable and are not transferable. The Liquor Agencies have broad powers to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any liquor license. Any disciplinary action by the Liquor Agencies or any failure to renew or other revocation of any of our liquor licenses would have a material adverse effect upon our operations and our Casinos.
Under Colorado law, it is a criminal violation for any person or entity to own a direct or indirect interest in more than one type of alcoholic beverage license or more than three gaming tavern liquor licenses. The Casinos have gaming tavern liquor licenses. Accordingly, our expansion and diversification opportunities in Colorado are limited by these licensing restrictions.
Taxation. Gaming operators in Colorado are subject to state and local taxes and fees in addition to ordinary federal and state income taxes. Black Hawk has imposed an annual license fee, currently $750, for each gaming device installed in a casino. In addition, Colorado has a gross gaming revenue tax (gross gaming revenue being generally defined as the total amount wagered less the total amount paid out in prizes and is also called "adjusted gross proceeds"). Effective July 1, 1999, the gaming tax rates for the June 30, 2000 tax year are as follows:
Both of our Casinos are subject to the maximum rate. Neither the Constitution nor the gaming statutes require that gaming tax rates be graduated, as they currently are. Under the Colorado Constitution, the Commission could increase the top rate to as much as 40%. A more recent tax limitation amendment to the Colorado Constitution, however, states that neither the state nor any local government may increase a tax rate without an affirmative vote of the people; therefore, there is a question as to whether the Gaming Commission could constitutionally increase the state tax levied on gross gaming revenues without such a vote. The Colorado legislature rejected this argument after the top tax rate was increased to 20% in 1996, and no court was asked to rule on the applicability of the tax limitation amendment to gaming tax rates.
ITEM 3.