Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL. Conrail Inc. was incorporated in Pennsylvania on ------- February 12, 1993 and on July 1, 1993 became the holding company of Consolidated Rail Corporation. Consolidated Rail Corporation is Conrail Inc.'s only significant subsidiary and primary asset. Conrail Inc.'s common stock is listed on the New York and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges.
Consolidated Rail Corporation is a Pennsylvania corporation incorporated on February 10, 1976 to acquire, pursuant to the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, the rail properties of many of the railroads in the northeast and midwest region of the United States which had gone bankrupt during the early 1970's, the largest of which was the Penn Central Transportation Company ("Penn Central").
Reports on Form 10-K for years prior to 1993 were filed by Consolidated Rail Corporation, and historic data presented herein and therein reflect the results of Consolidated Rail Corporation for those time periods. Unless otherwise indicated, references to Conrail prior to July 1, 1993 denote Consolidated Rail Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, and references to Conrail after July 1, 1993 denote Conrail Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
PROPOSED MERGER. On October 14, 1996, Conrail, CSX Corporation --------------- ("CSX") and a subsidiary of CSX entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the "Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which Conrail was to be merged with a subsidiary of CSX in a merger-of-equals transaction.
On October 24, 1996, Norfolk Southern Corporation ("Norfolk") commenced an unsolicited tender offer for all outstanding Conrail voting stock at $100 per share in cash. Norfolk has since increased its offer to $115 per share in cash.
On November 20, 1996, CSX concluded its first tender offer and purchased approximately 19.9% of Conrail's outstanding shares for $110 per share.
On December 18, 1996, CSX and Conrail entered into a second amendment to the Merger Agreement (the "Second Amendment") that would, among other things, (i) increase the consideration payable pursuant to the merger, (ii) accelerate the consummation of the merger to immediately following the receipt of applicable shareholder approvals and prior to the Surface Transportation Board ("STB") approval and (iii) extend until December 31, 1998 an exclusivity period during which the Conrail Board agreed not to withdraw or modify its
recommendations of the CSX transactions, approve or recommend any takeover proposal or cause Conrail to enter into any agreement related to any takeover proposal.
On January 13, 1997, Norfolk issued a press release announcing that it would offer to purchase shares representing 9.9% of the outstanding shares for $115 per share, in the event that Conrail shareholders did not approve a proposal to opt out of a Pennsylvania statute (the "Opt Out Proposal") at the meeting of shareholders to be held on January 17, 1997 (the "Special Shareholders Meeting").
On January 17, 1997, Conrail shareholders voted at the Special Shareholders Meeting against the Opt Out Proposal.
On February 4, 1997, the amended Norfolk tender offer expired, and Norfolk subsequently purchased approximately 8.2 million Shares pursuant thereto.
On March 7, 1997, Conrail and CSX entered into a Third Amendment (the "Third Amendment") to the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the Third Amendment, (i) the price per share has been increased from $110 to $115, and the number of shares to be purchased in the tender offer has been increased to all outstanding shares. The tender offer is scheduled to close April 18, 1997 (subject to extension by CSX to June 2, 1997 whether or not the conditions have been satisfied), (ii) the consideration paid per share in the merger for all remaining outstanding shares following consummation of the offer has been increased to $115 in cash and (iii) the conditions to the offer relating to certain provisions of Pennsylvania law becoming inapplicable to Conrail and relating pending governmental actions or proceedings have been deleted.
The Third Amendment also provides that CSX will have sole control over the regulatory approval process and will be free to conduct by itself discussions with other railroads, including Norfolk, relating to competitive issues raised by the CSX transactions, and to enter into any resulting agreement. It is anticipated that CSX and Norfolk will negotiate an appropriate division of Conrail's assets; however, neither the pending CSX tender offer nor the merger is conditioned on CSX's reaching an agreement with Norfolk.
Pursuant to the Third Amendment, three members of Conrail's Board of Directors approved by CSX shall be invited to join the CSX Board of Directors and a transition team will be established, the leadership of which will include senior executive officers of CSX and Conrail to ensure the orderly operation of Conrail during the regulatory approval process and an orderly transition thereafter.
Under the Third Amendment, Conrail and CSX agreed to reduce from December 31, 1998 to December 31, 1997 the period of time during which the Conrail Board is prohibited from (i) withdrawing or modifying, or
publicly proposing to withdraw or modify, its approval or recommendation of the CSX transactions, in a manner adverse to CSX, (ii) approving or recommending, or publicly proposing to approve or recommend, any competing proposal or (iii) causing Conrail to enter into any agreement related to any such competing proposal.
Under the Merger Agreement as amended, Conrail may terminate the Merger Agreement in the event that after June 2, 1997, CSX fails to consummate the tender offer for any reason other than the non- occurrence of any condition to the tender offer. In the event that CSX fails to consummate the tender offer under such circumstances, Conrail will be entitled to exercise any additional remedies it may have.
The full terms and conditions of the CSX and Norfolk offers and Conrail's position with respect to the CSX and Norfolk offers are set forth in documents filed by Conrail with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
RAIL OPERATIONS. Conrail, through its wholly-owned subsidiary --------------- Consolidated Rail Corporation, provides freight transportation services within the northeast and midwest United States. Conrail interchanges freight with other United States and Canadian railroads for transport to destinations within and outside Conrail's service region. Conrail operates no significant line of business other than the freight railroad business and does not provide common carrier passenger or commuter train service.
Conrail serves a heavily industrial region that is marked by dense population centers which constitute a substantial market for consumer durable and non-durable goods, and a market for raw materials used in manufacturing and by electric utilities. Conrail's traffic levels and, as a result, its financial performance are substantially affected by its ability to compete with trucks and other railroads, the economic strength of the industries and metropolitan areas that produce and consume the freight Conrail hauls and the traffic generated by Conrail's connecting railroads. Conrail remains dependent on non-bulk traffic, which tends to generate higher revenues than bulk commodities, but also involves higher costs and is more vulnerable to truck competition.
The Service Group System. Beginning in 1994, Conrail's ------------------------ Marketing and Sales Department and related segments of its Operating Department were organized into four service groups: CORE Service, Intermodal Service, Unit Train Service and Automotive Service. Petrochemicals and Minerals, food and agriculture products, forest and manufactured products, and metals are handled by the CORE Service Group. The Intermodal Service Group handles intermodal trailers and containers. The Unit Train Service Group handles coal and ore traffic. The Automotive Service Group handles automotive parts and finished vehicles. Each of these groups controls the integrated
planning, pricing and operating functions that will enable them to tailor services, develop products and make capital investments directed toward the special requirements of their respective customers.
Revenues for the Service Groups for 1992 through 1996, together with total annual traffic volumes, are set forth in the following tables.
- ---------------------- (1) Petrochemicals and Minerals $ 582 $ 584 $ 603 $ 565 $ 541 Food and Agriculture 335 353 361 351 347 Forest and Mfg. Products 318 329 326 308 315 Metals 307 291 297 290 265 ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Total CORE Srv. Grp. $1,542 $1,557 $1,587 $1,514 $1,468 ====== ====== ====== ====== ======
(2) Revenues for the years 1992 through 1994 have been reclassified to exclude unassigned revenue from Service Group totals to provide more accurate comparisons to the current period.
(3) Includes switching, demurrage and other miscellaneous revenues.
__________________________ (1) Petrochemicals and Minerals 350 358 376 374 360 Food and Agriculture 257 265 289 295 284 Forest and Mfg. Products 290 306 318 309 290 Metals 338 325 338 324 279 ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Total CORE Srv. Grp. 1,235 1,254 1,321 1,302 1,213 ===== ===== ===== ===== =====
CORE Service Group: ------------------
In 1996, revenues and volume for this service group declined 1% and 1.6%, respectively, from 1995. Revenue in each of the business units comprising the CORE Service Group declined in 1996, except in the Metals Business Group which experienced revenue growth of 5.4% over 1995.
Petrochemicals and Minerals: This commodity group consists of a --------------------------- wide variety of commodities, including agricultural and organic chemicals, plastic pellets, soda ash, construction minerals, petroleum products and waste. The majority of traffic is joint-line and the primary flows are between Louisiana and Texas, (as originating sources), and Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania (as destination points). This commodity group's customer base and origin/destination pair mix are both large and diverse, with none occupying a dominant position in terms of Conrail's traffic volume or revenues. Conrail's traffic in this commodity group increased in 1992 and 1993, leveled off in 1994, and declined slightly in 1995 and 1996, with revenue and volume down 0.3% and 2.5% respectively. Revenues from mineral products, which accounted for one-fourth of this group's volume in 1996, declined approximately 5% as the result of several plant closings.
The largest component of this business is chemical traffic, accounting for approximately 44% of the revenue and 38% of the volume in 1996. This traffic includes chlorine, smaller volumes of other hazardous chemicals and non-hazardous substances which, if spilled or released into the atmosphere, could be dangerous and could result in significant liability to Conrail. Under catastrophic circumstances,
such liability could exceed Conrail's $300 million in insurance coverage for such accidents. It is impossible to eliminate the risk of such liability; however, Conrail has not experienced any significant liability as a result of an accident involving chlorine or any other such substance. Furthermore, Conrail has safety procedures designed to prevent the occurrence of such accidents, or limit their impact should they occur, and works in concert with chemical manufacturers to reduce the risks in transporting these commodities, subscribing to the policies and procedures defined under Responsible Care partnerships. The year 1996 marked Conrail's first complete year as a Responsible Care partner.
Increasing regulation by federal, state and local governments of the transportation and handling of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and waste has increased the administrative burden and costs of transporting certain commodities in this group.
Food and Agriculture: This commodity group includes fresh and --------------------- processed food products moving primarily in boxcars, grain, grain products and agricultural chemicals moving in covered hopper and tank cars. Conrail's revenue declined by 5.1% and units declined by 2.8% in 1996 from 1995 levels. In the food commodities area, market share declines of several large customers account for the difference in volume and revenue from 1995 levels. Agriculture volume declined as record grain prices caused domestic users to reduce their use of grain and grain products. The 13.8% revenue decline in grain and grain products is primarily attributable to an increase in grain shippers' use of private cars.
Forest and Manufactured Products: This commodity group includes --------------------------------- paper and wood products moving in boxcars, certain lumber and related products moving on flatcars, and general manufactured commodities moving in boxcars. Paper products account for 57% of 1996 revenue for this group, followed by wood products (30%), and manufactured products (13%). A 5.3% volume decline was partially offset by increases in revenue per unit, which yielded a net revenue decrease of 3.3%. High inventories and product prices drove paper receivers to work off existing inventories, reducing rail volume. Most of the inventory adjustments have taken place and shipments are expected to return to normal for 1997.
Metals: This commodity group includes scrap ferrous products and ------- semi-finished, finished and sheet steel. In 1995, this group experienced decreases in revenue and volume due to increased truck competition and selective price increases on low margin business. In 1996, volume increased 4% and revenues grew 5.4% over 1995. Market share gains from new mini-mills located on Conrail, capacity increases due to the acquisition of new coil cars and aggressive business development activity contributed to the year over year growth.
Intermodal Service Group ------------------------
Conrail continues to be one of the rail industry's leaders in handling intermodal traffic. Volume and revenue increased 7.6% and 6.6%, respectively, in 1996 from 1995. Conrail handled nearly 1.6 million units of intermodal traffic in 1996.
Conrail's intermodal traffic consists of three segments. The first segment is Conrail's parcel/package traffic, which principally involves shipments for the U.S. Postal Service, United Parcel Service and less-than-truck-load companies. Revenue in this segment increased by 7.3% in 1996.
The second segment is domestic traffic, which includes a variety of commodities and customers. Revenue in this segment increased by 7.8% in 1996. Traffic from major truckload companies continued to increase, as did traffic from intermodal marketing companies (or third party freight consolidators and brokers).
International container traffic constitutes the third segment of Conrail's intermodal traffic. International container traffic chiefly involves goods produced in the Pacific Basin and shipped by rail from west coast ports to east coast markets. Conrail and its western railroad connections are able to participate in this traffic because they have established superior transit time compared with the all- water route through the Panama Canal. Conrail also participates in traffic moving through Atlantic ports for import and export trade with European and Mediterranean markets. Revenue from Conrail's international intermodal traffic increased 4.6% in 1996.
In 1996, Conrail opened a new intermodal terminal in Pittsburgh, PA, initiated service from the Ameriport terminal in Philadelphia and reopened its intermodal terminal in Buffalo.
Unit Train Service Group ------------------------
In 1996, revenues for this service group increased by approximately 1.1%, despite no increase in traffic volume.
Utility coal traffic, which makes up the majority of Conrail's coal business, increased 10.4% with a 13.5% increase in revenue in 1996. Utility coal moves from mines located on and off Conrail's system to electric utilities located on Conrail. Annual traffic volumes fluctuate with the inventory practices of the electric utilities, their use of alternative sources of energy and the weather. The 1996 increase reflects a very cold winter with lower utilization of nuclear units in Conrail's service area.
The utility industry is undergoing a process of deregulation which is changing the competitive environment in this key Conrail
market. Deregulation will increase the downward pressure on utility coal transportation rates and increase service requirements as utilities strive to reduce their costs to remain competitive. Deregulation, coupled with more stringent sulfur dioxide emission limits, should help Conrail's lower cost and lower sulfur coal sources in southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia to remain competitive. Shipments of Conrail-served coal from these areas increased 7.0% in 1996 over 1995.
Export, industrial/cogeneration and metallurgical coal represent the three remaining segments of Conrail's coal traffic, with export coal volumes being one-third greater than industrial/cogeneration volumes and more than twice as great as metallurgical coal volumes.
Export coal traffic volume declined 6% in 1996, after having increased 58% in 1995, due to strong domestic demand for coal which reduced the amount of coal available for the export market.
Conrail's traffic volume and revenue for industrial/cogeneration coal was essentially unchanged from 1995.
Conrail's traffic volume and revenue from metallurgical coal continues to decline, having decreased 38% in 1996 after a decline of 9% in 1995. Revenue in 1996 was down approximately 44%. The large decline in 1996 volume and revenue was due to the loss of a significant customer in the first half of the year. Sixty percent of this business was recovered in June of 1996, although at significantly lower rates.
Conrail serves directly, or via short line switching carriers, many of the nation's largest active integrated steel production facilities. Although a significant portion of the active domestic steel industry is along the Cleveland-Chicago corridor on Conrail's system, the traditional domestic steel industry (using integrated steel production facilities) continues to eliminate inefficient production capacity, which in past years has adversely affected the volume of raw materials for steel production handled by Conrail, and could continue to do so. Volume in this segment is expected to continue to decline in 1997. This trend is continuing as iron ore and coke volume declined 12% in 1996, while revenues declined 3.5%.
Automotive Service Group ------------------------
Conrail's Automotive Service Group experienced a slight decrease in volume and revenue in 1996, despite continued slow growth in North American Light Vehicle Production, which increased 1% in 1996 over 1995. As a whole, the Automotive Service Group's revenues decreased 1.1%. Finished vehicles revenue increased 1%, and Autoparts experienced a 4% revenue reduction.
General Motors' strike in the Fall of 1996 was the major factor contributing to the group's overall decline in volume and revenue, with a particularly negative impact on the autoparts business.
Continued strong production by the foreign-based domestic manufacturers, and the shift of import traffic from East coast ports to cross-country landbridge shipments, resulted in an increase in finished vehicles traffic, despite the mid-year closing of General Motors' Tarrytown, NY plant and Chrysler's Newark, DE plant.
Certain Statistics. The following tables provide various ------------------ measurements relating to Conrail's rail operations from 1992 through 1996:
(1) The 1996 operating ratio (operating expenses as a percent of revenues) includes the effect of a one-time $135 million charge for non-union voluntary separation programs and related losses on certain non-cancelable leases. Without this charge, Conrail's operating ratio would have been 79.7%. See Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Without the $285 million special charge in 1995, Conrail's operating ratio would have been 79.9%. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. Without the $84 million special charge in 1994, Conrail's operating ratio would have been 81.5%. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report.
(2) Excluding subsidiaries, except Consolidated Rail Corporation.
(3) Locomotive weight not included.
(1) Excluding subsidiaries, except Consolidated Rail Corporation.
COMPETITION. Conrail's rail services face significant ----------- competition from trucks, from other railroads, and from the availability of the same or substitute goods produced at points not served by Conrail. The trucking industry is especially competitive in Conrail's service area because, among other reasons, freight in this region is moved shorter distances than in the West, and the cost characteristics of the railroad and trucking industries generally make trucks more competitive over shorter distances.
Price and service competition from trucks, while present for all commodities, is especially evident in the movement of intermodal freight, auto parts, and finished steel. Competition from trucks has been increased by the passage of legislation removing certain barriers to entry into the trucking business and allowing the use of wider, longer, and heavier trailers and multiple trailer combinations. Larger trailers and multiple trailer combinations have substantially increased productivity in the trucking industry, and any future legislation permitting further increases in truck capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on the competitiveness of railroads.
Conrail is also subject to competition from other railroads. In most of Conrail's service territory, one or more other railroads can serve customers directly. Elsewhere, the ability to provide joint service with the many short lines whose operations have proliferated throughout the east, and/or in partnership with trucks (for pick-up, delivery, and draying services) allows rail competitors whose tracks do not reach given customers or points to constrain Conrail prices and to compete effectively for movement of the freight. In addition, recent changes in the nature of rail service offerings and in technology have expanded the scope of rail service beyond the physical limitations of lines, which has resulted in increased railroad competition.
An important influence on Conrail's competitive position is regulation by the Federal government. Prior to 1980, regulation significantly inhibited the ability of railroads to respond to increasing customer demands, overall logistics needs, and changing transportation markets. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980 ("Staggers Act") substantially reduced the restrictions of regulation. In particular, railroads were given more opportunity to reduce costs and more freedom to adjust prices and service offerings, which enabled them to compete more effectively. Under the Staggers Act, the former Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC") deregulated a significant amount of railroad traffic, including intermodal and most boxcar traffic, finished vehicles and numerous other commodities moving in other types of equipment.
The Staggers Act further enhanced railroads' competitive options by permitting the use of railroad-shipper contracts for traffic still regulated, under which the parties can negotiate customer-specific prices, service standards and terms. These contracts generally
provide prices lower than tariff rates and many do not guarantee that any given amount of freight will be shipped during their term. As of December 31, 1996, Conrail was a party to 3,362 such contracts for regulated traffic, which Conrail estimates accounted for 29% of its line-haul revenues in 1996. Although some contracts have a term longer than one year, most contracts are for one year or less. The majority of Conrail's multi-year contracts are subject to cost-related adjustments that provide for flat percentage increases. The cost- based provisions in certain of these contracts are tied to indices formerly under the jurisdiction of the ICC. Action to adjust these indices for productivity gains by the railroads has had an adverse impact on Conrail's ability to recover costs under such contracts, which accounted for less than 2% of Conrail's line haul revenues in 1996.
Effective January 1, 1996, pursuant to the ICC Termination Act of 1995, the authority of the ICC to regulate railroads was transferred to the Department of Transportation ("DOT") to be administered by the Surface Transportation Board. The prior regulatory scheme remains substantially intact, with the following significant changes: (1) access to freight railroad tracks by rail operators (both freight and passenger) operating on behalf of local governmental authorities has been eased; (2) some types of abandonments may take appreciably longer; (3) tariffs and most contracts will no longer be filed (other mechanisms are required for advising customers of rates and rate changes); (4) minimum rate levels will no longer be regulated; and (5) DOT will not regulate railroad issuances of securities or assumptions of debt. Other changes will require development of new regulations and/or of a body of precedent before their impact can be fully assessed.
PROPERTY. Conrail directly holds no real property. The only -------- significant property holdings are those of Consolidated Rail Corporation.
As of December 31, 1996, Consolidated Rail Corporation (excluding its subsidiaries) maintained 16,970 miles of track including track for crossovers, turnouts, second main, other main, passing and switch track, on its 10,543 mile route system. Of total route miles, 8,459 are owned, 87 are leased or operated under contract and 1,997 are operated under trackage rights, including approximately 300 miles operated pursuant to an easement over Amtrak's Northeast Corridor. As of December 31, 1996, virtually all track over which at least 10 million gross tons moved annually (5,923 track miles) was heavy-weight rail of at least 127 pounds per yard, and 100% of such track had continuous welded rail. Continuous welded rail reduces track maintenance costs and, in general, permits trains to travel at higher speeds. As of December 31, 1996, Conrail had 8,804 miles of continuous welded rail on track it maintained.
As of December 31, 1996, 83% of the 3,814 track miles maintained for fast freight traffic had a maximum operating speed of 50 MPH or more, and 70% had a maximum operating speed of at least 60 MPH. As of December 31, 1996, approximately 96% of the track over which at least 10 million gross tons moved annually was governed by automatic signal systems. In all, as of December 31, 1996, 7,656 miles of track were controlled by automatic signal systems.
Conrail is engaged in an ongoing process to identify certain under-utilized rail lines and other underperforming assets to avoid future capital costs and to improve its return on assets. Conrail recorded a $285 million charge in 1995 to cover the expected losses upon disposition of approximately 1,800 miles of lines and other assets not required to support Conrail's service. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The following table indicates the number of locomotives and freight cars owned (or subject to capitalized leases) and includes 21,435 freight cars used by Conrail under operating leases. These total figures are as of December 31, 1996, and include stored or surplus units, but exclude subsidiaries other than Consolidated Rail Corporation, which have an immaterial number of locomotives and freight cars:
- ----------------- (1) Serviceable locomotives not required for current operations on December 31, 1996.
(2) Freight cars which did not move during the seven days immediately preceding December 31, 1996 and which were available for loading. The number of surplus freight cars during 1996 fluctuated due to variations in traffic and fleet adjustments.
On December 31, 1996, the average age of Conrail's road locomotives, not including stored-serviceable units, was 11.1 years. The average age of the total locomotive fleet was 15.6 years, and the average age of the total freight car fleet was 22 years.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. The following tables provide information -------------------- concerning capital expenditures from 1992 through 1996:
(1) Includes communications and signals, bridges and tunnels, computers and telecommunications, and other improvements.
EMPLOYEES AND LABOR. Including subsidiaries, Conrail's average ------------------- number of employees for 1996 was 21,280. Consolidated Rail Corporation (excluding subsidiaries) averaged 20,761 employees in 1996, 87% of whom are represented by a total of 14 labor organizations and are covered by 22 separate collective bargaining agreements.
Conrail has concluded collective bargaining agreements with organizations representing approximately 66% of its total employees. These agreements contain moratorium clauses providing that they may
not be reopened prior to January 1, 2000. However, certain issues remain outstanding with one of the above-mentioned organizations, the Transportation Communications International Union, representing approximately 2,250 Conrail employees. The parties are currently in mediation under the auspices of the National Mediation Board (NMB). In addition, the United Transportation Union, which represents approximately 4,100 Conrail employees, contends that certain issues remain outstanding. The Company disputes this contention and the parties are in mediation.
Conrail is currently in negotiations with organizations representing approximately 22% of its employees. The negotiations with the largest of these organizations, a coalition of the Brotherhood of Railroad Carmen and the Transport Workers Union, are currently in mediation. The outcome of these negotiations cannot be predicted at this time. If the NMB eventually concludes that its efforts to resolve the dispute will not be successful, it will proffer binding arbitration. If either side refuses to arbitrate, there is a 30-day "cooling-off" period during which the NMB may make a finding that the dispute threatens "substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive any section of the country of essential transportation service." Such finding is then presented to the President of the United States who has the option of appointing an Emergency Board to investigate the dispute. If the President does not appoint an Emergency Board, the parties are free to resort to self help at the conclusion of the above-mentioned cooling-off period.
If the President does appoint an Emergency Board, the Board has 30 days to investigate the dispute and report its findings. The Emergency Board's findings are non-binding. Although the parties must maintain the status quo for a period of 30 days following the issuance of the Board's report, any party which rejects the Board's findings may thereafter resort to self help. In the event of a strike, Congress has the power to resolve the dispute by enacting legislation, including legislation imposing a labor contract in accordance with the findings of the Emergency Board.
In Conrail's negotiations with four other organizations representing approximately 4% of its employees, the parties have not invoked mediation.
Under a decision by the United States Supreme Court on April 28, 1987, rail unions have the right, under the Railway Labor Act and other federal laws, to engage in secondary picketing against any railroad. As a result, a labor dispute between one railroad and a union can cause a strike to spread to any other railroad, or to all other railroads, whether or not the union has a collective bargaining agreement or a dispute with such other railroads. There is also the potential that railroads may be subject to secondary picketing in the event of a strike in the airline industry, which, like the railroad industry, is subject to the Railway Labor Act.
Should Conrail or its subsidiaries be the subject of a strike or secondary picketing, Conrail's rail operations could be stopped or severely curtailed.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION. Conrail is subject to environmental, --------------------- safety, and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, and its rail operations are also regulated by the DOT, the Federal Railroad Administration ("FRA"), state Departments of Transportation and some state and local regulatory agencies.
The DOT has jurisdiction over, among other things, rates charged for certain traffic movements, service levels and freight car rents. It also has jurisdiction over the situations and terms under which one railroad may gain access to another railroad's traffic or facilities, extension or abandonment of rail lines, consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control of rail common carriers and of other carriers by rail common carriers, and labor protection provisions in connection with the foregoing.
Under the Staggers Act, federal regulation of rates and services was reduced. The regulatory scheme, now administered by the Surface Transportation Board, continues the ICC's prior deregulation of rates for intermodal traffic, most boxcar traffic and a series of miscellaneous commodities, including steel and automobiles. In addition, railroads are free to negotiate contracts with shippers setting rates, service standards and the terms for movements of other kinds of traffic. As a result, railroads have greater flexibility in adjusting rates and services to meet revenue needs and competitive conditions. For further discussion of the abolition of the ICC and the effect of the transfer of its regulatory authority to DOT, see "Competition."
The FRA has jurisdiction over safety and railroad equipment standards.
Conrail's rail operations are also subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. In addition to being involved as a potentially responsible party at numerous Superfund sites (see Item 3